                            DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                               HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND




                                                                               AFSPCGM13-1

                                                                                20 March 2013

MEMORANDUM FOR SEE DISTRIBUTION

FROM: HQ AFSPC/A3
      150 Vandenberg St Ste 1105
      Peterson AFB CO 80914-4170

SUBJECT: AFSPC Guidance Memorandum (GM) 13-1, Space Operations Crew Force
         Management, Training, Standardization and Evaluation

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

1. This GM immediately implements space operations crew force management, training,
standardization and evaluation policy. The GM combines and revises policy prescribed by Air
Force Space Command Instruction (AFSPCI) 10-1202, Crew Operations, and AFSPCI 36-2202
Volume 1, 14 AF Mission Ready Training, Evaluation and Standardization Programs. To the
extent its direction is inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information herein
prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. In advance of publication of the new 13-series AFSPCI titled Space Operations Crew Force
Management, Training, Standardization and Evaluation, the attachment to this memorandum
provides AFSPC guidance that is effective immediately; applicable units have 180 days to
develop supplemental guidance and transition toward mandatory compliance with this GM.
During the transition period, units must either comply with instructions within AFSPCI 10-
1202/AFSPCI 36-2202V1 or the instructions prescribed by this GM. The new 13-series AFSPCI
will be published after the transition period. At such time, compliance with the AFSPCI will be
mandatory, superseding AFSPCI 10-1202 and AFSPCI 36-2202V1.

3. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this Memorandum are
maintained IAW AF Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS).




                               GUARDIANS OF THE HIGH FRONTIER
4. This memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon release of an Air Force publication incorporating the guidance, whichever
is earlier.




                                                JACK WEINSTEIN
                                                Major General, USAF
                                                Director of Air, Space and
                                                 Cyberspace Operations
Attachment 1
Distribution:
14 AF/A3
AFRC/A3
NGB/A3
21 SW/CC
50 SW/CC
460 SW/CC
30 SW/CC
45 SW/CC
HQ AFSPC/IG
                                          Attachment 1

               SPACE OPERATIONS CREW FORCE MANAGEMENT,
            TRAINING, STANDARDIZATION AND EVALUATION POLICY

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-12, Space, Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 10-1201, Space Operations, AFPD 10-2, Readiness, AFPD 36-26, Total Force
Development, AFI 36-2616, Trained Personnel Requirements, and AFI 36-2201, Air Force
Training Program. Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 36-2234, Instructional System Development,
Air Force Handbook (AFH) 36-2235 Vol 1 through 12, Information for Designers of
Instructional Systems, and AFMAN 36-2236, Guidebook for Air Force Instructors, are used to
develop training and evaluation programs for space operations duties. This directive defines
roles, responsibilities, and minimum requirements for establishing and sustaining 14th Air Force
(14 AF) space operations crew force readiness. It establishes policies that apply to the day-to-day
management of space operations, to include operations training, standardization and evaluation
programs. It applies to applicable 13SXX, 1C6XX, 1NXX, Department of Defense (DoD)
civilian personnel, civilian contractors (as applicable per contract documentation), foreign
nationals (as applicable per international agreement), and other selected personnel assigned to
Air Force Space Command operations duties. This instruction also applies to Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units performing AFSPC operations
missions. This instruction does not apply to the 614th Air and Space Operations Center (AOC),
or the alternate or geographically separated organizations conducting Space AOC missions.
These organizations will instead follow AFI 13-1AOC volumes. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate chain of command. Organizations at any level may supplement this
instruction. All supplements will be coordinated through HQ AFSPC/A3T prior to publication.
Process supplements as shown in AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It modifies and
combines information previously contained in AFSPCI 10-1202, Crew Operations and AFSPCI
36-2202V1, 14 AF Mission Ready Training, Evaluation and Standardization Programs.

Chapter 1—OVERVIEW AND RESPONSIBILITIES

Chapter 2—STANDARDIZATION, OPERATIONALIZATION, AND
          NORMALIZATION

Chapter 3—PLANS, CERTIFICATIONS AND CREW FORCE MANAGEMENT

Chapter 4—MISSION READY (MR)/COMBAT MISSION READY (CMR) TRAINING
          REQUIREMENTS
Chapter 5—MR/CMR EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS

Chapter 6—DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS

Chapter 7—MOBILE/DEPLOYABLE UNIT MR/CMR REQUIREMENTS

Chapter 8—CHANGES, WAIVERS AND CLARIFICATIONS

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Attachment 2—TRAINING AND EVALUATION PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
             (TEPS)

Attachment 3—AIR FORCE PROFICIENCY CODES

Attachment 4— MR/CMR DUTY POSITIONS (BY UNIT)

Attachment 5—CREW FORCE MANAGEMENT REPORTS
                                           Chapter 1

                          OVERVIEW AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Overview. Mission success depends upon our readiness to perform assigned tasks satisfying
Combatant Commander’s (CCDR) requested capabilities. This directive defines roles,
responsibilities and minimum requirements for establishing and sustaining space operations crew
force readiness in support of CCDR requirements. It establishes policies that apply to the day-to-
day management of space operations, to include crew force management, operations training,
standardization and evaluation programs. The goal of this revised instruction is to reduce
replication found in prior AFSPC guidance, as well as limit unit compliance requirements
consistent with AF-level requirements and those deemed necessary to ensure mission success.

1.2. Scope.

   1.2.1. Tactical Level Competencies. The intent of this directive is to establish individual and
   unit training programs that build tactical level competencies in order to meet the mission
   requirements for which the unit was organized and designed. Airmen at this level master
   their core duty skills, develop experiences in applying those skills and begin to acquire the
   knowledge and experience that will produce the qualities essential to effective leadership.
   Individuals and teams at the tactical level perform specific tasks that, in the aggregate,
   contribute to the execution of operations at the operational level. See AFDD1-1, Leadership
   and Force Development, for further information on training and education at the tactical,
   operational and strategic levels.

   1.2.2. Operations and Support Functions. Guidance in this directive pertains to personnel
   who conduct space operations. According to AFI 10-1201, Space Operations, space
   operations include tactical warning and attack assessment, space surveillance, spacelift and
   range operations, satellite control, space control and space-based combat support operations.
   Operations are those functions that employ military capabilities. Operations personnel are
   identified by the Air Force personnel classification system. This classification system is used
   to identify valid manpower requirements, to identify and describe each Air Force
   occupational specialty, to ensure minimum prerequisite standards are set for each specialty
   and to ensure qualified individuals are placed into each specialty. The Operations Career
   Area encompasses utilization fields that “directly employ weapon and supporting systems to
   accomplish the primary operational mission of the Air Force” (AF Officer Classification
   Directory). For space operations, these include 13SXX, 1C6XX, 1NXXX and other
   personnel approved by HQ AFSPC/A3 who are responsible for completing the unit’s real-
   time operational mission. Combat Support is the essential capabilities, functions, activities
   and tasks necessary to create and sustain air and space forces. Combat support and operations
   together create combat capability. Personnel assigned to various support functions should
   refer to other AF and AFSPC publications associated with their functional areas, for
   example, 13-series (Nuclear, Space, Missile, Command and Control), 14-series
   (Intelligence), 20-series (Logistics), 21-series (Maintenance), 33-series (Communications and
   Information) and 36-series (Personnel).
1.3. Responsibilities. Commanders at every level are responsible for ensuring the personnel and
organizations under their command are qualified and certified to perform their mission essential
tasks (METs) to established competency and proficiency standards. METs are derived by
commanders from mission analysis. Unit METs and training programs are developed to support
lesson-learned feedback on CCDR operational requirements, priorities and Joint Mission
Essential Task Lists (JMETs). See CJCSI 3500.01, Joint Training Policy, for additional Service
Component Commander Responsibilities.

   1.3.1. HQ AFSPC:

       1.3.1.1. The Directorate of Air, Space and Cyberspace Operations (HQ AFSPC/A3):

           1.3.1.1.1. Develops policy and guidance for space operations and provides assistance
           on issues that pertain to interpretation and compliance when resolution is beyond the
           scope or resources of the Numbered Air Force (NAF).

           1.3.1.1.2. Ensures Trained Personnel Requirements are established and adjusted to
           meet crew force requirements. Forwards requirements to HQ USAF Career Field
           Managers (CFMs) for incorporation in planning processes.

           1.3.1.1.3. Establishes and manages education and training requirements for
           Undergraduate Space Training (UST), Space 200, Space 300, as well as other
           advance training and education requirements IAW AFSPCI 36-221, Space Advanced
           Training and Education, and AFI 36-3701, Space Professional Development
           Program.

           1.3.1.1.4. Appoints 13SXX Major Command (MAJCOM) Functional Manager
           (MFM) and ensures MFM duties are conducted IAW AFI 36-2201, Air Force
           Training Program.

           1.3.1.1.5. Appoints 1C6XX MFM and ensures MFM duties are conducted IAW
           AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.

           1.3.1.1.6. Authorizes and/or revokes MR/CMR positions, as necessary.

           1.3.1.1.7. Approves Assignment Availability Code (AAC) 55 waivers for periods
           greater than 12 months. See para. 3.7. for further information.

           1.3.1.1.8. Oversees management of MAJCOM operations training, evaluation and
           standardization programs.

           1.3.1.1.9. HQ AFSPC/A3T approves waiver requests for attendance at applicable
           Initial Qualification Training (IQT) courses. See chapter 8 for further information.

           1.3.1.1.10. Approves requests for major changes to formal Air Education and
           Training Command (AETC) courses affecting operations. Forwards change requests
       to applicable HQ USAF Functional Managers IAW AFI 36-2251, Management of
       Air Force Training Systems and AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program. See
       AFSPCI 36-283, Space Training System Management, for additional information.

       1.3.1.1.11. Monitors AETC training and evaluation programs that support AFSPC
       operations.

       1.3.1.1.12. Participates in Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) as requested by 14 AF/CC or
       subordinate units.

       1.3.1.1.13. Coordinates with NGB/A3 and HQ AFRC/A3 on issues affecting training,
       evaluation, operations (i.e. Mobilization, Force Development, etc.) for missions
       supported by NGB and AFRC.

       1.3.1.1.14. Collaborates with AFSPC IG to develop inspection criteria and scenario
       development to inspect unit readiness.

   1.3.1.2. HQ AFSPC Directorate of Safety (SE). Coordinates on waiver requests to this
   instruction which affect mission flight control operations. Participates in Staff Assistance
   Visits (SAV) as requested by subordinate units.

   1.3.1.3. HQ AFSPC Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and Services (A1):

       1.3.1.3.1. Establishes operations training and standardization/evaluation organization
       structure and manpower requirements IAW AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization,
       AFI 38-201, Management of Manpower Requirements and Authorizations,
       applicable Air Force Manpower Standards and their supplements.

       1.3.1.3.2. Coordinates with NGB/A1 and HQ AFRC/A1 on manpower and personnel
       issues affecting missions supported by NGB and AFRC.

1.3.2. 14 AF (note: when a unit is a Direct Reporting Unit to the MAJCOM, the unit assumes
responsibilities of the NAF, Wing and Group):

   1.3.2.1. Implements policies and requirements established by applicable DoD, AF and
   AFSPC directives and instructions. Supplements for local procedures as required.

   1.3.2.2. Oversees subordinate unit operational activities and provide assistance on
   compliance issues when resolution is beyond subordinate units’ scope or resources.

   1.3.2.3. Provides training requirements in response to data calls when requested by HQ
   AFSPC. This includes data required by MFMs to establish Trained Personnel
   Requirements IAW AFI 36-2616, Trained Personnel Requirements.
   1.3.2.4. Coordinates and sends major formal course change requests to HQ AFSPC/A3T
   for processing. See AFSPCI 36-283, Space Training System Management, for additional
   information.

   1.3.2.5. Approves and publishes MR/CMR TEPS for all subordinate units. Provides
   MR/CMR TEPS changes to HQ AFSPC/A3T prior to implementation. See attachment 2
   for TEPS guidance.

   1.3.2.6. Monitors and assesses unit mission readiness.

   1.3.2.7. Approves AAC 55 waivers for periods of 7-12 months. See para. 3.7. for further
   information.

   1.3.2.8. Crew Force Management Reports. The management goal is to maximize crew
   force experience while sustaining staff manning at an adequate level for unit programs.
   The following crew force management reports are required for AFSPC to provide
   adequate managerial oversight of MR/CMR crew force utilization. 14 AF will:

      1.3.2.8.1. Submit a consolidated semi-annual report to HQ AFSPC/A3TT (due 45
      days after the end of the 1st and 3rd quarters) reflecting all crew members granted
      AAC 55 waivers and instances where AFPC has broken AAC 55 for an Air Force-
      level PCS requirement. See attachment 5 for report format.

      1.3.2.8.2. Submit a consolidated semi-annual MR/CMR report to HQ AFSPC/A3TT
      (due 45 days after the end of the 1st and 3rd quarters) reflecting current MR/CMR
      personnel occupying designated MR/CMR positions as well as all MR/CMR certified
      personnel currently filling non-MR/CMR designated positions. See attachment 5 for
      report format. MR/CMR positions are identified in attachment 4.

   1.3.2.9. Participates in SAVs as directed by NAF/CC. 14 AF/A3V may participate in unit
   requested SAVs as schedule allows. Units requesting a SAV will fund all expenses.

   1.3.2.10. Publishes and maintain operational-level training objectives to support training
   events IAW AFSPCI 10-415, Weapons and Tactics Program.

   1.3.2.11. Establishes advanced training requirements for its operational and tactical level
   units and communicate those requirements to the USAF Warfare Center (USAFWC).
   Work closely with USAFWC in the planning and execution of advanced training events.

   1.3.2.12. Coordinates with applicable NAFs and subordinate units at AFRC and NGB, as
   needed.

1.3.3. Wings, Groups, Squadrons/Detachments.

   1.3.3.1. Certifying Official. The first operational commander in the member’s chain of
   command acts as the MR/CMR certifying official and is responsible for determining
corrective action or training, any follow-on evaluation requirements and any crew force
management actions for each evaluation and for substandard performance while not
under evaluation. This is typically the Operations Group Commander, the Operational
Support Squadron Commander, the Operations Squadron Commander, or the Detachment
Commander. The Commander may delegate this authority to his/her Deputy Commander
or Operations Officer. No further delegation is authorized.

1.3.3.2. Wing commanders approve AAC 55 waivers for periods of 1-6 months. See
para. 3.7. for further information.

1.3.3.3. Collect and submit AAC 55 and MR/CMR data needed for NAF reporting.

1.3.3.4. For units with MR/CMR personnel, ensure Operations Officers, Operations
Flight Commanders, personnel assigned to Weapons and Tactics Shops, Chief(s) of
Stan/Eval, Chief(s) of Training and MR/CMR Instructors/Evaluators maintain MR/CMR
certification (note: this does not apply to units without MR/CMR personnel; OSS chiefs
of training and OG Chiefs of Stan/Eval are optional unless also certified as MR/CMR
instructors or evaluators).

1.3.3.5. Develop guidance, at the appropriate level, that covers the following areas:
Standardization, Operationalization and Normalization; Plans, Certifications and Crew
Force Management; Mission Ready/Combat Mission Ready Training Requirements;
MR/CMR Evaluation Requirements; Documentation Requirements; Deployed/Mobile
Unit Requirements (as applicable).

1.3.3.6. Develop and administer instructor/evaluator training and certification programs,
with consideration given to recurring training requirements. At a minimum, instructors
and evaluators responsible for MR/CMR training/evaluation must be initially trained in
AF Instructional System Development (ISD) processes and the requirements of this
instruction. Trainers/certifiers administering AF on-the-job training (OJT) and
specialized technical certification programs (see para 3.3) must comply with
requirements of AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, to include completion of the
AF Training Course (AFTC).

1.3.3.7. Develop and implement a debrief process and ensure incorporation of Weapons
and Tactics Programs into unit training and evaluation programs IAW AFSPCI 10-415,
Weapons and Tactics Program.

1.3.3.8. Review all new or modified systems, publications, procedures and processes for
impacts on operations. Ensure proper documentation is accurate and approved prior to
implementation. Ensure applicable training and evaluation products/materials are
accurate and approved prior to implementation. Ensure applicable training, evaluation
activities and certifications are complete and documented prior to implementation. See
AFSPCI 10-604, Space Operations Weapon System Management, for further
information.
       1.3.3.9. Ensure training and evaluation activities and products are developed and
       administered IAW this instruction and the AF ISD process as described in AFMAN 36-
       2234, Instructional System Development, applicable volumes of AFH 36-2235,
       Information for Designers of Instructional Systems and AFMAN 35-2236, Guidebook
       for Air Force Instructors.

       1.3.3.10. Maintain training, evaluation and certification documentation IAW chapter 6 of
       this instruction.

       1.3.3.11. Crew/Duty Scheduling. Units will develop crew/duty schedules to effectively
       manage personnel resources. Units will maintain current schedules necessary to manage
       future activities. In order to reduce duplicative documentation requirements, schedules
       need not be updated or maintained to reflect events that have already occurred. Unless
       directed by Group, Squadron or Detachment Commanders, schedules will not be updated
       or maintained as a record of past activities. Operational logs will be maintained to
       document past operational activities IAW para 3.4.

1.3.4. Individuals:

   1.3.4.1. Maintain required qualification and proficiency and adhere to system operations
   technical data or operating procedures.

   1.3.4.2. Notify supervisors when they or other crew members may be experiencing an
   adverse reaction or a physical, medical or mental condition that may prevent mission
   accomplishment, cause mission degradation or endanger personnel safety.

   1.3.4.3. Take necessary actions to ensure space operations procedures, training or evaluation
   materials are current and accurate. Submit recommended changes, as needed.

   1.3.4.4. Acknowledge and document qualifications for each applicable duty position and task
   upon completion of training. Documentation serves as an official certification of proficiency,
   certifying the individual is accountable for task performance IAW the governing instructions
   and technical references.
                                            Chapter 2

      STANDARDIZATION, OPERATIONALIZATION, AND NORMALIZATION

2.1. Standardization. The goal of the AF standardization program is to obtain “the highest
practical level of standardization” (AFPD 60-1) commensurate with the AF missions.
Standardization is the process by which the DoD achieves the closest practicable cooperation
among the Services and Defense agencies for the most efficient use of research, development
and production resources and agrees to adopt on the broadest possible basis the use of: common
or compatible operational, administrative and logistic procedures; common or compatible
technical procedures and criteria; common, compatible, or interchangeable supplies,
components, weapons, or equipment; and common or compatible tactical doctrine with
corresponding organizational compatibility (CJCSI 2700.01).

2.2. In order to gain efficiencies and reduce operations and training costs, units will standardize
operational concepts, processes, procedures, training and evaluation programs to the extent
practical. Requirements and standards must be limited to that required to efficiently and
effectively enable mission success. Units will ensure the following standardization requirements
are met:

   2.2.1. Commanders and managers at all levels must ensure the personnel and organizations
   under their cognizance are qualified and certified to perform to established competency and
   proficiency standards. Training objectives must be developed and defined in terms of
   conditions, required behavior and standards of acceptable performance. See attachment 2 for
   additional TEPS guidance.

   2.2.2. Units will use ISD to develop training systems, by following guidance found in
   AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development, AFMAN 36-2236, Guidebook for
   Air Force Instructors and applicable volumes of AFH 36-2235, Information for Designers
   of Instructional Systems. Plans of instruction, plans of evaluation, performance tests and
   written tests are necessary ISD products for use in training. While the AF allows flexibility
   regarding specific formats and designs for these products, units will use the above manuals
   and handbooks to develop the necessary training/evaluation products. Units will ensure plans
   are developed and used to guide training and evaluation activities. Moreover, units will
   ensure performance and written tests are designed such that they measure what is intended
   each time they are administered.

   2.2.3. It is DoD policy that training is timely, effective and conducted in a safe manner to the
   maximum extent possible. It is also DoD policy that training capabilities be based on a DoD
   training architecture and an open, netcentric, interoperable standard (DoDD 1322.18). To
   facilitate this requirement the Standard Space Trainer (SST) was developed as a common
   training platform directed by AFSPC Commander for all MR/CMR space training systems.
   In order to enhance standardization and safety, as well as maximize investment in simulation
   capability, units with a fielded SST simulation capability shall conduct MR/CMR training
   and evaluation performance tests on the SST-based simulation capability to the maximum
   extent possible.
       2.2.3.1. Non-SST simulation capability, part task trainers and other training devices may
       also be used in an off-line environment when SST-based capability is not fielded or does
       not sufficiently meet all training needs.

       2.2.3.2. Off-line training/evaluation environment. Students and evaluatees must have
       training and evaluation environments that safely allow mistakes to occur in order to
       facilitate learning. Units will make every effort to maximize use of off-line
       training/simulation devices for training and evaluation activities to minimize the impact
       of training and evaluation upon the real-world operational environment. Off-line
       training/simulation devices are those that are physically and electronically separated from
       operational systems. All processing for the simulation is conducted on
       computers/equipment separate from the operational system. The simulator/training device
       may connect to a dedicated training network to support AF distributed training
       requirements.

       2.2.3.3. This policy does not preclude the use of operational systems for real-world task
       observation necessary for OJT, evaluation or exercise events, where appropriate. Prior to
       using operational systems for training, evaluation or exercise events, units will ensure
       processes and procedures are developed to preclude simulated data/events from
       impacting the operational environment or being erroneously confused with or considered
       real-world data/events.

       2.2.3.4. Units are encouraged to blend live activity with virtual and constructive
       simulations using the Distributed Mission Operations-Space (DMO-S) and/or Space Test
       and Training Range (STTR) capability, as needed, to efficiently achieve unit training and
       exercise objectives.

2.3. Operationalization and Normalization. The AF “is focused on operationalizing space,
which requires integration and normalization” (AFDD 3-14). This involves the transfer of
maturing space capabilities from the realm of research and development to operations, with
capability requirements being shaped by operators. It includes integrating space capabilities into
all phases of military planning and operations. In doing so, units must seek “to integrate space
capabilities and normalize space operations with traditional processes” (AFDD 3-14). Personnel
responsible for organize, train and equip functions will continue to operationalize and normalize
space capabilities to ensure the same level of rigor which has served the Air Force well in the
domain of air operations. This includes integration and normalization of space training
simulation capabilities and training system management congruent with well-defined AF
processes and policies, such as:

   2.3.1. Coincident development and concurrency of the training system throughout the life of
   the prime mission system.

   2.3.2. Ensure the training system has the same visibility, funding and documentation priority
   as the prime mission system it supports.
   2.3.3. Support for simulators and training devices and Distributed Mission Operations
   (DMO) capabilities as integral parts of an overall training system.

   2.3.4. Ensure training systems for prime mission systems or equipment are available and
   DMO capable (when applicable) prior to the fielding of the parent system.

   2.3.5. Fund training system modifications and DMO capabilities (when applicable) as prime
   mission systems are modified or updated, to ensure training systems remain concurrent with
   systems in the field.

2.4. Technical Data. Operational systems and weapon systems will not be operated without
validated and verified technical data or operations procedures. Once technical data or operational
checklists are published, operators will use these technical data/checklists at all times (or as
specified in the technical data) when operating the systems. Use of Temporary Procedures (TPs)
described in para. 2.6. will not be used for defense systems with formally published technical
orders (TOs). TOs will be adhered to until revised IAW T.O. 00-5-1, Air Force Technical Order
System and all other applicable technical order directives.

2.5. Operations Manuals. The NAFs will specify procedures for proper marking and
annotations on hardcopy technical data consistent with the provisions of T.O. 00-5-1 and all
other applicable technical order directives.

2.6. Space Operations Procedures. This section outlines the basic process for development,
validation and approval of procedures based on new or changed operations requirements for
units/defense systems without formally published technical data. These procedures can be
permanent or temporary. Contractor-developed procedures are produced and delivered according
to the specifications in the governing contract. The implementing unit must review these
contractor documents for impact to unit procedures.

   2.6.1. Procedures Development and Validation:

       2.6.1.1. Validation. The organization(s) required to implement the procedure first
       validates it through trial use. Run the procedures, noting the expected outcome for each
       step or task. If the outcome is not as expected, then an analysis must be accomplished to
       determine any required modifications to the procedures or expected results. Provide
       recommendations to the developer for consideration or approval. If the trial run of a new
       procedure may impact operations or operational equipment, it must be conducted on an
       off-line simulator/system (if available) with sufficient fidelity to ensure no mission
       impact/equipment damage to the operational system.

       2.6.1.2. Permanent Procedures. These are necessary to ensure successful mission
       accomplishment. Although they are usually required for an indefinite period of time, they
       may be periodically modified to keep pace with changes to system or mission
       requirements. Permanent procedures are documented in positional checklists or
       operations manuals. Locally prepared checklists are formatted IAW T.O. 00-5-1,
       MILPRF-38314, Manuals, Technical: Operation and Associated Checklist (Space
Systems), Preparation of and MIL-STD-38784, Standard Practice for Manuals,
Technical, General Style and Format Requirements.

2.6.1.3. Changes. Changes to permanent procedures are categorized according to the
urgency for their implementation. Modifications usually are effected through the
replacement of whole pages. The three categories of changes are emergency, urgent and
routine.

   2.6.1.3.1. Emergency. These require immediate action on a deficiency that, if not
   corrected, would result in a fatality or serious injury to personnel, extensive damage
   or destruction of equipment or property, or inability to achieve or maintain the
   mission.

   2.6.1.3.2. Urgent. These require action on a deficiency which, if not corrected, could
   cause one or more of the following: personnel injury; damage to equipment or
   property; reduce operational efficiency; or could jeopardize the safety or success of
   mission accomplishment.

   2.6.1.3.3. Routine. These require action on deficiencies that do not fall into the
   emergency or urgent categories. These are modifications to existing procedures that
   do not affect the overall process for completion, such as administrative changes.

2.6.1.4. Wings develop procedures regarding the coordination, approval and review
processes for permanent procedures contained in positional checklists and operations
manuals. Wings may delegate this to the Group or Unit level.

   2.6.1.4.1. The coordination process must address procedure technical accuracy
   assurance, standardization of procedures and training requirements.

   2.6.1.4.2. The approval process must identify the final approval authority for new or
   changed procedures. The final approval authority ensures the procedure satisfies the
   operational requirement, is technically accurate, is in compliance with DoD and Air
   Force directives or instructions and is formatted appropriately.

   2.6.1.4.3. The review process must include a review of permanent procedures at least
   once per calendar year to ensure accuracy, currency and mission applicability. Wings
   will maintain on file for two years a document or electronic file of the procedures
   reviewed, date reviewed and reviewers Rank/Full Name. Wings may delegate this to
   the Group or Unit level. Individuals have the responsibility to take actions necessary
   to ensure the procedure in use is accurate.

2.6.1.5. All permanent procedures are maintained in the appropriate work center or issued
to all personnel performing duties in the work center. No new or changed procedures will
be used for operations until properly coordinated, approved and trained (as required) to
crew members. A unit may recommend to the approving authority that the procedure be
   categorized as a TP pending final approval. In this case, the procedure must meet all TP
   requirements before implementation.

   2.6.1.6. Individuals have the responsibility to take actions necessary to ensure the
   procedure in use is accurate. OPR will review procedures at least annually to ensure
   accuracy, currency and mission applicability.

   2.6.1.7. Forward a copy of all approved permanent procedures and related training
   material to the unit providing system initial qualification training, as applicable.

2.6.2. Temporary Procedures. TPs are used to temporarily alter existing permanent
procedures for defense systems without formally published TOs. Posted directly opposite the
affected procedure, they are usually required to be implemented because of a unique mission
requirement (e.g., to support system testing or to support a system engineering analysis
requirement). They are seldom modified; instead, they are regenerated as a new TP and the
previous version rescinded. TPs may be used to affect partial changes to permanent
procedures until the procedure or page may be replaced in its entirety IAW paragraph 2.6.1.3.

   2.6.2.1. A locally produced document or electronic file titled Temporary Procedure
   Request (TPR) is the method used to implement a TP. Initially attached to the TP during
   the coordination process and prior to TP posting, the TPR includes the following
   information (at a minimum): posting and removal instructions, effective dates, issuing
   agency and coordinating/approval agencies and signatures.

   2.6.2.2. There are three categories of TPs: emergency, urgent and routine.

       2.6.2.2.1. Emergency. These require immediate action that, if not implemented,
       would result in a fatality or serious injury to personnel, extensive damage or
       destruction of equipment or property, or inability to achieve or maintain the mission.

       2.6.2.2.2. Urgent. These require action which, if not corrected, could cause one or
       more of the following: personnel injury; damage to equipment or property; reduce
       operational efficiency; or could jeopardize the safety or success of mission
       accomplishment.

       2.6.2.2.3. Routine. These require action that does not fall into the emergency or
       urgent categories. These are modifications to existing procedures that do not affect
       the overall process for completion, such as administrative changes.

   2.6.2.3. Wings develop procedures regarding the coordination, approval and review
   processes for temporary procedures. Wings may delegate this to the Group or Unit level.

       2.6.2.3.1. The coordination process must address procedure technical accuracy
       assurance, standardization of procedures and training requirements.”
       2.6.2.3.2. All affected duty positions must be knowledgeable of and have access to a
       copy of the TPR and associated TP prior to performing duty in the weapon system or
       receipt of weapon system training. The approval process must identify the final
       approval authority, revocation authority, and extension authority for temporary
       procedures and will not be delegated below the Deputy Commander or Operations
       Officer level. The final approval authority ensures the procedure is technically
       accurate, satisfies operational requirements, complies with DoD and Air Force
       directives or instructions and is formatted appropriately.

       2.6.2.3.3. The review process must include a review of temporary procedures at least
       once per month to ensure accuracy, currency and mission applicability. Wings will
       maintain on file for two years a document or electronic file of the procedures
       reviewed, date reviewed and reviewers Rank/Full Name. Wings may delegate this to
       the Group or Unit level. Individuals have the responsibility to take actions necessary
       to ensure the procedure in use is accurate.

   2.6.2.4. Units review open TPs for possible integration into permanent procedures. Wings
   develop requirements for reviewing TPs, to include schedule, responsible agency and
   revocation and extension authorities.

2.6.3. Supplemental Procedures. Supplemental procedures are used to amplify/augment
existing permanent procedures without altering them. Wings develop procedures regarding
the coordination and approval process for supplemental procedures.
                                             Chapter 3

           PLANS, CERTIFICATIONS AND CREW FORCE MANAGEMENT

3.1. Education and Training Plans. AFSPC is responsible for service training for AFSPC
individuals and units. Service training is based on both joint and service policy and doctrine. The
AF ISD process must be used to develop all AF training. In order to maximize efficiency,
training must be guided by approved training plans to efficiently and effectively meet unit
training needs. AF policy prescribes planning and management of training (1) by career field, (2)
by defense system and (3) by unit. Unit personnel must build their training, evaluation and
certification programs according to guidance prescribed in each of the following plans:

   3.1.1. Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). Developed and maintained by AF
   Career Field Managers (AFCFMs) for each enlisted AF Specialty (AFS) in coordination with
   applicable AFS MFMs. CFETPs are optional for officer AFSCs. The CFETP is the primary
   document used to identify life-cycle education and training requirements. It serves as a road
   map for career progression and outlines requirements that must be satisfied at appropriate
   points throughout the career path. The CFETP also specifies the mandatory task qualification
   requirements for award and maintenance of an AFSC. CFETPs (when available) must be
   used to manage work center and individual training. See AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training
   Program, for further information regarding CFETPs.

   3.1.2. System Training Plan (STP). Developed and maintained by the Lead Command for
   each prime mission system. The STP is an iterative planning document that defines the
   justification, design, development, funding, resources, support, modification, operation and
   management of a training system. Once approved, the STP provides the developmental steps,
   responsibilities and guidance for the training system fielded to one or more units involving
   various AF specialties. See AFSPCI 36-283, Space Training System Management, and
   AFI 36-2251, Management of Air Force Training Systems, for further information
   regarding STPs.

   3.1.3. Master Training Plan (MTP). Supervisors, assisted by the Unit Training Manager,
   develop MTPs for each work center. Unit work centers utilize one or more defense systems
   and AF specialties to accomplish mission requirements. MTPs, congruent with applicable
   CFETPs and STPs, identify all required work center tasks as well as milestones for task
   completion. See AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, for additional information
   regarding MTP development.

3.2. Ancillary Training. AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, defines ancillary training
as, “Universal training, guidance or instruction, regardless of AFSC, that contributes to mission
accomplishment. It does not include functional, occupational or additional duty training.” When
developing training programs, units should consider whether certain tasks are more appropriately
and efficiently trained as part of ancillary training instead of part of functional training programs
such as mission ready training programs. For example, “Respond to Bomb Threat” or “Operate
Secure Telephone” may be tasks that more properly belong to ancillary training if frequently
required by unit personnel apart from AFSC, occupation or function. Functional/occupational
training ought to be narrowed to the knowledge and skills specific to duties associated with
function or occupation such as operation of a particular defense system (e.g. Respond to system
overheat condition, Handover/activate backup operations location). This is not intended to
diminish the necessity of ancillary training nor its contribution to mission accomplishment.
“Information Assurance Certification,” for example, is a necessary prerequisite to secure
operation of many defense systems, but that does not necessarily mean it belongs to mission
ready training programs, but is best trained as ancillary training. Ancillary training requirements
can be accomplished through a variety of methods including formal courses, mass briefings,
advanced distributed learning, credit for civilian equivalent experience, and one-on-one
instruction. When developing MTPs, units should consider identifying tasks/subjects that are part
of ancillary training so as to distinguish them from tasks/subject which may have more frequent
or more stringent requirements, such as functional or occupational training.

3.3. Certifications. AFSPC has distinguished three categories of functional training certification
for space operations. MR/CMR Certification has the most stringent training and evaluation
standards. Specialized Technical Certification has less stringent requirements, but more stringent
than AF OJT requirements prescribed by AFI 36-2201. Air Force OJT Certification has the least
stringent requirements. These three categories recognize that not all space operations require the
same rigorous standards to meet mission needs. Space operations units will use one or more of
these certifications IAW unit mission requirements and this instruction.

   3.3.1. Mission Ready (MR)/Combat Mission Ready (CMR) Certification. MR/CMR certified
   personnel are those responsible for completing a unit’s real-time operational mission. Not all
   duty positions require the more stringent MR/CMR standards prescribed by this instruction.
   MR/CMR duty positions typically engage in operational tasks characterized by: (1) time-
   critical decision-making, (2) use of tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs) to employ
   military capability and (3) rigorous standards that if not met, may result in loss of life, injury,
   or mission failure/degradation. Examples of MR/CMR personnel are those who command
   satellites, control space launch countdown processing, conduct space control operations, and
   physically control warning and surveillance systems. Training, evaluation and certification
   standards for MR/CMR positions are prescribed by this instruction and, as applicable,
   supplements to this instruction. HQ AFSPC/A3 is the sole authority for revoking and
   establishing new MR/CMR positions based upon NAF recommendations. Units should
   submit recommendations with the appropriate justification through HQ AFSPC/A3T. Upon
   approval, HQ AFSPC/A3 division(s) will update applicable guidance and Designed
   Operational Capability (DOC) Statements.

       3.3.1.1. Certifying Official. See para. 1.3.3.1.

       3.3.1.2. MR and CMR are defined below, derived from terms having long-standing usage
       in aircrew operations. See attachment 4 for the list of MR/CMR positions within 14 AF.

           3.3.1.2.1. MR – space operations personnel who have satisfactorily completed
           mission qualification training and maintain qualification and proficiency in the unit
           operational mission.
       3.3.1.2.2. CMR – space operations personnel who have satisfactorily completed
       mission qualification training and maintain qualification and proficiency in the unit
       combat mission.

   3.3.1.3. To maintain qualification and proficiency standards, MR/CMR personnel must
   satisfy the following:

       3.3.1.3.1. Initial and recurring training requirements IAW chapter 4.

       3.3.1.3.2. Initial and periodic evaluation requirements IAW chapter 5.2

       3.3.1.3.3. Monthly Shift Requirements (not applicable to spacelift or
       deployable/mobile units). Since job experience contributes to the sustainment of job
       proficiency, it is incumbent upon individuals to notify their supervisor, certifying
       official and unit scheduler when they fail to meet monthly shift requirements.
       Certified personnel must perform one duty shift per calendar month for each position
       certified. Personnel certified in more than one position must perform a separate duty
       shift for each certified position. A 15-day grace period is authorized for Guard
       personnel.

3.3.2. Specialized Technical Certification. This certification constitutes “specialized training
standardization and certification requirements” IAW AFI 36-2201. These individuals provide
mission critical support functions involving special technical skills and knowledge, but do
not require MR/CMR training, evaluation and certification requirements identified in this
instruction. The procedures for these duty positions are often highly technical in nature and
are typically less checklist driven or time-critical than MR/CMR procedures. Specialized
Technical duty positions often rely upon job aids, schematics, block diagrams,
software/hardware system knowledge and technical judgment for determination of actions to
be taken, with co-workers or supervisors typically available to check work for accuracy.
Most of the knowledge and tasks of these duty positions often extend beyond the core
knowledge and tasks identified by CFETPs. The task/knowledge requirements for these duty
positions may also have greater complexity as compared to common AFSC-wide training
requirements and warrant additional specialized training, evaluation and certification beyond
the minimum standard of AF OJT. Examples may include Spacecraft Engineer (62EXX),
Orbital Analyst or Mission Planner assigned to a satellite command and control unit, or
Launch Weather Officer (15WXX) assigned to a spacelift unit. Identify Specialized
Technical positions within 14 AF/Unit-level operating instructions or supplements to this
instruction.

   3.3.2.1. For those duty positions designated as requiring Specialized Technical
   Certification, group commanders will document qualification requirements in Group-
   level operating instructions or supplements to this instruction, ensuring compliance with
   AF ISD, AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2251 and applicable CFETPs. At a minimum, training
   program requirements must include a master training plan identifying applicable task
   knowledge and performance requirements. Supervisors, trainers and certifiers (as
   applicable) must complete the Air Force Training Course (AFTC) IAW AFI 36-2201.
       Officer, enlisted and civilian trainees must acknowledge and document task qualification
       and third-party certification (if required) upon completion of training. This
       documentation certifies the individual is accountable for task performance IAW the
       governing instructions. Based on mission needs, additional consideration for inclusion
       into training programs should be given to recurring training requirements, procedures for
       placement on/removal from restricted status, procedures for decertification and
       recertification and procedures to identify any health or medical condition that could
       impair ability to perform mission duties. The first operational commander in the
       member’s chain of command acts as the certifying official. The Commander may
       delegate this authority to his/her Deputy Commander or Operations Officer. No further
       delegation is authorized.

   3.3.3. AF On-the-Job Training (OJT) Certification. This certification applies to officer,
   enlisted and civilian personnel assigned to work center duty positions that do not require
   MR/CMR certification or Specialized Technical Certification. These duty positions are
   trained and certified by supervisors, trainers and certifiers (as applicable) IAW MTPs,
   CFETPs and AF OJT requirements prescribed by AFI 36-2201. Supervisors, trainers and
   certifiers (as applicable) must complete the AFTC. Officer, enlisted and civilian trainees
   must acknowledge and document task qualification upon completion of training.
   Documenting task qualification serves as an official certification of proficiency, certifying
   the individual is accountable for task performance IAW the governing instructions.

3.4. Operations Log. Units will log operational activities in a crew or duty log. This log will at a
minimum include identification of on-duty personnel, major operational activities, significant
communications, major system degradations and other abnormal system responses.

3.5. Operations Review Boards (ORB). Units will establish an ORB process to conduct an
investigation to determine the cause of any abnormal system response. This also applies to
operational units that do not have MR/CMR personnel. Examples of circumstances requiring an
ORB include: major system degradation, indications of erroneous system response/procedures
with significant mission impact, and significant events where the cause cannot be determined by
initial assessment, significant trends of operator errors or when corrective action is beyond
minimal retraining/minor procedural changes. System is defined as hardware, software, ground
segment, space segment and operators.

   3.5.1. The ORB convening authority is the 14 AF/A3 (in coordination with 10 AF/A3, as
   applicable) or the wing/group/squadron CC at their respective organizational levels. ORB
   team composition is at the discretion of the convening authority. Inform the respective NAF,
   HQ AFSPC/A3T, HQ AFSPC/SE and the A3 division with system responsibility via
   message when an ORB is convened (electronic versions are acceptable).

   3.5.2. ORB minutes/reports will be approved at the next organizational level above the
   convening authority. Send a copy of ORB minutes/report to the NAF/A3V, with information
   copies to HQ AFSPC/A3T, HQ AFSPC/SE and the HQ AFSPC/A3 division responsible for
   the mission (electronic versions are acceptable). ORB minutes/reports, will not be released
   outside of AFSPC without prior approval from the HQ AFSPC/A3 or AFSPC/CC/CV, as
   appropriate. HQ AFSPC/A3 will determine AFSPC release level.

   3.5.3. The ORB team will fully protect against the release of any information pertaining to
   the ORB and its outcomes. Treat all information pertaining to ORBs with the same rigor as
   safety investigations. Information will be considered preliminary until the approval of the
   ORB report by the appropriate convening authority. Unless the ORB is convened by a Joint
   Commander, members of the investigative team will not convey preliminary information,
   conclusions or assessments to USSSTRATCOM, USCYBERCOM, NRO, NGA, other joint
   organizations, or other personnel beyond the AFSPC command chain audience without
   approval by the ORB minutes/report release authority. Should there be a request to gain
   access to an ORB report or to gain insight of the incident that led to the need of an ORB,
   such requests will go to the Wing/CCs, NAF/CC and AFSPC/A3. If appropriate, the
   AFSPC/A3, as the release authority, will adjudicate such requests.

   3.5.4. In the process of an ORB investigation, if the investigation leads to discovery of
   reportable criteria (e.g. discovery of an OPREP-3 reportable event that was never reported),
   the command chain will immediately be notified of such discovery and the applicable wing
   commander(s) will manage such issues using appropriate reporting guidance. Such issues
   will not remain only within the investigative process, and may fall outside the scope of the
   ORB.

3.6. Initial Operations for New or Upgraded Systems. Prior to system operational test
activities and/or initial operations, the wing/group ensures operations, training, standardization,
evaluation and crew force management programs are developed and managed to provide
adequate support to the new or upgraded system operations. The unit commander will report this
status using Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS) criteria (see AFI 10-201, Status
of Resources and Training System). See AFSPCI 10-604 and AFSPCI 36-283 for additional
requirements.

   3.6.1. When significant hardware, software or procedural changes impact unit mission
   requirements, the certifying official who owns the mission will determine whether
   supplemental training or requalification is warranted. If supplemental training is needed,
   units will develop and conduct training prior to implementing changes. If requalification
   training is deemed necessary, units will train, evaluate and certify affected personnel prior to
   implementing changes.

   3.6.2. To prepare for significant equipment or procedural changes, a limited number of
   subject matter experts (SMEs) in the unit may be designated certified (i.e. MR/CMR,
   Specialized, or AF OJT) by the certifying official who owns the mission. The primary duties
   of the SME is to develop technical documentation, training and evaluation materials and to
   conduct training and evaluations. SMEs appointed for new or upgraded systems are not
   required to accomplish the training they develop; however, they must accomplish contractor
   provided Type 1 training, if available and any training directed by the OG/CC.

       3.6.2.1. SME designation will be documented in individual training records.
       3.6.2.2. SMEs must accomplish the appropriate training for the duty position, such as
       contractor-provided Type 1 training, if available. If deemed more appropriate and cost
       effective, SME training may be accomplished by other training types defined in
       AFI 36-2201. Document completion of SME training in individual training records.

       3.6.2.3. SMEs will validate training/evaluation programs through formative and
       summative evaluation methods IAW ISD processes. This will include delivery of training
       and evaluation to non-SME personnel to validate program effectiveness and to ensure
       sufficient numbers of personnel are certified to support system test activities and initial
       operations.

3.7. Officer Crew Tour Commitment Dates. (Except Air Reserve Component (ARC)) Officer
crew members in MR/CMR positions (operations officers and above excluded, where applicable)
at CONUS nonisolated bases are placed on an AAC 55. The AAC 55 is intended to provide a
stabilized crew force, a Trained Personnel Requirements validation tool and to ensure payback
for AETC training. The code is controlled by the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) and may
be terminated for a higher-level Air Force priority. Personnel with an AAC 55 must perform duty
in a MR/CMR position until an appropriate authority waives the MR/CMR requirement, waives
the AAC 55 or the AAC 55 expires. Individuals whose primary duties do not require CMR
certification (e.g., plans, executives, protocol) should not remain CMR certified. Ideally, officers
selected for these positions should be near or at the end of their crew tours. An AAC 55 starts
from the month the member arrives at the organization or function in accordance with
AFI 36-2110, Assignments, paragraph 2.15 and the AFPC Stabilized Tour Guide. The individual
becomes available for reassignment during the assignment cycle when the AAC expires. For
example, an individual arrives at his organization on 15 Aug 13 and receives a 3-year AAC 55.
The AAC 55 begins on 15 Aug 13 and expires 1 Aug 16. The individual is available for
reassignment during the summer assignment cycle, Jun-Sep 16. The local Military Personnel
Flight (MPF) administers the AAC 55.

   3.7.1. Permanent Change of Assignment (PCA) to a non-MR/CMR position. M/CMR
   decertification before receipt of an approved AF Form 2096, Classification/On-the-Job
   Training Action, is authorized if:

       3.7.1.1. The individual has completed the crew tour, unless appropriate waiver authority
       has approved a waiver. The waiver must be approved prior to PCA and decertification.

       3.7.1.2. The unit has coordinated the assignment with HQ AFSPC/A1FC and
       HQ AFPC/DPAOO1 and these agencies concur.

   3.7.2. Unit inactivation. Follow-on assignments for officers at inactivating units will be
   determined through the AFPC assignment process.

   3.7.3. Officers applying for schools or special programs do not require an AAC 55 waiver
   prior to the selection board. This includes boards for flying training, AF Institute of
   Technology (AFIT) programs and the AF Weapons Program. Officers should contact HQ
   AFSPC/A3T for boards not listed above. If the officer is selected, the unit must process a
   waiver to accurately account for AAC 55 commitments.

   3.7.4. A waiver is required prior to removal of officers from duty in a MR/CMR position if
   the AAC 55 has not expired. HQ AFSPC/A3 is the AAC 55 waiver authority; however, this
   authority is delegated to 14 AF commander for waivers of 7-12 months and wing
   commanders for waivers of 6 months or less. Documentation of waivers will be IAW local
   unit procedures and will include a roster of all crew members granted AAC 55 waivers, the
   purpose for the waiver and the original and new AAC 55 expiration dates. Units will send
   semi-annual copies of the roster to 14 AF, who will consolidate the inputs and forward to HQ
   AFSPC/A3TT via hardcopy or e-mail, IAW paragraph 1.3.2.8.1. Since Trained Personnel
   Requirements are based on AAC 55 expiration dates, units should not expect replacements
   for officers with AAC 55 waivers until the original AAC 55 expires. HQ AFSPC/A1FC will
   coordinate with HQ AFSPC/A3TT on assignment actions of crew personnel with an AAC
   55, as required. Waivers are not required when removal from MR/CMR duty is required
   because AFPC has broken the AAC 55 to meet an Air Force-level PCS requirement. Units
   will also reflect these instances in their semi-annul rosters.

   3.7.5. Unit manning is complicated by varied crew-to-staff ratios and large staff
   requirements. Positions for crew-experienced staff officers exceed crew positions in many
   squadrons, driving a high rate of crew-to-staff rotations. Unit commanders should minimize
   crew force turbulence to the maximum extent and seek AAC 55 waivers only as required to
   maintain staff capabilities. Crew members with the highest time on crew should be primary
   candidates for staff positions.

3.8. Enlisted Crew Tour Commitment Dates. (Except ARC) Enlisted assignment tours are
managed IAW AFI 36-2110, Assignments. AAC are used on a case-by-case basis to manage
enlisted assignments and/or to ensure mission continuity at the unit. HQ AFSPC/A1F is the
approving authority for enlisted AAC requests. Submit requests through HQ AFSPC/A1FX, 150
Vandenberg St., Suite 1105, Peterson AFB CO 80914-4020. Units with missions requiring all
enlisted members assigned in a duty to hold TS/SCI or higher clearances and are not selectively
manned will apply to be added to the AF Stabilized Tour Guide IAW AFI 36-2110, para. 2.15.6.

3.9. Adjusting Crew Tour Commitment Dates. AAC 55 dates are established as outlined in the
above paragraphs and will not be adjusted by local MPFs. For instances such as security
clearance issues and extended DNIC/DNIA status, units are encouraged to request extensions for
members via the AFPC reclama process as appropriate.
                                             Chapter 4

                           MR/CMR TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

4.1. General. Space forces conduct space related combat, combat support operations and
peacetime activities that are critical for the joint force. Continual training is crucial to maintain
proficiency because space assets and their tactics, techniques and procedures continually evolve.
Stringent standards of performance should be established to ensure space operators attain and
maintain the high degree of proficiency required for mission success.

4.2. Requirements:

   4.2.1. Only MR/CMR certified instructors or instructor trainees under direct supervision of a
   certified instructor will conduct training on operational equipment, document training, or
   administer written or performance tests to meet MR/CMR training requirements. Training
   may be conducted by non-MR/CMR certified personnel in classroom or off-line simulator if
   validated and documented by certified MR/CMR instructors.

       4.2.1.1. Training, certification, restriction and decertification requirements for MR/CMR
       instructors will be determined by OG/CCs and documented in group-level instructions or
       supplements to this instruction. At a minimum, training will include ISD procedures and
       processes. The certifying official will select and designate squadron/Geographically
       Separated Unit (GSU) instructors as required. Selection and designation will be
       documented IAW chapter 6.

   4.2.2. Instructors must maintain MR/CMR certification. Instructors need not be certified in
   the same MR/CMR duty positions that they instruct. Instructors may teach tasks/subjects of
   different duty positions so long as they are certified to the same or greater proficiency level
   in the same tasks/subjects they instruct.

   4.2.3. Training programs, practices and operations procedures will be standardized with
   evaluation programs as much as practical, to include standard stimuli. A stimuli list to
   document entering arguments for each performance task/subtask may be developed and used,
   as needed.

   4.2.4. Performance tests conducted during qualification or proficiency training should be
   administered using off-line simulation capability in a crew environment to the maximum
   extent possible. However, the observation of tasks in a real-world environment, when
   correctly performed and when observed and documented by an instructor certified in the
   tasks may also satisfy training requirements.

       4.2.4.1. Scenario Support Personnel. In addition to instructors, those who participate in
       presenting a training scenario as part of a performance test are considered scenario
       support personnel. These may include, but are not limited to, the following: sim switch,
       trainer operator, trusted agents and other personnel necessary to ensure proper scenario
   presentation. Use support personnel to simulate external and internal agencies, and
   receive and pass event responses, as required.

4.2.5. Prerequisites for Mission Qualification Training (MQT). MQT is position-specific
training conducted by operational squadrons/detachments or Operation Support Squadrons as
a prerequisite to MR/CMR certification. IQT refers to one or more Formal Training Unit
(FTU) courses that provide system and/or position-specific training as a prerequisite to MQT.
Successful completion of UST is required as a prerequisite to IQT and MQT. FTU courses
will be planned, developed and/or modified IAW AFSPCI 36-283.

4.2.6. To maximize FTU investment and minimize training burden on the operational unit,
IQT (if available) is required prior to entry into MQT (see exception in para. 4.2.8.). Waivers
are permitted with sufficient justification. HQ AFSPC/A3T is the IQT waiver authority.
Units may submit IQT waiver request IAW chapter 8.

4.2.7. To the maximum extent possible, personnel will attend UST and IQT (if available)
while permanent change of station (PCS) en route to their unit assignment.

4.2.8. In the judgment of the certifying official, if an individual has been previously
MR/CMR certified in the unit’s mission or like weapon system, tailored MQT at the unit is
appropriate in lieu of IQT with no waiver required.

4.2.9. Training required for AFSC award is determined by the AFCFMs. Send inquiries or
waiver requests for AFSC-award requirements through the appropriate MFM to the AFCFM
for resolution.

4.2.10. IQT Graduate Training Verification Process. The purpose of this process is to verify
AETC training and the graduate’s knowledge and skill through a combination of interviews,
knowledge and performance tests.

   4.2.10.1. The goals are to reduce and/or eliminate the duplication of training between
   IQT and MQT, to provide feedback to AETC, to determine if a graduate needs additional
   training on any IQT-taught task(s)/subtask(s) and to assist the unit in estimating the time
   required to bring the trainee to MR/CMR status. Individuals who did not attend IQT or
   Familiarization Course are exempt from IQT verification process.

   4.2.10.2. Units will conduct the same verification process for each graduate.
   Standardization of the process will identify AETC trends and assist in unit training
   requirements. The only exception to this is if a graduate arrives with an AETC deficiency
   notification. The verification process is adjusted to account for the deficiency. Units with
   like weapon systems will standardize the verification scenario to the greatest extent
   possible.

   4.2.10.3. Operational units will conduct the verification process prior to personnel entry
   into MQT. Provide feedback to AETC upon MQT completion for IQT and
   Familiarization Courses. Based on the results of this feedback, units may consider
   recommending changes to AETC courses. Recommend AETC course changes through
   appropriate Group/NAF training and stan/eval offices to HQ AFSPC/A3TT. Changes will
   be submitted to the appropriate Training Planning Team (TPT) and processed according
   to AFI 36-2251 and AFI 36-2201.

4.2.11. Qualification Training (QT) Requirements. QT includes IQT, MQT, Upgrade
Training (UT) and Requalification Training (RQT).

   4.2.11.1. MQT requirements. MQT focuses on filling training requirements not met at
   IQT and increasing proficiency, as needed. It also focuses on local procedures and
   orientation to ensure a smooth transition from IQT to MR/CMR. Units will conduct MQT
   according to a unit-developed Initial Plan of Instruction (IPOI) and NAF-approved TEPS.
   The IPOI will include all subjects, tasks, subtasks and required proficiency levels of the
   MR/CMR duty position. The IPOI will also include estimated total training days and
   milestones expected for training completion. Units may document task completion and
   training feedback directly on the IPOI, if desired. If so, the IPOI will become part of the
   individual training record. Otherwise, units will document training upon completion
   using any AF, AFSPC, or 14 AF approved training form. See chapter 6 for further
   documentation guidance.

   4.2.11.2. For personnel assigned to a unit, but who did not attend IQT for the present
   assignment, units will assess the individual’s knowledge and proficiency on the required
   MR/CMR subjects/tasks. MQT will be adjusted to reflect the necessary training.

   4.2.11.3. Upgrade Training (UT). UT is given to personnel upgrading from their current
   crew position to a new or additional position within the unit. Units may use MQT
   material to train an individual in another duty position. Ensure all subjects/tasks are
   trained IAW NAF-approved TEPS. Tasks common to both positions do not need to be
   retrained if the knowledge and skills are duplicated. Individuals are not eligible to
   complete upgrade training unless they have completed MQT and are certified mission-
   ready in another crew position.

   4.2.11.4. Requalification Training (RQT). RQT is given to qualify individuals who have
   been MR/CMR decertified, who have previous experience in a similar weapon system, or
   at the discretion of the certifying official following a major weapon system modification.
   Tailor RQT to meet the training needs of the individual and adequately cover the reason
   the individual was decertified.

4.2.12. Proficiency Training (PT). PT includes recurring training (RT), individual training
(IT) and supplemental training (ST). Proficiency training applies to all MR/CMR personnel.

   4.2.12.1. Recurring Training (RT). RT emphasizes knowledge and skills not used on a
   routine basis, knowledge and skill deficiencies identified through feedback and provides
   the medium for knowledge enhancement training. RT goes beyond training required for
   qualification. It increases a person’s knowledge of job related tasks, other positions and
   the operational environment. Units will develop an Annual POI (APOI) to guide RT. The
intention is the APOI remain flexible and easily modified at the unit level. The RT
program may adapt to changing mission needs, as required. Units must, however, meet
the minimum annual and quarterly requirements described below.

   4.2.12.1.1. Annual RT Requirements. Train all MR/CMR critical and essential tasks
   IAW NAF-approved TEPS at least once every calendar year, per individual. Only one
   subtask needs to be trained to satisfy the task requirement.

   4.2.12.1.2. Quarterly RT Requirements. RT may include self-study guides, individual
   task presentation, classroom presentations, computer based training and/or training
   scenarios/on-duty crew observations. Scripts are not required to guide real-world
   observations or for OJT. However, if real-world observations or OJT is combined
   with simulated voice or written inputs or with other stimuli intended to augment real-
   world activities, this constitutes a scenario or operational mock-up which must be
   guided by a script.

       4.2.12.1.2.1. At a minimum, a written test and performance test will be
       administered at least once every calendar quarter, per individual. Each
       performance test will include an operationally realistic scenario guided by a script
       (as applicable, see exception above) and based upon NAF-approved TEPS. The
       content and format of the scenario script is left for units to determine using
       guidance found in AFH 36-2235 Vol. 12, standardizing to the extent practical. At
       a minimum, each performance test should include inputs to measure crew
       coordination and prioritization. Review and approval of training materials will be
       determined by Group or Unit Training Offices.

       4.2.12.1.2.2. Crew members will begin receiving RT in the calendar quarter
       following successful completion of their positional certification.

       4.2.12.1.2.3. Personnel are not exempt from taking the performance test which
       they authored.

       4.2.12.1.2.4. Personnel who develop the RT written test are exempt from taking
       the RT written test for that period. If tests are constructed via test generation
       software/tools which permit test construction without knowledge of the actual
       questions contained in the test, personnel who develop the test are not exempt
       from the test.

       4.2.12.1.2.5. Retrain and retest deficiencies noted by the instructor during
       performance tests until corrected or the instructor terminates the session.

       4.2.12.1.2.6. Personnel certified in more than one position must accomplish the
       RT for each position.

       4.2.12.1.2.7. Document completion of RT including task coverage IAW chapter 6.
   4.2.12.2. Individual Training (IT). Use IT when an individual is placed in restricted status
   as a result of evaluation deficiencies/recommendation or non-completion or failure of RT.
   The certifying official may direct IT for substandard mission performance or other
   situations (e.g., upon return from extended temporary duty (TDY) or to correct
   deficiencies identified during a successful evaluation). Tailor IT to meet the needs of the
   individual.

   4.2.12.3. Supplemental Training (ST). ST trains new or changed procedures, hardware, or
   software when RQT is not warranted. The certifying official may direct ST.

       4.2.12.3.1. Tailor ST based on the operational impact(s) of the new or changed
       procedure(s), hardware, or software.

       4.2.12.3.2. For changes directly affecting mission accomplishment or safety,
       administer ST to all personnel before they perform crew duty (e.g., new task,
       upgraded proficiency level, etc.).

       4.2.12.3.3. The need for SME designation to develop ST is at the discretion of the
       certifying official.

4.2.13. Written tests are used to ensure the effectiveness of the training conducted. Written
tests must comply with AFMAN 36-2236 Chapter 22.

4.2.14. Develop performance tests IAW guidelines found in AFH 36-2235 Vol 12. Design
and use scripts (as applicable) to present simulated inputs/scenarios. Ensure standardization
of presentation and proper application of performance standards to the extent possible.
Include instructions for instructors, scenario support personnel, simulated inputs and status
card inputs. All simulation materials will be marked as such.

4.2.15. Pre-brief for Trainee. Instructors will provide a pre-brief to ensure the trainee clearly
understands the rules of engagement before the performance test. The pre-brief sets the
environment of the performance test scenario. Ensure the pre-brief includes instructions
regarding starting status and Risk Management (RM) considerations.

4.2.16. Once a performance test scenario is started, all efforts will be made to complete the
scenario. However, if a scenario is terminated before the designated end, it may be completed
from the point activity was stopped or completely re-accomplished.

4.2.17. Prior to training in the operational environment, utilize a RM assessment to ensure
unnecessary operational risks are addressed.

   4.2.17.1. When creating performance tests, do not create actual conditions that could
   jeopardize personnel safety or cause equipment damage.

   4.2.17.2. Safety and real-world operational requirements take priority over simulated
   activities.
   4.2.17.3. Immediately correct breaches of safety during training (this applies to all crew
   members). If this situation occurs, the instructor will also debrief unit supervision and if
   appropriate, document the deviation.

4.2.18. After the performance test is complete, conduct a debrief IAW AFSPCI 10-415 and
document results including task coverage according to chapter 6.
                                             Chapter 5

                         MR/CMR EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS

5.1. General. In concert with training, evaluation is key to identifying shortfalls and is a critical
measure of training program effectiveness. Performance and written tests conducted as part of
MR/CMR evaluation activities provide an important measure of training effectiveness. The
evaluation requirements prescribed by this chapter are developed and administered by Group-,
Squadron-, or Detachment-level Standardization and Evaluation (Stan/Eval) personnel. In order
to provide unbiased feedback to the training program, personnel are not generally certified as
instructors and evaluators simultaneously. However, due to mission limitations, there will be
instances when unit commanders must use an individual in both capacities. Evaluators who are
also instructor certified may not evaluate an individual on tasks for which they conducted the
training. If circumstances prevent using a different evaluator, certifying officials may waive this
requirement on a case-by-case basis. Waivers must be documented in writing as part of the
evaluation documentation, to include the specific circumstance(s) that led to the waiver being
granted.

5.2. Requirements:

   5.2.1. Only certified evaluators or evaluator trainees under direct supervision of a certified
   evaluator will conduct evaluations on operational equipment or off-line simulators/training
   devices, document evaluations, or administer knowledge or performance tests to meet
   MR/CMR evaluation requirements.

       5.2.1.1. Training, certification, restriction and decertification requirements for MR/CMR
       evaluators will be determined by OG/CCs and documented in group-level instructions or
       supplements to this instruction. At a minimum, training will include ISD procedures and
       processes. The certifying official will select and designate OGV, squadron, or GSU
       evaluators as required. Selection and designation will be annotated in the individual
       training records.

   5.2.2. Evaluators need not be certified in the same MR/CMR duty positions that they
   evaluate. Evaluators must, however, maintain MR/CMR certification and be trained,
   evaluated and maintain currency in the subject(s)/task(s)/subtasks(s) they evaluate.

   5.2.3. Performance tests conducted to satisfy evaluation requirements should be administered
   using off-line simulation capability in a crew environment to the maximum extent possible.
   However, the observation of tasks in a real-world environment, when observed and
   documented by an evaluator certified in the tasks may also satisfy evaluation requirements.

       5.2.3.1. Scenario Support Personnel. In addition to evaluators, those who participate in
       presenting an evaluation scenario as part of a performance test are considered scenario
       support personnel. These may include, but are not limited to, the following: sim switch,
       trainer operator, trusted agents and other personnel necessary to ensure proper scenario
   presentation. Use support personnel to simulate external and internal agencies and receive
   and pass event responses, as required.

5.2.4. Written tests may also be included as part of evaluations at the discretion of the
OG/CC. Performance tests and written tests (if included) will be developed and administered
IAW AFH 36-2235 Vol 12.

5.2.5. Document evaluation activities in individual training records IAW chapter 6.

5.2.6. Evaluation programs, practices and operations procedures will be standardized with
training programs as much as practical, to include standard stimuli. A stimuli list to
document entering arguments for each performance task/subtask may be developed and used,
as needed. The evaluation program will not introduce stimuli that have not been presented by
the training program.

5.2.7. Evaluators will conduct a thorough pre-mission briefing and post-mission outbrief for
the evaluatee and applicable crew members on all aspects of the evaluation.

5.2.8. Prior to evaluating in the operational environment, utilize an RM assessment to ensure
unnecessary operational risks are addressed.

   5.2.8.1. When creating performance tests, do not create actual conditions that could
   jeopardize personnel safety or cause equipment damage.

   5.2.8.2. Safety and real-world operational requirements take priority over simulated
   activities.

   5.2.8.3. Immediately correct breaches of safety during an evaluation (this applies to all
   crew members). If this situation occurs, the evaluator will also debrief unit supervision
   and if appropriate, document the deviation.

5.2.9. Qualification (QUAL) Evaluations. Initial QUAL evaluations are administered upon
completion of MQT. At a minimum, periodic QUAL evaluations are given to each MR/CMR
crew member to meet annual evaluation requirements described below. QUAL evaluations
will consist of a performance test developed to support unit-developed Plan of Evaluation
(POE) requirements. The POE may be modified at the discretion of the unit to meet emerging
operational needs, so long as annual evaluation requirements are met. In order to simplify
unit evaluation program documentation, no other evaluation types are prescribed. QUAL
evaluations are tailored and used to meet any special, spot, requalification or no-notice
requirements as deemed necessary. Evaluation scripts must be used to guide presentation of
performance tests conducted in a simulated environment. Scripts are not required for real-
world task observations if no simulated inputs/stimuli are presented. If simulated
inputs/stimuli are presented during real-world task observations, scripts must be used to
guide the simulated portion of the evaluator presentation.
   5.2.10. Performance Tests. Performance tests include real-world observations and/or
   operationally realistic scenarios presented in a simulated environment. Evaluation scripts
   must be used to guide presentation of performance tests conducted in a simulated
   environment. Scripts are not required for real-world task observations if no simulated
   inputs/stimuli are presented. If simulated inputs/stimuli are presented during real-world task
   observations, scripts must be used to guide the simulated portion of the performance test. The
   combination of observations and/or scenarios will be selected to provide a sufficient sample
   of critical and mission essential tasks to assess evaluatee knowledge/proficiency. The
   performance test will be based upon NAF-approved TEPS. The content and format of the
   script is to be determined by the Group or Unit Stan/Eval office using performance test
   guidance detailed in AFH 36-2235 Vol. 12. At a minimum, each performance test should
   include inputs/observations that measure crew coordination and prioritization. Review and
   approval of performance tests will be determined by Group or Unit Stan/Eval offices,
   however, must comply with guidance IAW AFSPCI 10-415. Unless deemed necessary by the
   Group, Squadron or Detachment Commander, units need not maintain multiple scripts on file
   to cover the entire annual period, nor are units required to keep scripts which are no longer
   intended for use. The intent of this policy is to reduce the documentation requirements of the
   operational units. A POE will be maintained to describe how annual evaluation requirements
   will be met. Scripts must be developed and approved prior to use.

   5.2.11. Annual Evaluation Requirements.

       5.2.11.1. Each MR/CMR crew member must successfully pass an initial or periodic
       QUAL evaluation every calendar year.

       5.2.11.2. All critical and mission-essential tasks and subtasks (IAW NAF-approved
       TEPS) will be evaluated across the crew force every calendar year. This will not be
       interpreted to mean that every crew member will receive every task and subtask, but
       tasks/subtasks will be annually presented and assessed across the crew force. The
       combination of periodic QUAL evaluations given during the calendar year will be used to
       fulfill this requirement.

5.3. Error Categories. Deviations from proper procedures fall into one of three error categories:
critical, major or minor. Units may optionally use the following error categories when providing
feedback to evaluatees.

   5.3.1. Critical Error. Assess a critical error when evaluatee actions result or would reasonably
   be expected to result, in operational mission failure, endangerment of human life, serious
   injury or death.

   5.3.2. Major Error. Assess a major error when evaluatee actions result, or would reasonably
   be expected to result, in degradation to the operational mission or personnel injury.

   5.3.3. Minor Error. All other incorrect actions fall into this category.
5.4. Grading System. A two-tiered grading system will be used to evaluate and document
operator performance. On one level, tasks/subtasks of operator performance are individually
graded against established evaluation criteria. Performance less than fully qualified is
documented. On the second level, an overall qualification level is determined from the
compilation of these individual scores/grades.

   5.4.1. Task/Subtask Grades. Weapon System-Specific Volumes may be used to
   establish tasks/subtasks to be evaluated during evaluations - to include the appropriate
   grading criteria for those tasks/subtasks. Tasks will have a two-level (Qualified (Q) or
   Unqualified (U)) or three-level (Q/Qualified-minus (Q-)/U) grading system. Discrepancies
   will be documented against the listed tasks/subtasks.

       5.4.1.1. Q is the desired level of performance. The examinee demonstrated a
       satisfactory knowledge of all required information, performed duties within the
       prescribed tolerances and accomplished the assigned mission.

       5.4.1.2. Q- indicates the examinee is qualified to perform the assigned task/subtask, but
       requires debriefing or individual training as recommended to the Certifying Official by
       the evaluator. Deviations from established standards must not exceed the prescribed Q
       tolerances or jeopardize safety.

       5.4.1.3. U indicates a performance outside allowable parameters or deviations from
       prescribed procedures/tolerances that adversely affected mission accomplishment or
       compromised safety. An examinee receiving a task/subtask grade of U normally
       requires additional training.

   5.4.2. Critical Task/Subtask. Will be defined by the weapon system as areas that, upon
   failure, would most adversely affect the qualification of a crew member. Critical
   tasks/sub-tasks include, but are not limited to when evaluatee actions result, or would
   reasonably be expected to result, in operational mission failure, endangerment of human life,
   serious injury, or death. Grade all critical tasks/sub-tasks as either Q or U.

   5.4.3. Qualification Levels. Evaluation performance is graded by qualification levels
   as follows:

       5.4.3.1. Qualification Level 1 (Q1). The operator demonstrated desired
       performance and knowledge of procedures, equipment and directives within
       tolerances specified in the grading criteria. This will be awarded when no
       discrepancies were noted and may be awarded when discrepancies are noted if:

           5.4.3.1.1. The discrepancies resulted in no U grades being given in any
           task/subtask.

           5.4.3.1.2. All discrepancies noted during the evaluation do not require individual
           training as recommended by the evaluator.
       5.4.3.2. Qualification Level 2 (Q2). The operator demonstrated the ability to
       perform duties safely, but:

          5.4.3.2.1. There were one or more tasks/subtasks where additional training was
          recommended by the evaluator.

          5.4.3.2.2. A non-critical tasks/subtask grade of U was awarded.

          5.4.3.2.3. In the judgment of the evaluator, there is justification for the Q2
          rating based on performance in one or several tasks/subtasks.

       5.4.3.3. Qualification Level 3 (Q3). The operator demonstrated an unacceptable
       level of performance, knowledge or safety.

          5.4.3.3.1. An area grade of U awarded in a critical task requires an overall Q3
          for the evaluation.

          5.4.3.3.2. An overall Q3 can be awarded if, in the judgment of the evaluator,
          there is justification based on performance in one or several tasks/subtasks.

5.5. Grading Policies.

   5.5.1. Written Tests. If used, the evaluator will consider written test results in assigning the
   overall qualification level.

   5.5.2. Performance Areas/Sub-Areas. Use the two-level (Q/U) or three-level (Q/Q-/U)
   grading system when applying the grading criteria definitions specified by the 14 AF.

       5.5.2.1. The evaluator will grade any tasks/subtasks observed during an evaluation
       if performance in the tasks/subtasks impacts the specific evaluation accomplished or
       safety.

       5.5.2.2. Minor momentary deviations from grading criteria tolerances are acceptable,
       provided the evaluatee applies prompt corrective action and such deviations do not
       jeopardize mission or safety. Consider cumulative deviations when determining the
       overall task/subtask grade.

       5.5.2.3. The evaluator may further identify tasks/subtasks as “Commendable” if, in
       the evaluator’s determination, the operator has demonstrated exceptional skill and
       knowledge in that particular task/subtask. Document commendable areas IAW chapter 6.

   5.5.3. Overall Qualification Levels.

       5.5.3.1. The overall qualification level awarded on an evaluation is based on performance
       during both the simulator/observation and written test (if used). An overall grade of Q1 or
       Q2 will be awarded only after all evaluation requirements have been completed and given
       due consideration. An overall grade of Q3 may be awarded at any time.

       5.5.3.2. To receive a qualified grade on an evaluation, the operator must satisfy the
       criteria set forth for the tasks/subtasks and demonstrate ability effectively during all
       portions of an evaluation.

       5.5.3.3. Overall qualification grades will be a cumulative process. Evaluator
       judgment will always be the determining factor in deciding the overall qualification
       level.

   5.5.4. Exceptionally Qualified Designation (Q1-E). An exceptionally qualified
   designation may be awarded by the evaluator. The designation can only be applied to the
   total evaluation - not to separate parts. The designation may be awarded when:

       5.5.4.1. The operator has demonstrated exceptional skill and knowledge in all portions of
       the evaluation;

       5.5.4.2. The operator has not failed any part and;

       5.5.4.3. The operator received a qualified grade with no downgrades (remedial action
       required) on all tasks/subtasks.

5.6. Remedial Action. All grades of Q- or less require action to remedy the discrepancy and/or
deficiency in performance. Remedial action includes outbriefing discrepancies and/or assignment
of additional training.

   5.6.1. Outbriefed Discrepancy. Remedial action accomplished during outbrief of the
   evaluation wherein the evaluator provides briefing concerning the discrepancy and
   determines that the evaluatee has gained the necessary knowledge or proficiency to remedy
   the discrepancy. The discrepancy task/subtask description is annotated with “Outbriefed” on
   appropriate form.

   5.6.2. Individual Training. Any training recommended by an evaluator and directed by
   the certifying official to remedy deficiencies identified during an evaluation.

       5.6.2.1. Individual training may include self-study, instruction, use of a simulator
       or observation. To complete individual training, the evaluatee must demonstrate
       attainment of satisfactory knowledge or proficiency.

       5.6.2.2. Individual training is documented IAW chapter 6. Description of assigned
       individual training will include how satisfactory knowledge or proficiency will be
       demonstrated. (example: complete self study and take alternate version of test with
       passing score, or complete special evaluation of designated tasks)

       5.6.2.3. Due dates and dates on which individual training is completed will be
       documented in the appropriate areas of the form.

       5.6.2.4. The instructor and student who completed the individual training will sign the
       form. The certifying official will sign the form.

       5.6.2.5. Certifying officials will ensure required individual training is completed prior to
       the crew member accomplishing MR/CMR duties.

5.7. Evaluation Recheck. If an operator fails an evaluation, a successful recheck must be
completed prior to performing MR/CMR duties. A recheck is successfully completed when the
operator performs to Q criteria (Q or Q- outbriefed) for each task/subtask graded U. Document
this action on the appropriate form. Every reasonable effort must be made to requalify the
individual. The evaluator that administered the original evaluation should not administer the
recheck, unless there is only one evaluator available. Document such exceptions in writing on the
evaluation form.

5.8. Restrictions. When called for by this instruction or deemed necessary in the judgment of the
evaluator, restrictions will be recommended by the evaluator and may be imposed by the
certifying official, on the evaluatee until successful completion of assigned additional training
and/or a recheck.

   5.8.1. Restrictions should address the specific areas of operations (tasks/subtasks) that
   require supervision and the criteria for removal of the restrictions.

       5.8.1.1. Substandard performance in any task/subtask may require restrictions to ensure
       operational safety or mission accomplishment.

   5.8.2. Specific restrictions and the criteria for the removal of the restrictions will be
   documented IAW chapter 6.

5.9. Failure to Complete an Evaluation within the Required Period. If an operator fails to
complete an evaluation within the calendar year, the operator loses the qualification covered by
the evaluation and must be restricted from duty. Qualification may be re-established by
administering a QUAL evaluation.

5.10. Failure to Pass an Evaluation. A restriction resulting from a Q3 in any evaluation applies
only to the weapon system position for which the evaluation was administered, unless, in the
opinion of the evaluator, the discrepancy is applicable to additional weapon system positions.
                                             Chapter 6

                           DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS

6.1. General. Documentation is important to personnel at all levels because it validates the status
of task qualification/certification as well as duty position certification/restricted status.
Documentation also helps management assess mission capability and readiness, provides
feedback to trainees/evaluatees, as well as helps define requirements for individual career
progression. At a minimum, units must follow the documentation requirements identified below
which are common requirements across the AF. The intent is to provide top-level documentation
direction and leave to the OG Commanders to determine what further documentation
requirements are necessary to meet their particular mission needs.

6.2. Requirements. Supervisors must ensure all documentation is accurate and comprehensive.
Units may choose to use one or more AF, AFSPC or 14 AF approved forms listed in this chapter
to fulfill training/evaluation and certification documentation requirements. Other forms must be
approved by HQ AFSPC/A3T prior to use. Units must document:

   6.2.1. Training and evaluation performance standards. See attachment 2 for further
   information.

   6.2.2. All positional certifications, as well as qualifications by subject, task/subtask,
   proficiency level and duty position. Include technical references for each task/subtask. This
   serves as official record of proficiency, certifying the individual is accountable for task
   performance IAW standards, applicable governing instructions and technical references.
   Documentation must include signature (electronic or hardcopy) or initials indicating
   concurrence by instructor/evaluator and student/evaluatee and certifying official, as
   applicable. (Note: documentation of positional certification with reference to TEPS fulfills
   the requirement to provide linkage to subject, task/subtask, proficiency level documentation
   requirements, so long as this is unambiguous within the TEPS).

   6.2.3. SME, instructor and evaluator certifications, decertifications and restrictions. Include
   reference to applicable duty position(s).

   6.2.4. All recurring, special (e.g. Type 1 or 5), supplemental and requalification training and
   evaluation activities, to include task coverage.

   6.2.5. Restricted and decertification status, to include steps taken to recertify or unrestrict (as
   applicable).

   6.2.6. Trainee/evaluatee strengths, weaknesses, attitude and corrective action (if required).

   6.2.7. Explanation of delays in training requirements and/or completion, as well as problems
   encountered with task certification (if any).
6.3. Primary Documentation. Not all documentation should be interpreted as having the same
level of importance. It is of utmost importance that units document the personnel conducting
operations are trained, evaluated and certified to a defined standard. This requires accurate and
comprehensive documentation of current qualifications/certifications as well as an accurate
accounting of personnel conducting MR/CMR duties.

   6.3.1. Documenting qualification, certification and restricted status. When used in
   combination with NAF-approved TEPS, the AFSPC Form 91/91A (or other approved
   form(s) listed below) serves as the official record from the certifying official that the
   individual has met all requirements and is accountable for task performance in assigned
   MR/CMR position(s). The AFSPC Form 91/91A (or other approved form(s) listed below)
   will also be used to document training and evaluation activities and other items identified in
   para. 6.2.

   6.3.2. Operations Log. The Operations Log will be the primary means to document the names
   of MR/CMR personnel conducting crew shift duties as well as other activities described in
   para. 3.4.

   6.3.3. Master Training Plan (MTP). Units must maintain a MTP for each work center. See
   AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, for additional information regarding MTP
   development.

6.4. Secondary Documentation. In comparison to the primary documentation described above,
other documentation is of secondary importance in definitively determining qualifications,
restriction and certification status of operations personnel conducting MR/CMR duties.
Examples of secondary documents include crew schedules, plans of instruction and evaluation,
performance tests, written tests and corrective action reports.

   6.4.1. The ISD process is intended to be flexible. Plans of instruction and evaluation are to be
   used to guide instructors and evaluators. These plans may be modified by the unit to meet
   changing mission needs. Instructors/evaluators use ISD to develop plans, instructional
   materials and performance/written tests prior to the conduct of instruction/evaluation. These
   plans and materials are developed by the unit and can be modified at any time before
   implementation to meet the needs of the unit.

   6.4.2. In the event that primary and secondary documentation appear contradictory regarding
   the restricted and/or certification status of operations personnel, primary documentation (e.g.
   Form 91/91A, TEPS and Operations Logs) will take precedence. At all times, however, units
   must be able to clearly demonstrate that those conducting MR/CMR operations are qualified
   to do so to the subject, task and subtask levels.

6.5. Approved Forms. The following AF, AFSPC and 14 AF training forms are approved for
use by 14 AF units. Electronic equivalent means, such as Patriot Excalibur (PEX), Training
Business Area (TBA) or Air Force Training Record (AFTR) are authorized so long as they
record the same minimum information as the approved forms.
6.5.1. AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder

6.5.2. AF IMT 623A, On-the-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet

6.5.3. AF Form 623B, Individual Training Record Label

6.5.4. AF IMT 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS

6.5.5. AF IMT 803, Report of Task Evaluations

6.5.6. AF IMT 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training

6.5.7. AF Form 1256, Certificate of Training

6.5.8. AFSPC Form 91, Individual’s Record of Duties and Qualification

6.5.9. AFSPC Form 91A, Record of Signatures

6.5.10. 14 AF IMT 14, 14 AF Training Report

6.5.11. 14 AF IMT 6, 14 AF Corrective Action Worksheet
                                            Chapter 7

               MOBILE/DEPLOYABLE UNIT MR/CMR REQUIREMENTS

7.1. Requirements for training/evaluations in the deployed environment will apply to crew
members who deploy from their main operating base in their certified MR/CMR positions for
periods in excess of 30 days.

7.2. Pre-Deployment Requirements. Prior to deployment, the certifying official will ensure all
operators, instructors and evaluators are current on training and evaluation requirements.

7.3. Deployment Requirements. While operating in the deployed environment the following
training/evaluation requirements will apply:

   7.3.1. The deployment commander is responsible to ensure all training/evaluation
   requirements are met.

   7.3.2. Supplemental Training. For changes directly affecting mission accomplishment,
   deployed operators may receive the training while on crew. ST may be documented in the
   crew log by the deployment commander.

   7.3.3. Recurring Training. The deployment commander will determine recurring training
   requirements for deployed operators. Instructors are encouraged to utilize real-world task
   observations to meet training requirements. Instructors will document actual task coverage
   while deployed so that tasks not covered while deployed can be accounted for and trained
   upon return from deployment. Tasks unable to be observed in the deployed environment will
   be documented and trained on return to the home unit.

   7.3.4. Individual Training. For significant deficiencies noted during deployed operations IT
   will be required, as directed by the deployment commander. Document the deficiency, the
   recommended corrective action and successful completion of IT. IT may be documented in
   the crew log by the deployment commander.

   7.3.5. Deployed Evaluations. Evaluations need not be conducted at the deployed location.
   Any overdue evaluations will be conducted on return to the home unit.

7.4. Post-Deployment Requirements. Following return from deployment, operators, instructors
and evaluators will be placed in restricted status until all missed training/evaluation requirements
are satisfied. Additionally, any training/evaluation conducted while deployed will be annotated
in the individual’s training record.
                                           Chapter 8

                     CHANGES, WAIVERS AND CLARIFICATIONS

8.1. Changes. Forward recommended changes to this instruction via memorandum or AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through 14 AF/A3V to HQ AFSPC/A3TT,
150 Vandenberg Street Ste 1105, Peterson AFB CO 80914-4240, or a3tt.wf@us.af.mil. Provide
information copies to HQ AFSPC/IGIO, igio.wf@us.af.mil.

8.2. Waivers. Due to unique local situations, units may request a waiver to the requirements of
this instruction. HQ AFSPC/A3T is the waiver authority for this instruction unless specifically
stated otherwise. Waivers will be granted on an individual and controlled basis. Waiver authority
may not be delegated.

   8.2.1. Forward all waiver request memorandums via email through the applicable OG/CC
   and 14 AF/A3 to HQ AFSPC/A3T. Describe the specific requirement and state the reason a
   waiver is required. Include risk management steps, as needed. Indicate when the waiver will
   no longer be required. Intermediate command levels will recommend approval or disapproval
   of the waiver request.

   8.2.2. If approved, waivers stay in effect for the life of the publication, unless  HQ
   AFSPC/A3T specifies a shorter period of time, cancels in writing, or issues a change that
   alters the basis for the waiver.

   8.2.3. AF Reserve units. HQ AFRC/A3T is the waiver authority for this instruction for
   reserve units. AFSPC gained units will process waivers IAW paragraph 8.2 through their
   appropriate reserve group commander. The appropriate reserve group commander will
   submit waiver requests through 10 AF/A3 to HQ AFRC/A3T. HQ AFRC/A3T will provide a
   copy of the waiver request and HQ AFRC/A3T waiver decision to HQ AFSPC/A3T.

   8.2.4. ANG units. ANG space units will process all waiver requests through NGB/A3C
   IAW the NGB/A1 Plain Talk on Waivers Guide. NGB/A3C will be the final approval
   authority for enlisted waiver packages. AF/A3Z-ST will be the final approval authority for
   officer waivers after NGB/A3C has reviewed and provided their recommendation. NGB/A3C
   will provide a copy of approved/disapproved waivers to HQ AFSPC/A3TT.

8.3. Clarifications. Process requests for clarification via memorandum through OG/CCs and
14 AF/A3V to HQ AFSPC/A3T. Referencing the applicable paragraph(s), describe in sufficient
detail the issue requiring clarification. The NAF will provide a 14 AF position prior to
forwarding to HQ AFSPC/A3T.



                                            JACK WEINSTEIN, Maj Gen, USAF
                                            Director of Air, Space and Cyberspace Operations
                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFDD1-1, Leadership and Force Development, 8 November 2011
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 30 October 2006
AFPD 10-12, Space, 1 February 1996
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011
AFI 10-1201, Space Operations, 25 July 1994
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFI 36-2616, Trained Personnel Requirements, 10 December 1993
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 March 2011
AFI 38-201, Management of Manpower Requirements and Authorizations, 26 September 2011
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, 1 April 2000
AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development, 1 November 1993
AFMAN 36-2236, Guidebook for Air Force Instructors, 12 November 2003
AFSPCI 10-604, Space Operations Weapon System Management, 1 October 2007
AFSPCI 10-260, Tactics Development Program, 29 November 2011
AFSPCI 10-415, Weapons and Tactics Program, 30 March 2010
AFSPCI 36-283, Space Training System Management, 2 August 2004
AETCI 36-2203, Technical and Basic Military Training Development, 12 August 2009
AFH 36-2235 Vol 1, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems—ISD Executive Summary
for Commanders and Managers, 2 September 2002
AFH 36-2235, Vol 11, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems Application to Unit
Training, 1 November 2002

Prescribed Forms

This guidance memorandum does not prescribe any forms.

Adopted Forms

AF Form 847, Recommendation of Change to Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAC— Assignment Availability Code
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AETCI—Air Education and Training Command Instruction
AFH— Air Force Handbook
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC— Air Force Reserve Command
AFSPCI— Air Force Space Command Instruction
ANG— Air National Guard
ARC— Air Reserve Component
CCDR— Combatant Commander
CFETP— Career Field Education and Training Plan
CFM—Career Field Manager
CMR— Combat Mission Ready
CMDR— Commander
GSU— Geographically Separated Unit
HHQ— Higher Headquarters
HQ— Headquarters
IAW— In accordance with
IQT— Initial Qualification Training
ISD— Instructional Systems Development
IT— Individual Training
JMET—Joint Mission Essential Task
MAJCOM— Major Command
MET— Mission Essential Task
MFM— MAJCOM Functional Manager
MQT— Mission Qualification Training
MR—Mission Ready
NAF— Numbered Air Force
NCOIC— Non-commissioned Officer in Charge
OG— Operations Group
OGV— Group Standardization and Evaluation Office
OJT—On the Job Training
OPSEC— Operations Security
OSS— Operations Support Squadron
PCS— Permanent Change of Station
POE— Plan of Evaluation
POI— Plan of Instruction
PT— Proficiency Training
Q1— Qualification Level 1
Q1—E – Exceptionally Qualified
Q2— Qualification Level 2
Q3— Qualification Level 3
QT— Qualification Training
RM— Risk Management
RQT— Requalification Training
RT— Recurring Training
SAV— Staff Assistance Visit
SCO— Space Console Operator
SME— Subject Matter Expert
ST— Supplemental Training
SW— Space Wing
TDY— Temporary Duty
TEPS— Training and Evaluation Performance Standards
TM— Training Manager
TO— Technical Order
TP—Temporary Procedure
TRG— Training Group
TTP— Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
U— Unqualified
USAFWC—United States Air Force Warfare Center
UST— Undergraduate Space Training
UT— Upgrade Training

Terms

Chief of Training— Refers to Commander of Operations Support Squadron, or Unit Chief of
Training. 14 AF and/or wings will determine association and application of this term for their
respective units.

Combat Mission Ready (CMR)—Space operations personnel who have satisfactorily completed
mission qualification training and maintain qualification and proficiency in the unit combat
mission.

Comprehensive Task/Sub-task List - A list of tasks that identifies specific system tasks and the
proficiency levels required for mission ready status.

Currency— Currency requirements ensure the average crew member maintains a minimum level of
proficiency. To maintain currency a crew member must have received an evaluation, receive RT, and
be trained on all proficiency and knowledge level tasks/subtasks IAW HQ AFSPC guidance.

Deficiency— Inability of a trainee to meet the standard associated with a particular task/subtask.

Evaluator Certification— The process by which individuals become trained and certified to
evaluate a MR/CMR crewmember or student perform operational tasks.

Evaluator Decertification— The status of an evaluator when his or her evaluator certification is
withdrawn. Decertified evaluators may not perform evaluator duties.

Evaluator Recertification— The process by which evaluators regain their evaluator certification.
After recertification, a recertified evaluator may once again perform evaluator duties.

Evaluator Restriction— The status of an evaluator who may not perform evaluator duties but is not
decertified as an evaluator. Once the restricted status is removed the individual may once again
perform evaluator duties.

Initial Qualification Training (IQT)— Formal courses conducted by AETC as listed in the
Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) found at https://etca.randolph.af.mil,
USAF Formal Schools. These courses provide system specific and positional specific training as a
prerequisite to Mission Qualification Training. IQT is also known as Initial Skills Training (IST) by
2 AF.

Instructor Certification— The process by which individuals become trained and certified to
instruct a MR/CMR crewmember or student to perform operational tasks.
Instructor Decertification— The status of an instructor when his or her instructor certification is
withdrawn. Decertified instructors may not perform instructor duties.

Instructor Recertification— The process by which instructors regain their instructor certification.
After recertification, the instructor may once again perform instructor duties.

Instructor Restriction— The status of an instructor who may not perform instructor duties but is not
decertified as an instructor. Once the restricted status is removed the individual may once again
perform instructor duties.

Like Weapon Systems— Multiple systems with similar tasks and equipment used to perform
operations.

Mission Essential Task (MET)— Tasks based on mission analysis that are absolutely necessary,
indispensable, or critical to the success of a mission.

Mission Ready (MR) — Space operations personnel who have satisfactorily completed mission
qualification training and maintain qualification and proficiency in the unit operational mission.

Multiple Input— The presentation of unrelated stimuli/tasks requiring determining priorities among
overlapping actions by the trainee or evaluatee. The presentation may be simultaneous or staggered.

No Go—Trainee has not gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform task without
supervision.

Plan of Instruction (POI)— A training guide outlining how training programs are applied and
administered. It is used to outline annual training requirements, identify minimum training
task/subtask coverage during training sessions, and to schedule, conduct, document MQT for each
crew member.

Plan of Evaluation (POE)— A guide used to ensure task coverage for the evaluation program. It
will identify the evaluations conducted for the entire crew force during an 18-month period and
provide sufficient sampling of crewmember performance to assess overall crew force proficiency.

Position— A grouping of tasks/subtasks assigned to MR/CMR personnel.

Position Certification— The organization’s CC/DO signature of approval stating that all required
positional tasks/subtasks are ―qualified and the certified person can perform mission operations and
are deemed MR/CMR.

Proficiency— Demonstrated ability to perform a task to the Training and Evaluation Performance
Standard.

Proficiency Level— As described by AFMAN 36-2236, figure 3.1, required for mission ready
status.

Related Tasks— Events attributed to the same root cause and occurring simultaneously where one
task logically leads to another.
Required Tasks— Tasks required to be performed by the human component of the system, the
conditions under which these tasks may be performed, and the quality standards for acceptable
performance.

Risk Management (RM)— RM is a logic-based common sense approach to making calculated
decisions on human, material, and environmental factors before, during and after activities and
operations. It is a tool to help you minimize the risks taken while at the same time maximizing
effectiveness.

Scenario— Consists of a specific set of tasks presented in a coherent manner to simulate real-world
conditions and used to train and/or evaluate crew members in a crew environment to the maximum
extent possible. Scenarios are presented in an off-line simulator; however, scenarios may be
presented in a real-world environment.

Sim Switch— A support function comprised of personnel with mission or system expertise, who
interact in a realistic manner with trainees or evaluatees during a performance test. Sim Switch is
used to simulate internal and external agencies and pass and receive event responses, as required.

Subject Matter Expert (SME)— A person who has thorough knowledge of the material being
analyzed. He or she acts as an advisor and critic concerning subject matter during the production and
validation of training and evaluation material. A SME will be mission ready in the respective
position or another closely related position, or for newly established units, appropriate training such
as contractor-provided Type 1 training must be accomplished, if available.

Space Operations— The mission area encompassing space control, space surveillance, missile
warning, satellite operations and spacelift.

Standardization— Interrelated efforts conducted at the MAJCOM, NAF, Wing, Group and unit
levels to develop, adopt, use and maintain policy, procedures, or equipment that are similar in
philosophy and/or specifics where possible. The central goal is to streamline training, evaluating and
operating procedures to maximize mission effectiveness.

Subtask— A subordinate unit of work called upon from a parent task that supports the
accomplishment of a single mission or multiple mission area. Subtasks are reusable and are called
upon (as needed) from a parent task to perform work. Subtasks generally (but not always) focus on
technology capabilities or reporting requirements that are utilized in one or more mission areas.

Task— An independent unit of work carefully selected to reflect mission needs. Tasks are parent to
subtasks.

Task Qualification— The successful completion of a training observation and/or evaluation signed
by an instructor/evaluator and trainee.

Task Standard Level—- Indicates the training and evaluation performance level category for each
task/subtask. Two Task Standard Levels exist: A and B

Trainee— An individual who is not certified IAW this instruction.
Weapon System— A combination of one or more weapons with all related equipment, materials,
services, personnel, training and means of delivery and deployment (if applicable) required for self-
sufficiency. For the purpose of this directive, a weapon system is that portion of the system that
conducts the mission to ensure Space Superiority; Space Global Information Services; Global
Surveillance, Tracking And Targeting; Space Force Application; Assured Access to and Operations
In Space; and C2 of Space Forces.
                                           Attachment 2

        TRAINING AND EVALUATION PERFORMANCE STANDARDS (TEPS)

A.2.1. Groups or Units will develop and 14 AF will publish MR/CMR TEPS in their respective
mission areas. All TEPS will be approved by the 14 AF and will be courtesy copied to
HQ AFSPC/A3T prior to archival. At a minimum, the TEPS will contain all the tasks/sub-tasks
associated with mission accomplishment excluding those deemed ancillary training as defined in
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program. Ensure the TEPS contain all the specific
performance proficiency standards and evaluation constraints (or givens) for each task.
Additionally, assign Air Force proficiency codes, as described in AFMAN 36-2236, to each
mission ready task.

A.2.2. Task Standard Level Descriptions. 14 AF will use three task standard levels: A, B and C.
All tasks/subtasks will be documented in a comprehensive task/sub-task list developed by the
units, approved by 14 AF and coordinated through HQ AFSPC/A3T. Additionally, ensure the
TEPS contain detailed givens/constraints, performance and standards for all critical
tasks/subtasks.

   A.2.2.1. Level A/Critical task/sub-task. Critical tasks are tasks that could result in mission
   failure, endangerment of human life, serious injury or death. Critical tasks have the greatest
   potential for extreme mission or personnel impacts and drive the most stringent training and
   evaluation program requirements. Critical tasks apply to time-sensitive tasks or tasks that
   must be accomplished as expeditiously as possible without any intervening lower priority
   actions that would, in the normal sequence of events, adversely affect task
   performance/outcome.

   A2.2.1.2. Level B/Essential task/sub-task. Essential tasks are tasks deemed integral to the
   performance of other tasks and required to sustain acceptable weapon system operations and
   mission execution. Essential tasks drive significant training and evaluation requirements.
   Operators must accomplish Level B tasks properly without taking any intervening lower
   priority actions that would, in the normal sequence of events, adversely affect task
   performance/outcome.

   A2.2.1.3. Level C/Non-Essential task/sub-task. Non-Essential tasks are rudimentary or
   simple tasks related to weapons system operations that by themselves have little or no impact
   on mission execution. Non- Essential tasks require the least stringent training and evaluation
   requirements. Applies to tasks where no specific time standard is identified. The standard is
   to accomplish the task proficiently IAW technical orders and governing directives.

A.2.3. TEPS Use Guidelines. The TEPS will detail task performance, standards (to include any
applicable timing requirements) and constraints for the express purpose of standardizing training
and evaluation that supports operational mission ready certification requirements. They are
intended for the preparation of training and evaluation materials in a controlled environment and
will not supplement technical data or instructions. They will not be used as guidance to
accomplish a task during evaluation, training, or actual weapon system operation.

   A.2.3.1. TEPS Environment. TEPS will be designed for problem presentation in the
   controlled training (i.e., simulator, part task trainer) environment, however, they will apply to
   training and evaluation conducted in the operational environment. Due to the uncontrolled
   nature of the real world operational environment, instructors and evaluators must be prudent
   in the application of TEPS during training and evaluation in these environments.

   A.2.3.2. TEPS Responses. TEPS may not describe the only correct crew member response.
   Correct responses are determined from technical data and command instructions/directives.

A.2.4. The below information provides assistance in developing TEPS:

   A2.4.1. Identify tasks/subtasks (TASKs) critical and essential for mission accomplishment.

   A2.4.2. Define the task standard level (A or B) for each task/subtask.

   A2.4.3. Group like tasks/subtasks and consolidate in a comprehensive task/subtask list.

   A2.4.4. For Level A tasks/subtasks (optional for Level B), identify the requirements for the
   task by using a set of givens/constraints, task performance requirements and the standard
   (usually a timing requirement) for task accomplishment.

A2.5. Use the sample Comprehensive Task/Subtask List and task requirements tables on the
next pages as examples only.

Table A2.1 (Sample) Comprehensive Task/Subtask List.

 Area &     Description                                                     L    C     C     S
 Task/                                                                      V    M     C     C
 Subtask                                                                    L    D     H     O
                                                                                 R
            Mission Support Operations
 A01        Perform Crew Actions
 A01A       Perform Crew Changeover/Shift Actions                           B    3c    3c    3c
 A01B       NOT USED
 A01C       Log Operational Activities                                      B    3c    3c    3c

 A02        Operate Mission Equipment
 A02A       Use Operational Mission Consoles                                B    3c    3c    3c
 A02B       Use Voice Communications                                        B    3c    3c    3c
            Status Monitoring
 B01        Perform EMI Procedures                                          A    3c    3c    3c
Table A2.2 (Sample) Level A/Critical and Essential Task Requirements

 C01A: Valid Site Report Actions
 GIVENS/CONSTRAINTS
 1. Primary voice communications available.


 PERFORMANCE                       STANDARD
 1. Pass site report to MCC.       1.1. Within 60 seconds of valid L&PI generation.
 2. Select site report.            2.1. Within 60 seconds of L&PI generation when voice
                                   communication is unavailable with the MCC and
                                   datalines are available.

Table A2.3. (Sample) Level B/Non-essential Task Requirements

 C03H: Perform Manual TOES Computation
 GIVENS/CONSTRAINTS
 1. Voice contact is available.
                                              Attachment 3

                               AIR FORCE PROFICIENCY CODES

Figure A.3.1. Air Force Proficiency Codes

                                   PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                          SCALE
                                DEFINITION: The Individual
                          VALUE
                            1   Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown
      TASK                      how to do most of the task. (EXTREMELY LIMITED)
  PERFORMANCE               2   Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest part.
     LEVELS
                                (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)
                            3   Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of
                                completed work. (COMPETENT)
                            4   Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or
                                show how to do the task. (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
                            a   Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task.
        *TASK
                                (NOMENCLATURE)
     KNOWLEDGE
                            b   Can determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.
       LEVELS
                                (PROCEDURES)
                            c   Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each
                                step is needed. (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
                            d   Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.
                                (COMPLETE THEORY)
                            A   Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)
      **SUBJECT
                              B       Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general
     KNOWLEDGE
                                      principles about the subject. (PRINCIPLES)
       LEVELS
                              C       Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about
                                      the subject. (ANALYSIS)
                              D       Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the
                                      subject. (EVALUATION)
                                              EXPLANATIONS
 *    A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a
      level of knowledge for a specific task. (Examples: b and 1b)
 **   A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not
      directly related to any specific task, or for a subject common to several tasks.
 ^    This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in
      the course.
 X    This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to
      limitations in resources.
                                      Attachment 4

                        MR/CMR DUTY POSITIONS (BY UNIT)

    Indicates Combat Mission Ready (CMR) Positions. All others are Mission Ready.

1 ROPS / 2 ROPS
Launch Decision Authority (LDA)
Senior/Mission Flight Control Officer (S/MFCO)
Range Operations Commander (ROC)
Range Control Officer (RCO)
Aerospace Control Officer (ACO)
Operations Director (OD)

2 SOPS / 19 SOPS
Commander (CMDR)
Mission Crew Chiefs (CCH)
Payload System Operator (PSO)
Space Vehicle Operator (SVO)
Space System Operator (SSO)

3 SOPS
Commander (CMDR)
Mission Crew Chiefs (CCH)
Space Vehicle Operator (SVO)
Space System Operator (SSO)

4 SOPS / 148 SOPS
Commander (CMDR)
Space Vehicle Operator (SVO)
Space Ground Link System (SGLS)
Space Ground Link System/Space System Operator (SGLS/SSO)
Extremely High Frequency/Space System Operator (EHF/SSO)

7 SOPS
Mission Commander (MCMDR)
Mission Chief (MCH)
Payload Systems Operator (PSO)
Satellite Systems Operator (SSO)
Ground Systems Operator (GSO)

6 SWS / 7 SWS / 10 SWS / 12 SWS / 13 SWS / 213 SWS / 137 SWS / 20 SPCS
Crew Commander (CMDR)
Crew Chief (CCH)
76 SPCS / 4 SPCS
Mission Commander (CMDR)*
Mission Crew Chief (CCH)*
Space Console Operator (SCO)*

16 SPCS / 380 SPCS
Mission Commander (CMDR)
Mission Crew Chief (CCH)
Space Console Operator (SCO)

2 SWS / 8 SWS / 460 OG Det 1
Crew Commander (CMDR)
Mission Crew Chief (MCCH)
Data System Operator (DSO)
System Crew Chief (SCCH)
Ground System Operator (GSO)
Satellite System Operator (SSO)

8 SWS, Det 1
Crew Commander (CMDR)
Mission Crew Chief (MCCH)
System Crew Chief (SCCH)
Ground System Operator (GSO)
Satellite System Operator (SSO)
Mission Management Operator (MMO)

11 SWS
Crew Commander (CMDR)
Mission Crew Chief (MCCH)
System Crew Chief (SCCH )
Mission Management Operator (MMO)
                                                                                                                 Attachment 5

                                                                    CREW FORCE MANAGEMENT REPORTS

Figure A5.1 – MR/CMR Report (list all MR/CMR duty positions on UMD, even if
currently empty; if not empty provide incumbent)




                                                                                                                                                                                                     Current/Projected MR/CMR
                                                                         MR/CMR Billet? Y/N
               UMD Billet Number


                                                UMD Duty Title




                                                                                                                                                                                       MR/CMR Y/N
                                                                                                                                        First Name
                                                                                                     Last Name




                                                                                                                                                                                                     Position(s)
                                                                                                                                                         Grade


                                                                                                                                                                       AFSC
  Unit




Figure A5.2 – AAC 55 Waiver Report (members granted an AAC 55 waiver)
                                                                                                                  MR/CMR Duty Position(s)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Reason for waiver
                                                                                                                                                     Original AAC 55




                                                                                                                                                                                     Months waived
                                                                                                                                                                        New AAC 55
                                   First Name
   Last Name




                                                                 Grade



                                                                                              AFSC
