BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                             INSTRUCTION 10-103

                                                                        3 SEPTEMBER 2010
                                                         Certified Current 12 September 2012
                                                                                   Operations

                                                   CAPABILITIES-BASED OPERATIONAL
                                                          REQUIREMENTS GUIDANCE



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil .

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: A5XR                                                            Certified by: AFSPC/A5X
Supersedes: AFSPCI 10-103,                                               (Lt Col Todd J. Parks)
            1 February 2009                                                          Pages: 23


This Instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-601, Capabilities-Based
Requirements Development in conjunction with AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Life Cycle
Management. It defines responsibilities for developing and obtaining approval of Initial
Capabilities Documents (ICD), Capability Development Documents (CDD), Capability
Production Documents (CPD), Joint Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and
education, Personnel and Facilities (DOTMLPF) Change Recommendations (DCR) and related
documents. This instruction also establishes the basis for Integrated Concept and Training
Planning Teams (ICT/TPT) and empowers Command Leads (CL) to lead the requirements
generation process and implement the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
(JCIDS)-directed documentation of requirements.        Requirements validation for system
modifications is accomplished by a separate process. Requirements validation processes for
other government agencies are the purview of those agencies, and are not addressed herein. This
instruction applies to Headquarters Air Force Space Command (HQ AFSPC), the Space and
Missile Systems Center (SMC), the Space Innovation and Development Center (SIDC), and the
Air Force Network Integration Center (AFNIC). Electronic Systems Center (ESC) is mentioned
for information only, as they interface with AFSPC for program management. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary

Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route the AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. This publication applies to the Air National Guard; it does not apply to the Air Force
Reserve Component. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
 2                                                                          AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010


publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the AF Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records     Disposition   Schedule    (RDS)    located  at  https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
incorporates policy and process changes resulting from changes to JCIDS processes and policies,
as well as the revision of AFI 10-601. It also incorporates AFNIC roles and responsibilities for
requirements generation as a new AFSPC organization.

        1.      The Requirements Process Overview. ...................................................................         2
        2.      AFSPC Requirements Responsibilities. .................................................................         4
        3.      AFSPC Requirements Development. .....................................................................         11
        4.      Processing Requirements Documents. ...................................................................        17
        5.      Adopted and Prescribed Forms: .............................................................................   18

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                19


1. The Requirements Process Overview. This instruction provides guidance on
responsibilities for the development and validation of capabilities-based operational
requirements within the context of Department of Defense (DoD) and AF processes.
Capabilities-based requirements must be developed in unison with strategic planning, concept
development, integrated program planning, acquisition, as well as programming, budgeting and
execution functions. The JCIDS, the Defense Acquisition System (DAS) and Planning,
Programming, Budgeting and Execution (PPBE) processes form the principal DoD decision
support processes for transforming the military forces that support the National Military Strategy
and the National Defense Strategy. This section provides an overview of these processes and
their relationship to requirements development. Specific roles, responsibilities and processes are
discussed in subsequent sections.
     1.1. Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS). The JCIDS is
     used to support the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) and Joint Requirements
     Oversight Council (JROC) in advising the Secretary of Defense in identifying, assessing and
     prioritizing joint military capability needs, as discussed in Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
     Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3170.01G, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
     and the companion manual, Manual for Operation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and
     Development System. The JCIDS process guides the development of new or improved
     warfighting capabilities identified in joint concepts and integrated architectures. Along with
     the DAS and the PPBE process, JCIDS is one of three DoD decision support processes. The
     JCIDS uses a top-down methodology driven by inputs from the National Security Strategy,
     DoD Strategic Guidance (including Quadrennial Defense Review and National Military
AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                      3


   Strategy), Family of Joint Operations Concepts (JOpsC), Combatant Commanders’
   Integrated Priority Lists (IPL) and AF Operating Concepts (AFOC).
A methodology known as a capabilities-based assessment (CBA) is the analytic basis of the
JCIDS process. It identifies capability needs and gaps and recommends non-materiel or materiel
approaches to address gaps. A CBA may be initiated by any DoD organization. For a detailed
description of the CBA process, reference the JCIDS Manual noted above. For each identified
and validated capability need/gap, a DoD component sponsor (normally a service) is identified
through the JROC process and the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) to develop and
acquire the resulting system/capability with the requisite interoperability to provide capability to
the Joint warfighter. Joint requirements are reviewed, validated, and approved by the JROC,
Joint Capabilities Board (JCB) and subordinate Functional Capabilities Boards (FCB) based on
the level of Joint interest and Acquisition Category (ACAT).
       1.1.1. AF Capabilities-Based Planning. Within the Air Force, capabilities-based
       planning is described in AFI 10-604, Capabilities-Based Planning, and is rooted in the
       Air Force Operational Concepts (previously the AF –Level Concept of Operations
       (CONOPS)). Capability gaps relative to AF operations are identified and prioritized in
       the Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment (CRRA), employing the CBA
       methodology. HQ AFSPC roles and responsibilities with respect to the CRRA are
       outlined in AFSPCHOI 10-212, CONOPS Development/Capabilities Review And Risk
       Assessment Roles And Responsibilities. Based on the results of the assessment, a major
       command (MAJCOM) is identified as the lead command (IAW AF Policy Directive
       (AFPD) 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems)
       responsible for requirements and funding to address CRRA-identified gaps and shortfalls.
       HQ AFSPC/A8X uses its Integrated Planning Process (IPP) to further identify and
       analyze the gaps and shortfalls from a focused AFSPC perspective. The IPP uses the
       CBA methodology, focusing on AFSPC-provided capabilities/solutions to resolve
       gaps/shortfalls as well as identifying future investment strategies. AFSPC/CC-prioritized
       gaps and shortfalls then enter the requirements process. Additional analysis for specific
       gaps and shortfalls may be required to formally engage the JCIDS process at the AF/Joint
       level. A High Performance Team (HPT) develops Air Force requirements documents
       following a Requirements Strategy Review (RSR). The Air Force Requirements
       Oversight Council (AFROC) then reviews and validates these documents (service-
       specific) or forwards them to the Joint Staff, if required. Reference AFI 10-601 for
       additional guidance on the process for requirements document processing at Air Staff and
       Joint Staff levels.
       1.1.2. Concept Development. AFSPC develops operating, functional, and enabling
       concepts for new capabilities in accordance with AFPD 10-28, Air Force Concept
       Development and AFSPCI 10-102, Concept Development. AFSPCI 10-102 directs, "All
       requirements documentation must have, as a basis, an operationally focused, approved
       enabling or operating concept. By doing this, we will ensure operators’ needs are driving
       system development. We will not pursue acquisition programs without well thought out
       and approved concepts." The content and format for concept documents as well as the
       coordination and approval process is delineated in AFSPCI 10-102.
       1.1.3. Analysis of Alternatives. An Analysis of Alternatives (AoA) considers the
       various alternative means to satisfy an identified capability gap. The AoA is led by the
 4                                                      AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010


        capability sponsor, and results in a recommendation for a materiel or non-materiel way
        ahead. For detailed information on AoA processes, reference the Office of Aerospace
        Studies AoA Handbook. A link to the OAS homepage is on the AFSPC/A5X web page
        located                          at                       https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
        af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=s6925EC134A5
        C0FB5E044080020E329A9.
        1.1.4. Architecture Development. The JCIDS Manual and CJCSI 6212.01,
        Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology and National Security
        Systems, requires certified architecture viewpoints (as part of ICDs, CDDs and CPDs) be
        forwarded for validation. These viewpoints are used to assess compliance for net-
        readiness and interoperability. AFSPC is implementing the certification process required
        by AFI 33-401, Implementing Air Force Architectures, for all architecture products
        included in JCIDS-related documentation. All architecture products will be developed in
        accordance with the DoD Architecture Framework (DoDAF). Additional architecture
        models beyond those described in the DoDAF may be developed to complement the
        mandatory models as needed.
     1.2. Defense Acquisition System (DAS). The DAS provides the means by which the DoD
     transforms documented warfighter requirements into fielded new or improved interoperable
     weapon systems. Acquisition activities for the AF are conducted by the various product
     centers. Reference AFI 63-101. AFSPC’s product center, SMC, is a subordinate unit located
     at Los Angeles AFB, CA. SMC is responsible for the majority of space acquisition programs
     for which AFSPC is the Lead MAJCOM. Other product centers, such as ESC, are
     subordinate units of AF Materiel Command (AFMC). ESC is the product center responsible
     for the majority of cyberspace programs for which AFSPC is Lead MAJCOM. Governance
     for acquisition activities depends on the type (space or non-space) of acquisition.
        1.2.1. Space-Related Acquisitions. The Interim Guidance for DoD Space System
        Acquisition Process, issued by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
        Technology and Logistics (USD (AT&L)), governs the decision making framework for
        space-related major defense acquisition programs (MDAP) for the National Security
        Space Program. SMC/CC, at his discretion, may use the interim guidance for non-
        MDAP space programs as well.
        1.2.2. Non-Space Capabilities-Based Acquisitions. Department of Defense Directive
        (DoDD) 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, and Department of Defense
        Instruction (DoDI) 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, cover those
        AFSPC acquisitions not classified as space-related MDAPs (e.g., cyber-related
        acquisitions).
     1.3. Planning, Programming, Budget and Execution (PPBE) System. The PPBE System
     provides the mechanism by which AFSPC justifies funding to pursue materiel and non-
     materiel solutions for AFSPC/CC-prioritized gaps and shortfalls. Funding must be planned
     well in advance of program initiation, based on research and development, procurement, and
     operations and maintenance needs for new or modified capabilities.
2. AFSPC Requirements Responsibilities. This section defines the roles and responsibilities
for organizations involved in defining, developing, documenting, approving, and managing
AFSPC capabilities-based requirements.
AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                 5


  2.1. Command Leads (CL). AFSPC/CV appoints CLs who have overall responsibility for
  all aspects of their respective capability area. CLs are normally O-6 or equivalent and are
  assigned to AFSPC/A2, AFSPC/A3, AFSPC/A5, AFSPC/A6 and AFSPC/A8/9. CLs will do
  the following:
     2.1.1. Apply ―matrixed‖ authority throughout the HQ Staff and space/cyber enterprise to
     provide cradle-to-grave portfolio management for his or her assigned capability area.
     Areas of focus include, but are not limited to, capability-based planning (to include
     CBAs), enabling/operating concept development, requirements documentation (ICD,
     CDD, CPD), developmental and operational testing, PPBE, logistics, integrated
     operational and net-centric architectures, Space Operations Weapon System Management
     (SOWSM) process, sustainment and disposal.
     2.1.2. Lead a Capability Team responsible for interfacing with counterparts throughout
     the Space/Cyber enterprise (e.g., HQ AFSPC, SMC, SIDC, AFNIC, US Strategic
     Command (USSTRATCOM) and its subordinate Joint Functional Component
     Commands, 14 AF (AFSTRAT), 24 AF (AFSTRAT), Air Staff, Joint Staff, national
     intelligence community (e.g., National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA), National
     Reconnaissance Office (NRO)), other service components and other government agencies
     (e.g., Missile Defense Agency, National Oceanographic and Atmospheric
     Administration) to facilitate decision making processes. The Capability Team is
     comprised of all the requisite expertise from across the enterprise for a particular
     capability area (e.g., military satellite communications (MILSATCOM), position,
     navigation and timing (PNT), cyber integration) necessary to facilitate a cradle–to-grave
     approach for the systems and processes integral to the capability area.
     2.1.3. Represent their respective capability area in the AFSPC IPP and overall Corporate
     Process.
     2.1.4. Serve as primary interface to the product center for programs of record (POR)
     (i.e., programs that have achieved Milestone B) within their capability area. The CL
     should participate in acquisition activities including source selection, technical reviews,
     program reviews, and contractor award fee evaluations. The CL also may provide
     program inputs to the Contractor Performance and Reporting System.
     2.1.5. Form ICTs, as required, for the development or sustainment of specific capabilities
     within their capability area. Designate the A5-appointed Requirements Lead (RL) to
     chair an ICT for developmental systems, and the Operations Lead (OL) to chair an ICT
     for sustainment of a system after Initial Operational Capability (IOC) is declared.
     2.1.6. Lead the development and integration of requirements-related operational
     architecture products into the requirements development process and participates with
     product centers in developing system and standards viewpoints. Works with AFSPC/A6
     to ensure consistency of architecture products across the AFSPC enterprise IAW DoDAF
     principles and the AFSPC Chief Information Officer (CIO) roles and responsibilities for
     space and cyberspace capabilities.
     2.1.7. Provide direction and guidance for HQ AFSPC Program Element Monitors (PEM)
     for developmental and operational capabilities within their capability area.
6                                                       AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010


       2.1.8. Coordinate Analysis of Alternative (AoA) Study Guidance and other AoA related
       documents with A5.
    2.2. All AFSPC Directorates:
       2.2.1. Participate in AFSPC Requirements Group, Board and Council (if necessary)
       meetings.
       2.2.2. Retain overall authority for their respective areas of responsibility (e.g.,
       requirements development for AFSPC/A5, plans, programs and analyses for
       AFSPC/A8/9, etc.). Each directorate will support the CLs as required by providing
       representatives to the Capability Teams, ICTs, etc.
    2.3. Directorate of Requirements (AFSPC/A5):
       2.3.1. Responsible for the AFSPC capabilities-based requirements process per
       Paragraphs 3 and 4 of this document for core command capabilities. Sponsors all
       AFSPC capabilities-based requirements documents for presentation to the AFROC and, if
       required, the JCB/JROC. Collaborates with product centers in the development of system
       requirements documents (SRD).
       2.3.2. Ensures standardized requirements processes across the command.           Provides
       oversight for the development, acquisition and fielding of new capabilities.
       2.3.3. Provides guidance and AFSPC priorities for the Science & Technology (S&T)
       community through the S&T Guidance Document. These responsibilities ensure better
       alignment of S&T investments with warfighter needs and Command priorities. Ensures
       appropriate S&T representation on Capability Teams to make certain near-, mid- and far-
       term S&T concerns are considered throughout a capability’s life cycle. Guidance is
       provided in accordance with AFPD 61-1, Management of Science and Technology, and
       AFSPCI 61-101, Space Science and Technology (S&T) Management.
       2.3.4. Appoints, in writing, RLs to support the respective CL when a materiel or non-
       materiel solution is determined to meet an identified capability gap/shortfall per
       paragraph 3.1 of this document. RLs will form and lead capability ICTs at the direction
       of the capability area CL. When the system capability is accepted for operational use, the
       RL is relieved and ICT responsibility is turned over to the OL (normally in HQ
       AFSPC/A3). See paragraph 3 below for more detail on RL and ICT responsibilities.
       2.3.5. Establishes a training program to ensure all AFSPC action officers understand
       their role in the Decision Support Systems as executed in AFSPC. Tracks RL training
       status to certify RLs are properly equipped to represent the Command in requirements
       forums. Manages training quotas for course offerings external to AFSPC (e.g.,
       Requirements 111).
       2.3.6. Chairs the AFSPC Requirements Group and Board.
       2.3.7. Provides AFSPC responses to taskings from Headquarters (HQ) Air Force and
       Joint Staff requesting review of capabilities-based requirements documents.
       2.3.8. Coordinates on Analysis of Alternative (AoA) Study Guidance and other AoA
       related documents. Conducts AoAs in coordination with the CLs and product centers as
AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                 7


     part of JCIDS document preparation using the Office of Aerospace Studies Analysis
     Handbook.
  2.4. Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and Services (AFSPC/A1). Conducts
  manpower studies to validate manpower requirements to meet weapon system platform
  needs; develops manpower estimate reports (MER) in support of capability requirements
  development for new/upgraded systems. Manpower requirements are defined in the
  appropriate JCIDS documents.
  2.5. Directorate of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (A2).
     2.5.1. Responsible for managing and overseeing ISR activities in support of the
     capabilities-based requirements process. Assists in developing, and reviews strategic
     plans and other acquisition-related documents to ensure specific intelligence
     requirements and constraints are documented in accordance with AFI 14-111,
     Intelligence In Force Modernization. Identifies intelligence-sensitive capabilities and
     provides and/or coordinates the expertise necessary to provide appropriate ISR support in
     accordance with AFI 14-111 and appropriate command supplements.
     2.5.2. Using validated or approved intelligence, prepares threat assessments/summaries
     and intelligence supportability portions of JCIDS documents, concepts, AoAs, Strategic
     Plans, and other requirements related documents, studies and analyses prepared by
     AFSPC.
     2.5.3. Coordinates with the Intelligence Community to produce system-specific System
     Threat Assessment Reports (STAR)/System Threat Assessments (STA), as required, and
     Space or Information Operations Capstone Threat Assessments and updates. Participates
     in associated steering groups.
     2.5.4. In coordination with AFSPC/A5, A3 and A8/9, advocates for AFSPC scenario
     requirements and provides supplemental data on foreign forces and concepts in scenario
     baselines used in analysis supporting AFSPC planning, programming and acquisition.
     2.5.5. Assists the CL and RL with the process for obtaining intelligence certification or
     requesting a waiver, as required by CJCSI 3170.01 and CJCSI 3312.01, Joint Military
     Intelligence Requirements Certification.     Reference AFI 14-111 for additional
     information.
     2.5.6. Coordinates with the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) Intelligence
     Squadron (IS) to forecast intelligence costs associated with proposed capabilities. Works
     with acquisition counterparts (PM, Technology Lead, etc.) to ensure intelligence
     infrastructure costs are included in life cycle cost estimates and program budgets.
  2.6. Directorate of Air, Space & Cyberspace Operations (AFSPC/A3).
     2.6.1. Provides an OL to support the respective CL for specific capabilities. Assumes
     oversight responsibilities for capabilities that have transitioned from development to IOC.
     OLs assume leadership of ICTs at IOC.
     2.6.2. Sponsors operational testing of AFSPC systems to ensure the Air Force acquires
     and maintains operationally effective and suitable systems which meet user requirements
     and to identify and help resolve deficiencies per AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and
8                                                      AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010


       Evaluation and AFSPCI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation of Space and
       Cyberspace Systems.
       2.6.3. Provides subject matter expertise to the various Capability Teams for development
       and review of air, space and cyberspace operations related architecture products.
    2.7. Directorate of Installations and Logistics (AFSPC/A4/7).
       2.7.1. Establishes the secure, interoperable, supportable, sustainable, and useable
       (SISSU) concepts for the capability solution. Concepts are documented in the Lifecycle
       Sustainment Strategy and acquisition strategy. Reviews and provides comments to
       product centers for program Life Cycle Management Plans.
       2.7.2. Chairs product center reviews to ensure SISSU considerations are incorporated
       into the development process.
       2.7.3. Responsible for the AFSPC Requirements Validation Board process, per AFSPCI
       63-104, Modifications to Systems and Implementation Approval Process. Modification
       requirements are documented in an AF Form 1067, Modification Proposal.
       2.7.4. Co-chairs HQ Requirements Validation Board, along with the cognizant
       directorate (A3/5/6), to review and validate proposed AF Forms 1067.
       2.7.5. Co-chairs HQ Configuration Review Board, along with the cognizant directorate
       (AFSPC/A3/5/6), to validate proposed prioritizations, review recommended solutions,
       and approve and/or certify AF Form 1067 modification proposals.
    2.8. Directorate of Communications and Information (AFSPC/A6).
       2.8.1. As AFSPC CIO
           2.8.1.1. Facilitates architecture development and integration across AFSPC through
           the AFSPC Enterprise Architecture consistent with the DoDAF. This includes
           developing architecture guidance and frameworks to support consistency and
           integration. AFSPC is implementing the certification process required by AFI 33-
           401, Implementing Air Force Architectures, for all architecture products.
           2.8.1.2. Supports AFSPC organizations in identifying strategies to implement Net-
           Centric tenets. This includes capturing the concepts required by the Net-Ready Key
           Performance Parameter (NR-KPP) components in the appropriate architecture
           products in accordance with the DoD Information Enterprise Architecture and Global
           Information Grid (GIG) guidance.
       2.8.2. As the Designated Accreditation Authority (DAA) for the Air Force
           2.8.2.1. Accredits Air Force systems, space and cyberspace systems assigned by
           USSTRATCOM and Joint Staff, and is the approving authority for connections to the
           AF portion of the GIG, per AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program, AFI
           33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management and DoDD 8581.1E, Information
           Assurance (IA) Policy for Space Systems Used by the Department of Defense, 21 Jun
           05.
           2.8.2.2. Responsible for operating or connecting systems or networks at an
           acceptable level of risk.
AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                             9


     2.8.3. Responsible for validating AFSPC communications needs identified through the
     Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System (CIPS).
  2.9. Directorate of Strategic Plans, Programs and Analyses (AFSPC/A8/9).
     2.9.1. Leads the Command’s integrated planning process; provides interface between the
     IPP and AFSPC/A5 requirements development efforts.                Formulates AFSPC
     Commander’s Intent and AFSPC Functional Concepts as the basis for the IPP. Facilitates
     the IPP using the resources of the Capability Teams under the leadership of the CLs.
     Produces capability area strategy papers, capability plans, and capability roadmaps.
     Publishes the CC’s Long Range Recapitalization Plan as the major output of the IPP,
     identifying potential materiel solutions for AFSPC/A5 to pursue in requirements
     development.
     2.9.2. Leads PPBE process; provides interface between requirements process and the
     programming portion of the PPBE process.          Advocates program funding for
     AFROC/JROC-validated requirements.
     2.9.3. Conducts analyses, such as military utility analyses, to support the IPP, AoAs,
     architecture development, and family-of-systems definition.
     2.9.4. HQ AFSPC POC for AF Operational Concept development efforts and the AF-
     level capability planning process (CRRA).
     2.9.5. Provides OSD(P) approved Defense Planning Scenarios and Joint Staff approved
     Multi-Service Force Deployments documents IAW DoDI 8260.01, Support for Strategic
     Analysis, for analytical efforts. Advises analytical leads on scenario products to meet
     analytical needs/objectives.
     2.9.6. Ensures the capability-based requirements process is adequately supported by an
     appropriate level of wargaming play.
  2.10. Directorate of the Comptroller and Financial Management (AFSPC/FM). Leads
  cost analysis activities in support of HQ AFSPC-led Analysis of Alternative (AoA)
  studies. Provides cost analysis support for HQ AFSPC trade studies and supports economic
  analyses for space system facility requirements.
  2.11. Air Force Network Integration Center (AFNIC).
     2.11.1. Provides subject matter expertise for cyberspace requirements development ICTs
     as needed. Serves as integral members of the AFSPC Cyberspace Capability Teams to
     drive integration of assigned programs and develop AFNet architecture products as
     required in conjunction with the product center in development of JCIDS products.
     Supports HQ AFSPC in development of Cyber domain architectures.
     2.11.2. Cyberspace CLs will coordinate with AFNIC/CC to designate the appropriate RL
     for A5 appointment for AFNIC-assigned Cyber capability programs. The AFNIC/CC
     will ensure the assigned AFNIC personnel are properly certified in accordance with
     paragraph 3.1.1 below.
     2.11.3. Will assess integration and operational Information Technology Requests sent
     from AFSPC from a DOTMLPF, architecture, technology, and bandwidth perspective
     and provide a recommendation to the appropriate AFSPC Cyber Capability Team Lead.
10                                                     AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010


     2.11.4. For programs assigned to AFNIC, will lead ICTs as RL to draft CDDs and CPDs
     on behalf of the appropriate Cyber Capability Team. In addition, the RL will lead in
     adjudication of JCIDS comments and brief the AFROC/JROC as required to facilitate
     CDD, CPD approval.
     2.11.5. Works with AFSPC A4/7 to establish the SISSU concepts for cyber capability
     solutions. Reviews and provides comments to product centers for program Life Cycle
     Management Plans. Drafts AF Forms 1067 for modification proposals for cyber systems.
     2.11.6. AFNIC is the AF Defense Information Systems Network subject matter expert
     for long-haul communications. As such, AFNIC will ensure requirements documents and
     supporting documentation (e.g., the Information Support Plan) consider these critical
     links to ensure interoperability and sustainment of DoD systems.
  2.12. Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC). SMC provides materiel solutions to
  AFSPC requirements, to include the following:
     2.12.1. Accomplishes core development planning to develop acquisition roadmaps,
     develop system concepts, gather space technology needs, develop technology roadmaps
     and system engineering studies, and provide analysis in support of fulfilling AFSPC/CC
     capability priorities. Guidance is provided in accordance with AFPD 61-1, Management
     of Science and Technology, and AFSPCI 61-101.
     2.12.2. Assigns a program office to acquire space capability solutions per the Program
     Management Directive. Provides developmental testing for capability solutions as
     programs mature. At Full Operational Capability (FOC), Systems Wing program
     management responsibilities are typically retained, but may transfer to another agency as
     deemed necessary by SMC.
     2.12.3. Collaborates with CLs and the requisite Capability Team(s) in the development
     of operational requirements documents as participants on ICT/HPTs.
     2.12.4. Provides feasibility assessment for CDDs and CPDs IAW AFI 10-601.
     2.12.5. Leads the development and integration of SRD/TRDs and requirements-related
     system and standards viewpoint architecture products into the requirements development
     process and participates with Capability Teams in developing operational viewpoints.
     Ensures SRD/TRDs are coordinated with the HQ AFSPC prior to release of Requests for
     Proposal to industry.
     2.12.6. Through the SMC Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO), identifies intelligence-
     sensitive capability solutions and assists in the development, coordination and resolution
     of potential intelligence infrastructure deficiencies for new capabilities – establishes and
     leads intelligence support working groups to that end. Works with the program office to
     propose production requirements, statements of intelligence interest, and Foreign
     Materiel Acquisition requests and submits them to AFSPC/A2 for validation.
  2.13. Space Innovation and Development Center (SIDC). Test and integrates potential
  solutions for modification and/or upgrade of existing space systems.
  2.14. 688th Information Operation Wing (688 IOW). Tests and integrates potential
  solutions for modification and/or upgrade of existing cyberspace systems.
AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                 11


   2.15. Electronic Systems Center (ESC).
       2.15.1. Assigns a program office IAW DoDD 5000.1 to acquire capability solutions per
       the Program Management Directive. Accomplishes core development planning to
       develop acquisition roadmaps, develop system concepts, gather technology needs,
       develop technology roadmaps and system engineering studies, and provide analysis in
       support of fulfilling AFSPC/CC capability priorities for programs as assigned. At FOC,
       program management responsibilities may transfer to an agency other than ESC.
       2.15.2. Leads the development and integration of SRD/TRDs and requirements-related
       system and standards viewpoint architecture products into the requirements development
       process and participates with Capability Teams in developing operational viewpoints.
       Ensures SRD/TRDs are coordinated with the HQ AFSPC prior to release of Requests for
       Proposal to industry.
       2.15.3. Through the ESC SIO, identifies intelligence-sensitive capability solutions and
       assists in the development, coordination and resolution of potential intelligence
       infrastructure deficiencies for new capabilities -- establishes and leads intelligence
       support working groups to that end. Works with the program office to propose
       production requirements, statements of intelligence interest, and Foreign Materiel
       Acquisition.
   2.16. AFSPC Requirements Interfaces with Other Organizations.
       2.16.1. Other AF Organizations. AFSPC works with other organizations and agencies
       to define and implement requirements. Other AFMC product centers (e.g., Aeronautical
       Systems Center) acquire or maintain systems for AFSPC that integrate with systems
       acquired by SMC and ESC. The AF Research Labs develop technologies and lead
       demonstration projects necessary for investigating new AFSPC capabilities. Other AF
       MAJCOMs/centers/agencies (e.g., Global Cyberspace Integration Center, AF Intelligence
       Surveillance Reconnaissance Agency, AF Weather Agency) and Headquarters Air Force,
       work together with AFSPC in defining joint space and cyberspace requirements while
       interfacing with the warfighter community.
       2.16.2. Non-AF Organizations. Combatant commands (e.g., USSTRATCOM, United
       States Northern Command, United States Joint Forces Command), the space agencies of
       other services (Army Space and Missile Defense Command/Forces Strategic Command
       and Naval Network Warfare Command), allies/coalition partners, and external agencies
       (e.g., NGA, NRO, National Security Agency, National Aeronautics and Space
       Administration, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Operationally
       Responsive Space (ORS) Office) develop capabilities that interface with AFSPC systems
       as either users or providers of data and information. AFSPC partners with the Missile
       Defense Agency (MDA) to develop, test, field, operate and sustain Ballistic Missile
       Defense Systems. Staff agencies (e.g., National Security Space Office, Office of the
       Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff) work with AFSPC to ensure that requirements, plans,
       and budgets are consistent with strategic guidance.
3. AFSPC Requirements Development. When AFSPC is assigned as the lead command for a
needed capability, per AFPD 10-9, it has the responsibility to develop and document capabilities-
based requirements in accordance with the provisions of AFI 10-601. The CL appoints a RL to
 12                                                     AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010


be the agent for executing this responsibility. The ICT assists the RL in this effort. The AFSPC
Corporate Group and Board review the requirements, while AFSPC/A5X, Policy and Integration
Division, provide functional support for the requirements process and ensures the RL can
successfully navigate the staffing and approval processes within AFSPC and through the Air
Staff and Joint Staff. AFSPC/A5X assists and advises RLs on standardized briefing formats for
HQ AFSPC Requirements Group and Board processes as well as AFROC/JROC briefing
templates, which can be found on the AF/A5RP Portal Page via the AFSPC/A5X Web Page.


   3.1. Requirements Leads. The RL is the focal point for developing, coordinating, and
   gaining approval for the capabilities-based requirements documents. The RL is also the
   primary advocate for the resultant solution. The RL represents AFSPC and AF positions and
   the appropriate CL in the requirements process through each acquisition milestone as
   discussed in AFI 10-601. As such, the RL must be a government employee. The RL will:
       3.1.1. Complete the following training.
           3.1.1.1. DoD Decision Support Systems (DSS) Seminar. The DSS Seminar is
           offered monthly by AFSPC/A5X in conjunction with the ASFPC/DS Staff
           Orientation Course, and must be accomplished within 30 days of appointment as a
           RL.
           3.1.1.2. Operational Requirements Seminar (REQ 111). REQ 111 is normally
           offered twice annually in Colorado Springs by the AF Institute of Technology
           (AFIT). The course is also offered at various locations throughout the AF. Refer to
           the AFIT web page at http://www.afit.edu/ for schedule information. REQ 111 must
           be accomplished within 6 months of appointment.
           3.1.1.3. Headquarters Staff Orientation Training Course (Start Smart). Offered
           monthly by AFSPC/DS for newcomers to HQ AFSPC. Must be accomplished within
           30 days of arrival at the HQ.
           3.1.1.4. Requirements Management Certification Training (RMCT) Program.
           Defense Acquisition University (DAU) has implemented a new, mandatory
           training/certification program for individuals involved in the requirements
           generation/approval process. Two training modules (CLM 041 and RQM 110) are
           available on-line via the DAU web site (link on the AFSPC/A5X web page), and
           must be accomplished within 6 months of assignment.
           3.1.1.5. Concept Development Training. Offered quarterly (and on case-by-case
           basis) by AFSPC/A5X. Must be accomplished within 4 months of arrival at the HQ.
           3.1.1.6. Information and Resource Support System (IRSS) Training. An IRSS
           Training Guide is available on-line at the AFSPC/A5X web site via the AF Portal at
           https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
           af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=s6925EC134A5C0FB5E044080020E3
           29A9.
       3.1.2. Provide advocacy and supporting documentation to the AFSPC PEM as part of the
       PPBE process for obtaining funding for the development of a capability solution. The
AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                   13


     RL may also serve as an AFSPC PEM for PORs (prior to operational acceptance) on the
     related subject area or funding line.
     3.1.3. Brief AFSPC Requirements Groups, Boards and Councils (if required) on
     requirements programs, and present decision briefings. Guidance on briefing formats can
     be found on the AFSPC/A5X web page.
     3.1.4. Regularly update the SOWSM database on the SIPRNet to keep the community
     informed of the status of the program. The RL will keep the CL, AFSPC/A5,
     AFSPC/A3, all pertinent directorates, AFSPC PEM, and program office informed of
     program progress through the ICT.
     3.1.5. Additional process guidance/timelines are available in the Requirements Lead
     Handbook located on the A5X web site.
  3.2. Integrated Concept Team (ICT). When tasked to pursue a capability solution
  (materiel or non-materiel), the RL forms and leads an ICT on behalf of the CL to develop
  requirements for the capability solution. The tasking may be the result of CRRA, IPP, or
  other analysis identified via the CBA methodology. The RL is the chair of the ICT with the
  authority to task members to accomplish the actions needed to develop and coordinate
  capabilities documents. The RL will prepare a charter for the team to be approved by the
  CL.
     3.2.1. The ICT is normally an action officer-level working group. The ICT assists the
     RL in defining the requirements and coordinating the requirements documents. The ICT
     is formed by the CL requesting participation from stakeholders. The team will consist of
     members from each directorate, as necessary, plus other stakeholders who have
     responsibility for operational use, acquisition, sustainment, testing, training, exercises, IA
     and interoperability. The user, product center representative and AFSPC-level PEM are
     key participants of the ICT. In addition, representatives from the capability HPT and
     from other services/agencies in joint mission areas may be members. ICT members will
     keep their organizations informed of program status.
     3.2.2. Training Planning Team (TPT). The TPT is a subset of the ICT and is the
     primary body for identification of training requirements in the acquisition and
     management of training systems. AFSPCI 36-283, Space Training System Management,
     requires AFSPC/A5 to establish a TPT. For a new start acquisition program, it is the
     RL’s responsibility to form a TPT early in the acquisition process (as early as MS A).
     The RL chairs the TPT prior to operational turnover, while the AFSPC/A3 OL chairs
     after turnover. In either case, the TPT Chair is responsible to the CL for all TPT issues.
     The TPT chair has the authority to task any member of the TPT to accomplish actions
     items or write portions of the system training plan (STP). TPT members are from all
     pertinent areas in training system life cycle design, development, acquisition, support,
     modification, funding, and management. HQ Air Education and Training Command
     (AETC) must be co-chair of each TPT IAW AFI 36-2201, Vol 1, Training Development,
     Delivery, And Evaluation. Membership changes as the program matures and the system
     is fielded; however, the TPT conducts planning and management activities throughout the
     system life cycle.
14                                                    AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010


     3.2.3. Once the ICT has drafted an initial set of requirements, the RL requests permission
     to form a HPT at HQ Air Force (HAF) to write the capability document leading to a
     capability solution. The request is in the form of a briefing called the Requirements
     Strategy Review (RSR), and is presented to the Director of Operational Capability
     Requirements (AF/A5R) or his representative, normally via telecom. Once approval is
     gained, the HPT is scheduled to meet, normally in the AF/A5R HPT facility in Rosslyn,
     VA. AF/A5R will provide a facilitator for the HPT. The Requirements Lead is
     responsible for ensuring appropriate expertise is represented at the HPT. Reference the
     AF/A5RP web page via the AFSPC/A5X web page for recommended HPT membership.
     The resultant document(s) will then enter AF- and DoD-wide O-6 level coordination via
     IRSS and the Joint Staff’s Knowledge Management/Decision Support (KM/DS) system.
     Reference AFI 10-601 for staffing processes and procedures.
  3.3. HQ AFSPC Requirements Reviews. After completion of IRSS coordination and
  comment resolution, capabilities-based requirements documents will be reviewed by the
  AFSPC Corporate Process as described in AFSPCHOI 16-10, Headquarters, Air Force
  Space Command Corporate Process. The corporate process ensures senior leaders are given
  quality information for decision making and to provide guidance.
     3.3.1. The AFSPC Group meeting is chaired by the AFSPC/DA5, with the respective CL
     in attendance. All pertinent three-letter offices in HQ AFSPC are invited to attend. The
     RL will present the proposed AFROC briefing for the proposed requirements document.
     The Group thoroughly analyzes all issues and makes recommendations to the RL/CL and
     the Board. AFSPC/A5X produces meeting minutes.
     3.3.2. The AFSPC Board is the second level of corporate review for documents going
     forward to the AFROC/JROC.
        3.3.2.1. For issues proceeding to the AFROC, AFSPC/A5X will schedule and
        announce the meetings and distribute electronic briefing slides at least 3 days prior to
        the scheduled Requirements Groups/Boards.
     3.3.3. The AFSPC/A5 chairs the Requirements Review Board (RRB) when a capabilities
     document is being reviewed for any issues for other requirements/acquisition decision
     forums (e.g., EXCOM briefs, JUONS, Materiel Development Decisions, AoA products)
     that require a command position. All directors in HQ AFSPC, as well as center and
     agency commanders, are invited to attend.
        3.3.3.1. For all issues where the RRB is deemed necessary, the pertinent AFSPC/A5
        division will announce the meeting and distribute electronic briefing slides at least 3
        days prior to the scheduled RRB. In cases where more than one issue is being
        presented, AFSPC/A5X will assume responsibility for scheduling, read-aheads, etc.
     3.3.4. For documents requiring AFSPC/CC certification and/or AFSPC/CC/CV
     transmittal memo, the CL and RL will forward a staff package for CV/CC approval and
     signature. If directed the CL and RL will meet with CV/CC to brief the proposed
     document.
     3.3.5. After AFSPC Corporate Process approval and CV/CC review (if required), the RL,
     through AFSPC/A5X, will schedule and present the requirements document to the
     AFROC for AF approval. JCB /JROC Interest documents (as designated by JS/J8) will
AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               15


     proceed through the JCB/JROC respectively for final approval. This entire process is
     repeated for each subsequent requirements document (CDD and CPD) as a program
     matures.
  3.4. AFSPC/CC Touch Points for Requirements. As commander of the Lead MAJCOM
  with organize, train and equip responsibilities for space and cyber operations, and
  Component-MAJCOM commander to USSTRATCOM for space and cyberspace operations,
  AFSPC/CC must have direct influence in the development of warfighter requirements. As
  such, the CL will prepare briefings and/or staff packages for CC consideration at key ―touch
  points‖ in the life cycle of the concept-to-reality development of requirements. These points
  will include, but are not limited to, enabling concept completion, all ACAT I (or potential
  ACAT I) CDD/CPDs prior to AFROC exposure, and program reviews prior to each
  milestone. The AFSPC/CC must consent to any changes to KPPs or mandatory key system
  attributes (KSA).
     3.4.1. AFSPC/CC-Mandated Requirements.
         3.4.1.1. All new space acquisitions will include space Protection requirements as Key
         Performance Parameters (KPPs) or Key System Attributes (KSAs), where
         appropriate. These requirements will be based upon threats identified in the specific
         System Threat Assessment Report (STAR) or validated threat document if a STAR is
         not available. The requirement applies to all AFSPC systems with CDD/CPD
         entering coordination after February 2009, to include systems without a space
         segment. Comprehensive analysis of threat, impact of loss, countermeasure cost etc.
         will determine whether the KPP(s) or KSA(s) are related to the protection of the
         space, link, ground infrastructure, or cyber system component(s).
         3.4.1.2. Future space acquisitions will also include requirements as Key System
         Attributes (KSAs) for on-orbit checkout (OOC). This will ensure OOC is addressed
         during the acquisition process to ensure risk is appropriately balanced with rapidly
         delivering space capabilities to warfighter.
     3.4.2. Certification/Attestation. AFSPC/CC, along with the Service Acquisition
     Executive (SAE), must certify to SECAF the feasibility of requirements for all ACAT I
     and non-delegated ACAT II CDDs. AFOTEC/CC will provide a separate memo for
     testability certification. AFSPC/A5 will include the AFOTEC testability certification
     with the AFSPC/CC and SAE certification presented at the AFROC. The AFOTEC
     certification memo will be referenced in and attached to the AFSPC/CC and SAE memo.
     3.4.3. AFSPC/A5, along with the respective PM, will attest to the AFROC the feasibility
     of requirements in delegated ACAT II and all ACAT III CDD/CPDs. Reference the
     Requirements Lead Handbook located on the AFSPC/A5X web page for specific
     procedures and templates.
     3.4.4. Transmittal. A transmittal memo will accompany all requirements documents
     loaded into IRSS for AFROC consideration. For ACAT I documents, the transmittal
     memo will be signed by AFSPC/CC. AFSPC/CV will sign the memo for ACAT II
     documents, and AFSPC/A5 for ACAT III documents. Reference the Requirements Lead
     Handbook located on the AFSPC/A5X web page for specific procedures and templates.
16                                                   AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010


     3.4.5. CDDs and CPDs are source documents for product centers to produce
     system/technical requirement documents (SRD/TRD). SRD/TRD to be used in
     conjunction with a request for proposal (RFP) will be coordinated with HQ AFSPC prior
     to release of the final RFP. This ensures common understanding between the
     requirements and acquisition communities regarding capability requirements and
     requirements documents used for solicitation. SRD/TRD for ACAT I/IA programs will
     be sent from the PEO to AFSPC/CC for coordination. ACAT II program documents will
     be sent from the PEO to AFSPC/CV for coordination. ACAT III program documents
     will be sent from the PM to AFSPC/A5 for coordination. AFSPC/CC may delegate
     coordination no lower than one level below these designations.           Reference the
     Requirements Lead Handbook located on the AFSPC/A5X web page for specific
     procedures and templates.
 3.5. Changes to Requirements. Changes that affect previously validated KPPs or
 mandatory KSAs must follow the coordination/approval procedures in AFI 10-601. The
 change may be a new requirement, a new capability solution, or a capability study. When a
 change is identified, regardless of the level of requirement (KPP, KSA or attribute), the RL
 will coordinate the proposed capability-based requirements changes, to include funding
 considerations, with the ICT and all affected stakeholders, to include the program manager,
 and obtain CL concurrence. The CL will coordinate all changes with the appropriate PM (or
 designee) to determine if changes will affect the acquisition program baseline. The CL and
 PM must agree to the scope and timing of any changes (to include program
 funding/scheduling impact) prior to final approval by AFSPC/A5 through the Group/Board
 process, and forwarding to the AFROC for validation, if required IAW AFI 10-601.
 AFSPC/A5, after board approval, will present changes to KPPs and/or mandatory KSAs to
 AFSPC/CC for approval prior to initiating the AFROC process. To avoid superfluous
 changes to requirements during program execution, the CL, in conjunction with the PM and
 the operator, should develop an Expectations Management Agreement (EMA) in the early
 stages of the program. An EMA is a jointly developed and formally documented agreement
 between the Program Manager, AFSPC/A5, the MDA and the CL to proactively resolve or
 de-conflict potential issues to include cost, schedule and performance expectations over the
 life of the program. An effective EMA can help control requirements creep in ongoing
 programs. Refer to AFI 63-101 for more information on EMAs. This paragraph applies to
 programs prior to operational acceptance/handover to AFSPC/A3. Refer to AFSPCI 63-104
 for change procedures post-operational acceptance.
 3.6. Urgent Operational Needs. Urgent operational needs are needs identified through the
 Joint Urgent Operational Needs (JUON) process to prevent mission failure or loss of life.
 When a JUON is identified for AF resolution, it is handled in accordance with AFI 10-601.
 The goal is to provide capability to the operator within 60 days of the validated need.
     3.6.1. AFSPC/A5X is the entry point for JUONs to AFSPC. When a JUON is received,
     AFSPC/A5X will relay the JUON to the appropriate CL to address. The CL will then be
     responsible for JUON processing to completion.
     3.6.2. The assigned OPR will be responsible for all staffing actions, to include gaining
     AFSPC corporate approval and resources, and interface with the appropriate product
     center to to fulfill the JUON.
AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                  17


4. Processing Requirements Documents. HAF Directorate of Operational Capability
Requirements (A5R) is the primary interface at higher headquarters for developing and
approving AFSPC operational requirements through the AFROC. AF/A5R divisions provide the
subject matter expertise to assist with document development, and are the primary Air Staff
interfaces for the RL with respect to technical matters. The AF/A5RP web site (accessible via
the AF Portal and the AFSPC/A5X web site) contains the most recent information on the
implementation of the capabilities-based requirements process within the Air Force. The
products described below are the responsibility of the CL, and are developed by the RL, with
assistance from the AFSPC ICT and Program Office (once established). AFSPC/A5X will
coordinate with AF/A5RP to provide facilitators and a forum for the HPT to finalize drafts for
external (AF/Joint) coordination. The following paragraphs provide a summary of required
processes and documentation. Reference AFI 10-601 and the AF/A5RP web page for additional
guidance.
   4.1. Enabling Concepts. Enabling concepts lead the requirements and acquisition processes
   by articulating - in operational terms - the necessary and supporting capabilities that produce
   the desired effects. An enabling concept must be completed and approved prior to RSR
   initiation. Reference AFSPCI 10-102 for concept development guidance.
   4.2. Requirements Strategy Review (RSR). The RSR is an important first step that drives
   the development of a materiel or non-materiel solution. An enabling concept must be
   completed and approved prior to RSR initiation. Reference AFSPCI 10-102 for concept
   development guidance. It establishes the path and resources necessary to advance through
   each acquisition phase. The strategy addresses the capability required and identifies the
   funding, schedule, testing, deployment, sustainment, interoperability, training, intelligence
   elements, net-centric strategy and other issues. The RL prepares/presents the RSR briefing to
   the AF/A5R (or designee) using templates from the AF/A5RP web site.
   4.3. Initial Capabilities Document (ICD). The ICD establishes the need for a materiel
   solution to address a capability gap identified during the JCIDS analysis. The ICD defines
   the capability gap in terms of the functional area, military operations, timeframe, and key
   attributes. It is supported by the CBA process as described in the JCIDS Manual. HQ
   AFSPC conducts further analyses for space- and cyberspace-related capability gaps/shortfalls
   as part of the IPP to recommend MAJCOM-specific roadmaps for potential solutions. The
   format of the ICD is defined in the JCIDS Manual.
   4.4. Capability Development Document (CDD). The CDD contains the information
   needed to develop a system solution that will provide the capabilities required by the
   warfighter. It will result in an affordable capability that can be effectively acquired,
   supported and deployed. The CDD identifies the KPPs, interoperability requirements
   (including NR-KPP), key system attributes (KSA), as well as an acquisition and sustainment
   strategy as described in AFI 10-601. The ―threshold-objective‖ format is used for each
   attribute. The KPPs and KSAs are inputs to the Acquisition Program Baseline document
   used in acquisition. Detailed guidelines for performance attributes may be found in the
   JCIDS Manual.
   4.5. Information Technology (IT) Box. The IT Box, as defined in the JCIDS Manual,
   recognizes the reality of IT systems that require frequent refresh or update to keep pace with
   evolving technologies throughout the lifecycle of the program. The JROC may approve an
 18                                                      AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010


      IT Box approach to a program, and empower an established Requirements Organization and
      Oversight body to implement the validated CDD requirements without need for a CPD.
      Refer to the JCIDS Manual for additional guidance.
   4.6. Capability Production Document (CPD). The CPD will document refined
   requirements and further analysis leading to a build or low-rate initial production (LRIP)
   decision. The CPD identifies the production attributes and quantities for a single increment
   of an acquisition program. It also provides firm, measurable, and testable requirements in the
   form of performance and support attributes for the production and deployment of a new
   system as described in AFI 10-601. A CDD may be resubmitted and revalidated in lieu of a
   CPD in those cases where the CDD accurately reflects the performance of the system to be
   delivered at LRIP. The format of the CPD is defined in the JCIDS Manual. CPDs for ACAT
   II or below programs may be supported by JUON or JCTD (vice ICD) per CJCSI 3170.01G,
   Enclosure B.
   4.7. Joint DOTMLPF Change Recommendation (DCR). The Joint DCR focuses
   primarily on transformation efforts in the areas of doctrine, organization, training, materiel,
   leadership and education, personnel and facilities as well as policy. Joint DCRs are
   generated by combatant commands, Services or agencies when it is necessary to change
   DOTMLPF resources to meet a capability gap/shortfall. The Joint DCR process focuses on
   changes that are primarily non-materiel in nature, although there may be some associated
   materiel changes (commercial or non-developmental) required. Joint DCRs may request
   additional numbers of existing commercial or non-developmental items. The Joint DCR is a
   capability document that can be used for justification during POM activities.
   4.8. Document Validation/Approvals. The validation/approval process for the ICDs,
   CDDs, CPDs and DCRs beyond internal AFSPC coordination described in para 3.3 above is
   described in AFI 10-601 and the JCIDS Manual.
5. Adopted and Prescribed Forms:
   5.1. Prescribed Forms. No forms are prescribed by this publication.
   5.2. Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; AF Form
   1067, Modification Proposal.




                                            JAMES E. HAYWOOD, Brig Gen, USAF
                                            Director of Requirements
AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                 19


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 03
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 2 Dec 08
DoDD 8581.1E, Information Assurance (IA) Policy for Space Systems Used by the Department
of Defense, 21 Jun 05
DoDI 8260.01, Support for Strategic Analysis, 11 Jan 07
USD/AT&L Memo, Transition of the Defense Space Acquisition Board into the Defense
Acquisition Board with Interim Guidance for DoD Space System Acquisition Process
Attachment, 23 Mar 09
DoD Architecture Framework, Version 2.0, 28 May 09
CJCSI 3170.01G, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 1 Mar 09
CJCSI 3312.01, Joint Military Intelligence Requirements Certification, 23 Feb 07
CJCSI 6212.01E, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology and National
Security Systems, 15 Dec 08
Manual for Operation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 31Jul 09
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 Mar 07
AFPD 10-28, Air Force Concept Development, 15 Sep 03
AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program, 19 Apr 07
AFPD 61-1, Management of Science and Technology, 13 Jun 03
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Life Cycle Management, 17 Apr 09
AFI 10-601, Capabilities-Based Requirements Development, 31 Jul 06
AFI 10-604, Capabilities-Based Planning, 10 May 06
AFI 10-901, Lead Operating Command – Communications and Information Systems
Management, 22 Mar 01
AFI 14-111, Intelligence in Force Modernization, 10 Jan 05
AFI 33-103, AFSPC Sup, Communications and Information Requirements Development and
Processing, 17 Aug 09
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management, 23 Dec 08
AFI 33-401, Implementing Air Force Architectures, 14 Mar 07
AFI 36-2201, Vol 1, Training Development, Delivery, And Evaluation
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 Apr 09
AFI 63-114, Rapid Response Process, 12 Jun 08
 20                                                   AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010


AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 26 Feb 08
AFSPCI 10-102, Concept Development, 15 Nov 08
AFSPCI 36-283, Space Training System Management, 2 Aug 04
AFSPCI 61-101, Space Science and Technology (S&T) Management, 18 Oct 07
AFSPCI 63-104, Modifications to Systems and Implementation Approval Process, 2 Jan 07
AFSPCI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation of Space and Cyberspace Systems, 16
Jun 08
AFSPCHOI 10-212, Conops Development/Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment Roles And
Responsibilities
AFSPCHOI 16-10, Headquarters Air Force Space Command Corporate Process, 1 Mar 07
Analysis [AoA] Handbook – A Guide for Performing Analysis Studies: For Analysis of
Alternatives or Functional Solution Analyses, Jul 04, www.oas.kirtland.af.mil,
HQ AFSPC/A5X Web Page: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=s6925EC134A5C0FB5E044080020E329A9
AFSPC Requirements Lead Handbook, Dec 09
IRSS Training Guide, May 08

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A1— Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and Services
A2— Directorate of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
A3— Directorate of Air, Space & Cyberspace Operations
A4/A7— Directorate of Installations and Logistics
A5— Directorate of Requirements
A5X— Policy and Integration Division
A6— Directorate of Communications and Information
A6C— Command Capabilities and Integration Division
A8/A9— Directorate of Plans, Programs and Analyses
ACAT— Acquisition Category
AETC— Air Education and Training Command
AF— Air Force
AF/A5R— Directorate of Operational Capability Requirements
AFIT— Air Force Institute of Technology
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                         21


AFMC— Air Force Materiel Command
AFNIC— Air Force Network Integration Center
AFOC— Air Force Operating Concept
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFRL— Air Force Research Lab
AFROC— Air Force Requirements for Operational Capabilities Council
AFSPC— Air Force Space Command
AFSPCI— Air Force Space Command Instruction
AFSTRAT— Air Forces Strategic
AoA— Analysis of Alternatives
CBA— Capabilities-Based Assessment
CDD— Capability Development Document
CIO— Chief Information Officer
CJCS— Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
CJCSI— Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CL— Command Lead
CONOPS— Concept of Operations
CPD— Capability Production Document
CRRA— Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment
DAA— Designated Approving Authority
DAS— Defense Acquisition System
DAU— Defense Acquisition University
DCR— DOTMLPF Change Recommendation
DoD— Department of Defense
DoDAF— DoD Architecture Framework
DoDD— Department of Defense Directive
DoDI— Department of Defense Instruction
DOTMLPF— Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and education, Personnel,
and Facilities
DSS— Decision Support Systems
EMA— Expectation Management Agreement
ESC— Electronic Systems Center
FOC— Full Operational Capability
 22                                                 AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010


GIG— Global Information Grid
HAF— Headquarters Air Force
HPT— High Performance Team
HQ— Headquarters
IA— Information Assurance
ICD— Initial Capabilities Document
ICT— Integrated Concept Team
IOC— Initial Operational Capability
IPP— Integrated Planning Process
IRSS— Information and Resource Support System
IWN— Immediate Warfighter Need
JCB— Joint Capabilities Board
JCIDS— Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JOpsC— Family of Joint Operations Concepts
JROC— Joint Requirements Oversight Council
JUON— Joint Urgent Operational Need
KPP— Key Performance Parameter
KSA— Key System Attribute
LCSP— Life Cycle Sustainment Plan
MAJCOM— Major Command
MDA— Missile Defense Agency or Milestone Decision Authority
MDAP— Major Defense Acquisition Program
MER— Manpower Estimate Report
MILSATCOM— Military Satellite Communications
NGA— National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
NR-KPP—Net Ready-Key Performance Parameter
NRO— National Reconnaissance Office
OL— Operations Lead
OSD— Office of the Secretary of Defense
PEM— Program Element Monitor
PNT— Position, Navigation and Timing
POR— Program of Record
AFSPCI10-103 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                      23


PPBE— Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution
RL— Requirements Lead
RMCP— Requirements Management Certification Program
RSR— Requirements Strategy Review
S&T— Science and Technology
SIDC— Space Innovation and Development Center
SISSU— Secure, Interoperable, Supportable, Sustainable and Useable
SMC— Space and Missile Systems Center
SOWSM— Space Operation Weapon System Management
SRD— System Requirements Document
STP— System Training Plan
TPT— Training Planning Team
TRD— Technical Requirements Document
USD (AT&L)— Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics
USSTRATCOM— United States Strategic Command
