BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                                        AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                                                                  INSTRUCTION 36-283
                                                                                                                            2 AUGUST 2004

                                                                                                                                       Personnel

                                                                           SPACE TRAINING SYSTEM MANAGEMENT



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: XOTT (Lt Col Michael M. Cannon)                                           Certified by: XOT (Col Robert C. Keyser, Jr.)
                                                                                                                 Pages: 22
                                                                                                            Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2251, Management of Air Force Training
Systems and reflects guidance in Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-6, Mission Needs and Opera-
tional Requirements; AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapon Systems Management; AFPD
36-22, Military Training; Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements;
AFI 21-114, Managing Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles Maintenance, AFI 21-116, Maintenance
Management of Communications-Electronics and AFI 36-2201, Volume 1, Training Development, Deliv-
ery, and Evaluation. This guidance prescribes the roles and responsibilities, processes and procedures
associated with planning, acquisition and sustainment of training systems that support Air Force Space
Command (AFSPC) operations and maintenance activities. It applies to military and civilian personnel
assigned to Headquarters (HQ) AFSPC and field units as well as Air National Guard and Air Force
Reserve units and members.
      1.     General: ......................................................................................................................    2
      2.     Roles and Responsibilities: ........................................................................................               2
      3.     Planning for Training Systems: .................................................................................                   7
      4.     Training System Requirements Generation and Acquisition: ...................................                                       8
      5.     Support of Fielded Training Systems: .......................................................................                      12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                 15

Attachment 2—TRAINING SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS: CONSIDERATIONS                                                                                      20

Attachment 3—METRIC TEMPLATES                                                                                                                  21
2                                                                      AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004


1. General:
    1.1. AFSPC’s goal is to ensure realistic training capabilities at the optimum level of concurrency,
    fidelity and interoperability to guarantee mission accomplishment and effective joint operations.
    AFSPC, in coordination with Air Education and Training Command (AETC), will provide a seamless
    continuum of initial, unit and supplemental training that results in fully qualified operators and main-
    tainers prepared to support commitments to US Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM), US Northern
    Command (USNORTHCOM), North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) and global
    US military operations.
    1.2. Successful training system management requires effective communications between AFSPC
    units, 14th and 20th Air Forces (AF), the Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC), the Space War-
    fare Center (SWC), HQ AFSPC, the Electronic Systems Center (ESC), the Ogden Air Logistics Cen-
    ter (OO-ALC), AETC and the Air Staff. Within HQ AFSPC, ongoing interaction between the
    Directorates of Air and Space Operations (XO), Requirements (DR), Plans (XP) and Logistics and
    Communications (LC) ensures a command focus on training excellence. As with prime mission sys-
    tems, accurate and timely requirements identification ensures training systems are acquired and sus-
    tained in the right number and configuration to support mission needs. Fundamental to this effort is
    the early identification of training requirements to AETC for their training planning and programming
    processes.
    1.3. This instruction focuses specifically on training systems, acknowledging that traditional weapon
    system acquisition and sustainment processes include training as an integral part of prime mission
    system management. In recognition of the importance of training to the mission; the roles, responsi-
    bilities, forums and processes outlined here apply to training system management across AFSPC
    weapon systems. Numerous compliance requirements unique to training systems are highlighted in
    applicable portions of this instruction. These processes integrate with command planning, require-
    ments, funding and sustainment processes to ensure training systems remain current with prime mis-
    sion system configuration. To accomplish this, AFSPC training systems shall receive the same
    precedence rating as the prime mission systems they support and the same visibility, funding, and doc-
    umentation priority.
    1.4. This instruction uses the “Training System” definition provided in AFI 36-2251: “A systemati-
    cally developed curriculum including, but not necessarily limited to, courseware, classroom aids,
    training simulators and devices, operational equipment, embedded training capability, and personnel
    to operate, maintain, or employ a system. The Training System includes all necessary elements of
    logistic support”.
    1.5. This instruction complements other command documents to provide a comprehensive overview
    of AFSPC training. For example, the Mission Support Plan, Mission Area Plans, and the Space Train-
    ing Roadmap also address specific aspects of training capabilities.

2. Roles and Responsibilities:
    2.1. HQ AFSPC Directorate of Air and Space Operations (XO):
       2.1.1. Establishes standards, tasks and formal training requirements for operations training sys-
       tems.
       2.1.2. Advocates, monitors and allocates funding for fielded operations training systems.
AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004                                                                             3


     2.1.3. Assigns stand-alone training systems to closely-aligned program elements.
     2.1.4. Hosts an annual AFSPC operations training conference.
     2.1.5. Maintains an operations training resource inventory, oversees movement of training
     devices and manages disposition of excess training devices (in coordination with the System Pro-
     gram Office [SPO]).
     2.1.6. Develops, tracks and distributes metrics on operations training system utilization and effec-
     tiveness. Analyzes trends to identify training system shortfalls and new requirements.
     2.1.7. Identifies and prioritizes operational requirements to DR for training system acquisition
     and modification; advocates modification recommendations.
     2.1.8. Uses Instructional Systems Development (ISD) to determine required training equipment
     capabilities.
     2.1.9. Participates on Integrated Concept Teams (ICT) and Training Planning Teams (TPT) for
     systems in acquisition. Assumes responsibility for the prime mission system/training system and
     TPT at operational acceptance/initial operational capability (IOC).
     2.1.10. Ensures training system concepts and requirements are documented in requirements pub-
     lications, the System Training Plan (STP) and the Training System Requirements Analysis
     (TSRA); determines the need for simulator certification (SIMCERT) and simulator validation
     (SIMVAL). Advocates for SIMCERT and SIMVAL funding early in program acquisition.
     2.1.11. Provides trained Mission Ready personnel to support the NORAD, USSTRATCOM and
     USNORTHCOM missions.
     2.1.12. Establishes/develops policy, guidance, standards, tasks and formal operations training
     requirements for space combat operations training and evaluation.
     2.1.13. Ensures AETC involvement in training system modification for timely development of
     training. Provides course training requirements to AF/XOS and AETC.
     2.1.14. Develops operations technical order/manual requirements, monitors accuracy and initiates
     corrective action.
     2.1.15. Manages the operations standardization and evaluation program.
     2.1.16. Identifies test team training requirements to the TPT.
     2.1.17. Ensures operations training device configuration control, quality assurance, and simulator
     certification (SIMCERT) programs.
  2.2. HQ AFSPC Directorate of Requirements (DR):
     2.2.1. Focal point for acquisition and major modification of command training systems. In con-
     junction with the SPO, acquires/modifies training systems concurrent with prime mission systems
     to ensure training system concurrency. Ensures AETC involvement in training system acquisition
     for timely development of training. Advocates, monitors and allocates funding for training-related
     activities for new systems/major modifications.
     2.2.2. Identifies, develops, documents and staffs operational requirements from validation to
     approval, to include SIMCERT/SIMVAL, when applicable.
4                                                                   AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004


       2.2.3. Acquires training systems that meet training requirements through SMC and ESC. Ensures
       space training device acquisition efforts provide required AETC and AFSPC training capabilities.
       2.2.4. Ensures appropriate Type 1 Training is provided in conjunction with system modifications
       and new acquisitions.
       2.2.5. Issues policies, procedures, and guidance for implementation of DoD acquisition guidance
       regarding training system development and management.
       2.2.6. Appoints system command leads as the AFSPC points of contact (POC) for acquisition or
       major modification programs.
       2.2.7. Provides training system acquisition support and guidance to command leads, TPT and
       TSRA teams.
       2.2.8. Chairs TPT for systems in acquisition, participates on TPT for fielded systems.
    2.3. HQ AFSPC Directorate of Logistics and Communications (LC):
       2.3.1. Establishes standards, tasks and formal training requirements for maintenance training sys-
       tems; develops maintenance training and evaluation policy and guidance.
       2.3.2. Manages maintenance training system sustainment activities.
       2.3.3. Jointly responsible with 20 AF/LG for procurement, configuration control and administra-
       tion of the ICBM Maintenance Trainer Program.
       2.3.4. Ensures currency of maintenance training system technical orders and manuals.
       2.3.5. Ensures configuration control of maintenance training devices.
       2.3.6. Develops and monitors metrics on maintenance training device usage.
       2.3.7. Identifies communications/maintenance training system requirements to DR and the TPT.
       2.3.8. Participates on TPT for new and fielded systems.
       2.3.9. Maintains a maintenance training resource inventory, oversees movement of training
       devices and manages disposition of excess training devices (in conjunction with the SPO).
    2.4. HQ AFSPC Directorate of Plans and Programs (XP):
       2.4.1. Programs funding for approved training requirements based on AFSPC priorities.
       2.4.2. Leads and facilitates AFSPC Integrated Planning Process (IPP) activities.
       2.4.3. Develops the AFSPC Program Objective Memorandum (POM) input.
       2.4.4. Develops the Manpower Estimate Report (MER) for new systems.
       2.4.5. Co-chairs the Space Training Technical Planning Integrated Product Team (TPIPT) with
       SMC/AX.
       2.4.6. Participates on TPT for fielded systems.
    2.5. Space Professional Management Office (DPAX):
       2.5.1. Establishes policy, procedures and funding requirements for the Space Professional Devel-
       opment program.
AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004                                                                           5


     2.5.2. Directs policies and issues relating to space professional development, education, training
     and certification.
     2.5.3. Develops, integrates and implements, where appropriate, National Security Space commu-
     nity professional development initiatives.
  2.6. Space and Missile Systems Center:
     2.6.1. Develops, defines, deploys, procures and sustains (logistics support and configuration man-
     agement) space training systems to meet AFSPC and AETC requirements for the life of the asso-
     ciated weapon system (SPOs). Integrates training systems across weapon systems where
     applicable.
     2.6.2. Co-chairs the Space Training TPIPT with XP (AX).
     2.6.3. Participates on TPT for new and fielded systems (AX and SPOs, as required).
     2.6.4. Participates in the annual AFSPC Training conference (AX).
  2.7. Space Warfare Center:
     2.7.1. Assesses training system capabilities during operational test activities, as required.
     2.7.2. Provides space education planning and funding inputs to XP.
     2.7.3. Develops and executes space education programs in coordination with the Space Profes-
     sional Development Office (CVX).
     2.7.4. Participates in annual AFSPC training conference, as required.
  2.8. 14th and 20th Air Forces:
     2.8.1. Provide inputs on training system effectiveness.
     2.8.2. Participate in AFSPC training conferences and TPTs, as required.
     2.8.3. Monitor use of simulators in support of training and evaluation programs.
     2.8.4. 20 AF/LG: Jointly responsible with AFSPC/LC for procurement, configuration control and
     administration of the ICBM Maintenance Trainer Program.
     2.8.5. Convey common space and missile operations training needs to HQ AFSPC/XOT. This
     does not preclude system-unique acquisition or modification. Common training needs may sup-
     port multiple units or locations.
  2.9. Space Wings:
     2.9.1. Conduct quarterly training reviews to assess training system effectiveness.
     2.9.2. Provide inputs on training system effectiveness and requests for training system modifica-
     tions through their respective numbered air force (NAF) to XO and LC.
     2.9.3. Participate in AFSPC training conferences and TPTs, as required.
     2.9.4. Manage unit training device programs.
     2.9.5. Maintain local ICBM maintenance training facilities.
6                                                                    AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004


    2.10. Other Agencies:
       2.10.1. AETC:
          2.10.1.1. Provides ISD advice as required.
          2.10.1.2. Participates on TPT for new and fielded systems, assists in identification of training
          requirements, establishing training strategies, obtaining training resources, and STP develop-
          ment and update.
          2.10.1.3. Develops course resource estimates (CRE) at the request of HQ AF/XOS to identify
          resource requirements for new training requirements, based on AFSPC’s Master Task List
          (MTL). (HQ AF/XOS is the Air Staff proponent for changes to AETC formal training
          courses).
          2.10.1.4. Participates in training system acquisition (HQ AETC/XPR) and identification of
          MTL, manpower, and equipment issues (HQ AETC/DOO).
          2.10.1.5. Plans, programs, and budgets for all of the AFSC-awarding training.
          2.10.1.6. Budgets and programs sustainment costs (operations and maintenance, other pro-
          curement, MILCON) for AETC initial skills and supplemental space operations courses.
          Unfunded AETC requirements are advocated by HQ AF/XOS in coordination with the HQ
          AF/DP Personnel and Training Panel.
          2.10.1.7. Provides training system acquisition support, including support in the development
          and review of requirements documents, Type 1 Training.
          2.10.1.8. Identifies AETC training system requirements to AFSPC/DR during system acquisi-
          tion.
          2.10.1.9. Provides training system analyses and assessments.
          2.10.1.10. Evaluates new training technologies to determine applicability to AF training pro-
          grams.
       2.10.2. Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC):
          2.10.2.1. Conducts Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E) for new/modified systems and
          associated training systems, as required.
          2.10.2.2. Identifies test team training requirements for system OT&E to AFSPC/DR.
          2.10.2.3. Participates on system-specific TPT for which it has testing responsibility.
       2.10.3. OO-ALC:
          2.10.3.1. Develops, defines, deploys, procures and sustains ICBM training systems to meet
          AFSPC and AETC requirements for the life of the weapon system.
          2.10.3.2. Provides configuration management for ICBM operations and maintenance training
          devices.
          2.10.3.3. Provides cost estimates and budget submissions for training device acquisition and
          modification as required by HQ AFSPC/DR.
          2.10.3.4. Responsible for technical data management to include technical orders, technical
AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004                                                                                 7


          manuals and engineering drawings and specifications.
          2.10.3.5. Manages ICBM software baseline for operations and maintenance training devices.
          Incorporates changes to the software baseline as directed by the AFSPC Operational Control
          Board.
          2.10.3.6. Manages the Contractor Logistics Support (CLS) contract for ICBM training
          devices.
          2.10.3.7. Participates in the annual AFSPC Training conference.
      2.10.4. ESC:
          2.10.4.1. Develops, defines, deploys, procures and sustains (logistics support and configura-
          tion management) space training systems to meet AFSPC and AETC requirements for the life
          of the associated weapon system. Integrates training systems across weapon systems where
          applicable.
          2.10.4.2. Participates on TPT for new and fielded systems, as required.
          2.10.4.3. Participates in the annual AFSPC Training conference, as required.
   2.11. Unified Commands, other MAJCOMs, Services, Allies, or DoD Agencies:
      2.11.1. Participate on TPT to ensure their system training requirements are defined and docu-
      mented in the STP.

3. Planning for Training Systems:
   3.1. The AFSPC IPP is the primary means of assessing command mission capabilities in the near-,
   mid- and long-term. XP has the lead for the planning process, with the participation of representatives
   from each of the command’s mission areas: Force Enhancement, Space Support, Space Control, and
   Force Application, as well as Mission Support. Planners use a strategy-to-task approach to develop a
   Mission Area Assessment (MAA) that identifies and prioritizes required mission-related tasks and
   subtasks. Current and planned capabilities to perform the tasks/subtasks are then assessed using
   appropriate measures to determine shortfalls. The shortfalls are prioritized and documented in the
   Mission Needs Analysis (MNA). Next, a Mission Solutions Analysis (MSA) provides fiscally uncon-
   strained candidate solutions to address the capability shortfalls. Finally, XP develops an Integrated
   Investment Analysis (IIA) that provides fiscally constrained profiles based on MAA and MNA prior-
   ities to influence funds distribution.
   3.2. The results of these efforts are documented in Mission Area Plans (MAP) for the Force Enhance-
   ment, Space Support, Space Control and Force Application mission areas and the Mission Support
   Plan (MSP) for the support mission area. These iterative, baseline planning documents forecast mod-
   ernization efforts within each mission area to attain required capabilities. The Strategic Master Plan
   (SMP) is a combination of the information contained in the MAPs and MSP.
   3.3. Traditionally, training is viewed as part of the prime mission system and therefore planning,
   funding and development for the associated training system is embedded in the prime mission system
   processes. Based on this approach, specific training systems will be addressed in each MAP and the
   MSP and ultimately the SMP as a subset of the coverage for the prime mission system. The MSP
   addresses training issues that cross mission areas. Training often constitutes a separate capability and
   frequently requires a separate materiel solution to ensure full mission readiness. To fully address train-
8                                                                      AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004


    ing requirements, planners and functional managers must include specific details on training systems
    in planning documents to ensure full training capability requirements are adequately addressed. The
    combined efforts of XOT, as the advocate for operations training programs; XO system functional
    managers, DR command lead and XPX are required to ensure accurate representation of training
    requirements.
    3.4. In addition to training, the planning process addresses the closely related areas of education and
    exercises. Education efforts are the primary focus of CVX, the Space Operations School in the 595th
    Space Group at the Space Warfare Center and DP continuing education programs. These organiza-
    tions make planning inputs on their programs to XP for inclusion in the MSP. In addition, XOT pro-
    vides inputs on AFSPC role in AF, combined and joint exercises.
    3.5. As part of the MSA process, the Space Training TPIPT explores modernization opportunities for
    AFSPC training, education and exercises. It provides candidate solutions to MNA training deficien-
    cies in all mission areas identified and documented by AFSPC and AETC during their planning pro-
    cesses. The Space Training TPIPT canvasses industry and academia to identify technologies and
    methodologies and offer solutions, developing inputs that cut across mission areas. Membership of the
    Space Training TPIPT includes representatives from AF/XOSO, AFSPC/XO, AETC/XP, SMC/AX,
    ESC, Aeronautical Systems Center (ASC), Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) Human Factors
    Directorate, and industry. The Space Training Acquisition Office (SMC/AXLY) supports this effort
    by participating in concept calls and evaluations, as co-chair (with XPX) of the Space Training TPIPT
    and by providing planning inputs to XPX.

4. Training System Requirements Generation and Acquisition:
    4.1. When a material solution is needed to correct deficiencies identified during IPP, this need is for-
    mally stated in capabilities documents developed by DR. This documentation is the first step in the
    Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS). DR is responsible for identification
    of requirements to SMC and ESC and serves as the liaison between the acquisition and operations
    communities.
    4.2. Training Requirements Identification Process. As prime mission system requirements are
    refined, DR, LC and XO must ensure training requirements are addressed simultaneously. AFSPC and
    the functional communities all play an important role in identifying needed training capabilities.
    AETC provides ISD advice and CRE based on AFSPC-identified training requirements. The process
    will vary depending upon the specific requirements and whether a system acquisition or modification
    is more appropriate. Impact on other training systems must also be assessed. An accurate trained per-
    sonnel requirement and POM inputs are also fundamental to this effort. See AFSPCHOI 16-10, Head-
    quarters Air Force Space Command Corporate Structure for details. The training system must be
    delivered, installed, and logistically supportable by the identified training need date, which in turn
    supports operational acceptance/IOC.
    4.3. DR assigns a command lead to serve as the HQ AFSPC focal point for developing and staffing
    requirements documents and formation of an integrated concept team (ICT) early in the acquisition
    program. For additional command lead responsibilities see AFSPCHOI 10-1.
    4.4. Integrated Concept Team. The ICT assists the command lead in acquisition tasks. The team is
    comprised of action officers from HQ AFSPC and other DoD agencies with expertise in operations,
AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004                                                                           9


  hardware and software engineering, logistics, contracting, safety, security and training. ICT member-
  ship may change as requirements are updated during acquisition.
  4.5. Training Planning Team. The TPT is the primary body for identification of training require-
  ments in the acquisition and management of training systems. DR is responsible for establishing the
  TPT early in the acquisition process (as early as Milestone A/Phase A). The branch chief responsible
  for the prime mission system chairs the TPT, and the command lead serves as alternate chairman and
  team leader to work day-to-day TPT issues. The TPT chair has the authority to task any member of the
  TPT to accomplish actions items or write portions of the STP. TPT members are from all pertinent
  areas in training system life cycle design, development, acquisition, support, modification, funding,
  and management. Membership changes as the program matures and the system is fielded; however,
  the TPT conducts planning and management activities throughout the system life cycle. Once the
  prime mission system becomes operational XO assumes TPT responsibility and chair responsibilities
  transfer to the applicable XO branch chief.
     4.5.1. TPT responsibilities include:


             Advocating for a complete training system, including funding
             Analyzing and identifying training needs
             Identifying training and training resource requirements (AFSPCI 36-2202, Mission Ready
             Training, Evaluation and Standardization Programs, outlines the process for submitting
             new or changed training program requirements)
             Developing the training concept
             Horizontal integration of training systems across weapon systems
             Developing and maintaining the STP
             Documenting training planning decisions and rationale
             Resolving training-related problems and issues
             Supporting the acquisition of training systems
             Determining Type 1 Training requirements and funding
             Identifying and reviewing training documentation (ISD analyses, training materials, etc.)
             Tracking training funding through the command leads, SPOs, and PEMs


  4.6. Key Documents in Training System Acquisition:
     4.6.1. System Training Plan. The STP is an iterative planning document that defines the justifica-
     tion, design, development, responsibilities, funding, resources, support, modification, operation,
     and management of a training system. A STP is required for all AFSPC systems and is approved
     by the TPT chair. Once approved, it is directive in nature and is used by the PEMs to determine
     training priorities for POM funding requests. It supports acquisition and modification processes,
     requirement documents, milestone/phase decisions, and identifies the concepts and strategy to
     attain and maintain desired training capability. In addition, the STP establishes milestones and
10                                                                 AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004


     schedules to ensure training system development, testing, and fielding to support the prime mis-
     sion system at operational acceptance/IOC. The STP also documents the results of training task
     analyses. It is prepared as soon as possible after Milestone A/Phase A and reviewed and updated
     throughout acquisition. It is reviewed annually by the TPT once the system is fielded to ensure
     training system effectiveness and identify requirements for modification or new acquisition. AF/
     XOOT reviews all Acquisition Category I and II STPs. See AFI 36-2251, Attachment 2 for addi-
     tional STP information and format.
     4.6.2. Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Intelligence (C4 I) and Information
     Technology (IT) documentation. The program manager/designated representative must ensure
     applicable documents are accomplished to address certification requirements for incorporation of
     training systems into communications architectures. There are several key documents that may be
     required. The Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Intelligence Support Plan
     (C4 ISP) identifies C4I needs, dependencies and interfaces focused on interoperability, support-
     ability and sufficiency. C4ISP development begins at the initiation of acquisition and continues
     throughout. The System Security Authorization Agreement (SSAA) documents security policy,
     architecture and processes and is a formal agreement among the Designated Approval Authority
     (DAA), Certification Authority, the program manager and the user. The program manager devel-
     ops the SSAA based on DoDI 5200.40, DoD Information Technology Security Certification and
     Accreditation Process. The Certificate of Networthiness helps ensure the system adheres to secu-
     rity policy and is compatible with the Air Force Enterprise Network. The Certificate to Operate
     verifies the system and AFSPC are ready for implementation on the Air Force Enterprise Net-
     work. Connection Approval is the final system certification by the site DAA prior to connection
     with the local infrastructure. Consult LCA for additional information on C4I and IT documenta-
     tion.
     4.6.3. Requirements Documents. Acquisition for space systems is governed by processes and pro-
     cedures in DoDI 5000.2, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System or by National Security
     Space Acquisition Policy 03-01, as applicable. The JCIDS and acquisition management system
     use integrated architectures and an analysis of doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leader-
     ship, personnel, and facilities (DOTMLPF) in an integrated, collaborative process to define
     desired capabilities to guide the development of systems. Required capabilities are described in
     the Initial Capabilities Document (ICD). As acquisition progresses, the Capability Development
     Document (CDD) is used to support program initiation and refine the integrated architecture. The
     Capability Production Document (CPD) defines requirements during Production and Deployment/
     Phase C. DR develops these requirements documents.
     4.6.4. Concepts. Written by XO, operating, functional and enabling concepts articulate required
     capabilities. They serve a critical role in development by providing a focus for capabilities-based
     resource allocation and experimentation throughout the full spectrum of joint and combined oper-
     ations. Concepts also develop an understanding of the linkage between fielded capabilities/pro-
     grams and proposed systems/processes, and the warfighting impact of proposed methods of
     employment, specific capabilities, and potential effects. Concepts impact DOTMLPF.
     4.6.5. Single Acquisition Management Plan (SAMP). The SAMP is a concise, integrated docu-
     ment developed by the program manager that describes all relevant issues, recommends an acqui-
     sition approach and is tailored to specific program needs. The SAMP provides the management
AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004                                                                             11


     framework to support program decisions. Training may be addressed in various sections of the
     SAMP. A SAMP or amendment is required as the result of either:
         1. Acquisition Strategy Panel direction for the initiation of a new program; or
         2. a major change in acquisition or program management strategy, to include changes to
            scope, dollar value, or contract type.
     4.6.6. MTL. The MTL is developed by the program manager or designated representative, coor-
     dinated with appropriate HQ AFSPC/XO divisions and updated by the TPT. It is derived from
     analysis of mission tasks, prime mission and training system tasks, legacy mission equipment and
     additional requirements based on personnel, safety, cost, and environmental constraints. The MTL
     establishes a training requirements baseline and is a necessity for AETC CRE development.
  4.7. Training System Requirements Analysis. A TSRA is a systematic analysis of new prime mis-
  sion systems or major system modifications to determine training system requirements. A TSRA is
  required for all AFSPC acquisitions or as determined by the TPT. The TSRA is a formal, documented
  effort using the ISD process and supportability analyses. Human factors, manpower, personnel, risk
  assessment, training, safety, facilities, and health hazards considerations are key areas of the assess-
  ment. A TSRA should be conducted early in acquisition and address requirements throughout the sys-
  tem life cycle. This includes Type 1 Training necessary to achieve initial and follow-on training. The
  SPO program manager is responsible for the TSRA, working in conjunction with representatives from
  DR, XO, LC and AETC. In most cases, the TRSA is a contractor effort. To facilitate the process, the
  TPT develops a consolidated list of common mission tasks by functional area from the MTTL. See
  AFI 36-2251, Attachment 3 for additional TSRA information.
  4.8. Off-line Requirements. Operations training devices will be physically separated from the oper-
  ational system. All processing for the simulation must occur on a separate computer. Electronic trans-
  fer of information from the operational system to the training system to provide real-world scenarios
  for training purposes is permitted. However, the link between the operational and training systems
  must preclude transfer of data from the training system to the operational system. Inputs from the
  operational system for training purposes will not be injected in real-time via a physical connection
  between the systems. The simulator may connect to a dedicated training network to support AF dis-
  tributed training requirements using real-world C3 systems. The use of tapes, CD-ROMs or other
  transportable media is acceptable. If the simulator is capable of reconfiguration to connect to
  real-world C3 systems, units must establish procedures to ensure crew personnel fully understand cur-
  rent system status to prevent training on an operational system. These procedures and any deviations
  from off-line requirements must be approved by AFSPC/XO. Submit waiver requests to AFSPC/
  XOT.
  4.9. Facilities. Determination of appropriate training facilities and the need for new facilities fre-
  quently requires a site survey. These surveys are led by AFSPC/XPIB with assistance from AFSPC/
  CE, the user and AETC (if applicable). Facility requirements and location must be approved by
  AFSPC and AETC (if applicable) before plans are final. MILCON is programmed and funded by the
  user command unless the MILCON is in support of a lead command-managed acquisition program
  (programmed/funded by the lead command).
  4.10. Technical Orders. Technical orders and space operations procedures used for system opera-
  tions and maintenance must be validated by the contractor and verified by the government. Technical
  orders must have completed the contractor’s validation as a minimum before the start of Type 1 train-
12                                                                      AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004


     ing. If verification has been completed, red-line copies are acceptable for Type 1 training. Final tech-
     nical orders must be available for use prior to the start of formal schoolhouse training. See AFI 21-114
     and AFSPCI 10-1202, Crew Operations, for added details.
     4.11. SIMCERT. An overview of SIMCERT requirements should be included in the STP/SAMP/
     HSI. Initial certification should be complete within 90 days of training device delivery. Additional
     certifications will be completed within 60 days of installation of major modifications. See AFSPCI
     36-2205, Operations and Management of Space Training Devices and individual SIMCERT plans
     for additional information.
     4.12. SIMVAL. An overview of the training system validation requirements should be included in
     the STP/SAMP/HSI. Each simulator acquisition will include a SIMVAL program to support genera-
     tion and employment of required threat representations, the comparison of simulator performance to
     the current intelligence assessment, and the process for correcting deficiencies throughout the life
     cycle of the training system. SIMVAL reports will document significant deficiencies and the impact to
     training.

5. Support of Fielded Training Systems:
     5.1. Once a prime mission system has attained IOC/operational acceptance, responsibility for moni-
     toring the effectiveness and currency of the associated training system transfers to XO. The director-
     ate responsible for the prime mission system is responsible for the training system. The TPT, chaired
     by the XO branch chief with prime mission system responsibility, continues to update the STP
     through annual reviews to ensure funding, schedule, and training requirements are adequately
     addressed throughout the life cycle. An XO representative other than the applicable branch chief may
     serve as alternate chairman and team leader to work day-to-day TPT issues. The TPT charter is
     updated to reflect the new structure. Modifications to fielded systems necessitate concurrent modifica-
     tions to associated training systems.
     5.2. Training System Assessment:
        5.2.1. Training systems for fielded prime mission systems must be continually assessed to ensure
        they meet the user’s needs and are concurrent with the prime mission system. The TPT has pri-
        mary responsibility for this function. TPTs for each system will meet annually to assess training
        system effectiveness. The TPT reviews all aspects of the training system and reports on the health
        of the system to XOT or LCM. Metrics that track utilization and effectiveness of training systems
        support this assessment (see Attachment 3 and AFSPCI 21-114, ICBM Maintenance Manage-
        ment). Units will report metrics for operations training systems to XOT by 31 January and 31 July.
        XOT will provide this data to the TPT to aid in their assessment and identification of new training
        requirements. The TPT’s primary goal is to ensure the STP is current and that training system
        shortfalls are identified and adequately addressed. In assessing training system performance, the
        TPT will review compliance with applicable guidance, trends, use rates, logistics support, funding
        (budgeted and programmed), courseware, configuration management, hardware, software,
        instructor workload, manning and system deficiencies. XOT or LCM will ensure training system
        requirements identified by the TPT are forwarded to the appropriate agency to initiate action.
        5.2.2. Each TPT consists of representatives from XOT, XOS, DR SEIO, XPX, SMC/AX (Space
        Training Acquisition Office-STAO), LCM and ESC (as required) designated in writing. Addi-
AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004                                                                              13


     tional members will be added at the discretion of the TPT chair with the approval of the affected
     division chief.
     5.2.3. Squadron representatives identify, document and track training requirements. Group-level
     training program reviews (such as Standardization and Training Review Panels) generate consoli-
     dated inputs on training system effectiveness and new requirements. The units will conduct quar-
     terly reviews of wing training and evaluation programs, including error analysis, initial and unit
     qualification training issues, simulator utilization, training system deficiencies and other pertinent
     information.
     5.2.4. Prior to the annual TPT meetings, XOT will publish a “Training Call”,requesting inputs
     from the units on operations training system deficiencies or enhancements. Maintenance deficien-
     cies are handled IAW AFSPCI 21-114. Units identify operations deficiencies and recommenda-
     tions using AF Form 1067 to XOT through their respective NAF. The TPT prioritizes the
     deficiencies based on mission impact. This prioritization forms the basis for the TPT input to XOT
     on modifications to each operations training system.
        5.2.4.1. In the case of a funding shortfall, XOT will ensure the appropriate functional manager
        and PEM are aware of the need for corrective action, taking action to identify adequate support
        in the execution, budget, and planning cycles. Coordinate operations training system priority
        in the context of overall system funding with Assistant XO.
        5.2.4.2. Minor changes to AETC courseware are forwarded to the appropriate squadron in the
        381st Training Group (TRG). Major changes are accomplished IAW AFSPCI 36-2202 and
        coordinated through AF/XOS. Course changes with resource impacts require HQ AF/XOSO
        approval. If the changes impact training resources, AETC will normally prepare a CRE needed
        to initiate and sustain the changes (may lead to an AETC POM submission which HQ AF/
        XOS will need to advocate). If AETC resources are available, the changes will be imple-
        mented based on AF/XOSO direction. Insufficient funding requires input by the AFSPC or
        AETC PEM into the command corporate process.
        5.2.4.3. The TPT may identify training shortfalls that require an AFSPC materiel solution,
        either as a modification to an existing system or development of a new system. In this case,
        XOT will identify the requirement to DR to ensure it is addressed by the JCIDS, is validated
        and is reflected in updated requirements documents and the applicable CONCEPTS. The train-
        ing requirement is added to the funding projection for the system it supports. The AFSPC
        PEM is responsible for modifications less than $10 million. Modifications greater than $10
        million and less than $65 million require ICT review of the AF Form 1067 prior to JCIDS
        actions.
        5.2.4.4. Some training programs are not linked to a specific fielded system and therefore not
        subject to TPT oversight. In this case, XOT will review user recommendations to determine if
        new programs or changes to existing programs are appropriate for command training, then for-
        ward the requirement to DR and XP. Funding for these training systems will be included in the
        most closely aligned program element, based on Assistant XO approval.
        5.2.4.5. The TPTs will develop alternate operations training strategies in the STP to be imple-
        mented if funding shortfalls adversely impact training system acquisition, modification, or
        support. Implementation of alternate strategies will not take place without XO approval. Meth-
        odologies that are not compliant with off-line training guidance require a XO waiver, granted
14                                                                     AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004


            for a fixed time period specified in the waiver request.
     5.3. Training System Funding. The STP is the basis for POM inputs for training system sustainment
     and acquisition. Permanent modifications to prime mission systems must include corresponding mod-
     ifications to the training system. Funding for training system modifications for technology insertion,
     performance enhancement, and improved reliability and maintainability shall be included in the prime
     mission funding. PEMs must ensure that funding for training systems is identified during budget and
     POM submissions and accurately tracked during execution to ensure training systems are adequately
     funded.
     5.4. Annual Training Conference. Following the TPT meetings, XOT will host an operations train-
     ing conference. The conference will focus on the key elements of command training systems:
     courseware, facilities, training devices, logistics support, administration and management, configura-
     tion management, instructors and training media. Operations conference participants include repre-
     sentatives from unit OSOT, 14 AF/A3 and 20 AF/DO, SWC, 381 TRG, AETC, SMC/AXLY, HQ
     AFSPC/XO, the SPOs and AF/XOSO.
        5.4.1. Prior to the conference, XOT will request discussion topics and will also consider issues
        surfaced during the Training Call, NAF training/evaluation conferences or identified by the TPTs.
        During the conference, XOT will present a consolidated status report on current and emerging
        command training systems, based on inputs from the TPTs, the PEMs, and DR.
        5.4.2. Action items identified during the training conference will be tracked by XOT until closure.
        XOT will provide quarterly status updates on action items to responsible organizations.
     5.5. Training Device Management. See AFSPCI 36-2205, Operation and Management of Space
     Training Devices and AFSPCI 21-114 for details on acquisition, testing, modification, operation, sup-
     port and certification of training devices managed by XO and LC.
     5.6. Acceptance of Training Systems. Ensure the following prior to acceptance:
        5.6.1. Compliance. The training system must be consistent with the ISD principles, HLA compli-
        ant (as required) and comply with off-line training equipment guidance (see paragraph 4.8.).
        5.6.2. The STP has been completed/updated to reflect required training system capabilities.
        5.6.3. Courseware has been developed and validated.
        5.6.4. AETC resource impacts (manpower, equipment, student manyears, etc.) have been
        resolved.
        5.6.5. If applicable, contractor-conducted training is complete.
        5.6.6. Logistics support and a configuration management process are in place.
        5.6.7. Technical data/manuals have been updated.
        5.6.8. SIMCERT/SIMVAL programs have been established/updated.



                                                      DOUGLAS M. FRASER, Brig Gen, USAF
                                                      Director of Air and Space Operations
AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004                                                             15


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-6, Mission Needs and Operational Requirements
AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapon Systems Management
AFPD 36-22, Military Training
AFI 10-601, Capabilities Based Operational Requirements
AFI 21-114, Managing Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles Maintenance
AFI 21-116, Maintenance Management of Communications-Electronics
AFI 36-2201, Volume 1, Training Development, Delivery, and Evaluation
AFI 36-2251, Management of Air Force Training Systems
AFMAN 36-2247, Planning, Conducting, Administering, and Evaluating Training
AFSPCI 36-2203, Volume 1, 14 AF Training and Evaluation Performance Standards (TEPS)
AFSPCI 36-2203, Volume 2, 20 AF Training and Evaluation Performance Standards (TEPS)
AFSPCHOI 10-1, Mission Needs and Operational Requirements Guidance and Processes
AFSPCHOI 16-10, Headquarters Air Force Space Command Corporate Structure

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFPD—Air Force Policy Document
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
ASC—Aeronautical Systems Center
C4I—Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Intelligence
C4ISP—Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Intelligence Support Plan
CDD—Capability Development Document
16                                                            AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004


CLS—Contractor Logistics Support
CPD—Capability Production Document
CRE—Course Resource Estimate
CS—Contractor Support
DAA—Designated Approval Authority
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
ESC—Electronic Systems Center
HLA—High Level Architecture
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In accordance with
ICD—Initial Capabilities Document
ICT—Integrated Concept Team
IIA—Integrated Investment Analysis
IPP—Integrated Planning Process
IPT—Integrated Product Team
IOC—Initial Operational Capability
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
ISD—Instructional Systems Development
IT—Information Technology
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
MAA—Mission Area Assessment
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAP—Mission Area Plan
MER—Manpower Estimate Report
MNA—Mission Needs Assessment
MSA—Mission Solutions Analysis
MSP—Mission Support Plan
MTL—Master Task List
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NORAD—North American Aerospace Defense Command
OO-ALC—Ogden Air Logistics Center
AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004                                                                       17


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORD—Operational Requirements Document
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
PEM—Program Element Monitor
POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
RDT&E—Research, Development Test and Evaluation
JCIDS—Requirements Generation System
SAMP—Single Acquisition Management Plan
SIMCERT—Simulator Certification
SIMVAL—Simulator Validation
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center (AFSPC)
SMP—Strategic Master Plan
SPD—System Program Director
SPO—System Program Office
SSAA—System Security Authorization Agreement
STAO—Space Training Acquisition Office (SMC)
STP—System Training Plan
STRP—Standardization and Training Review Panel
TPR—Trained Personnel Requirement
TPIPT—Technical Planning Integrated Product Team
TPT—Training Planning Team
TRG—Training Group
TSRA—Training System Requirement Analysis
UQT—Unit Qualification Training
USNORTHCOM—United States Northern Command
USSTRATCOM—United States Strategic Command
VAFB—Vandenberg Air Force Base

Terms
Air Force Enterprise Network—All Air Force network capabilities managed under the three-tiered
Enterprise Network Management structure consisting of Network Control Centers at base-level, Network
Operations and Security Centers at MAJCOM-level, and the Air Force Network Operations Center and
18                                                                       AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004


Air Force Computer Emergency Response Team at the Air Force-level. (AFDD 2-5, Information
Operations)
Concurrency—The condition of ready for training being achieved on the training need date, and the
functions and operation of the training system and its supporting equipment and materials must match the
supported prime mission system.
Contract Logistics Support (CLS)—A pre-planned method used to provide all or part of the logistics
support for a system, subsystem, modification, or equipment throughout its entire life cycle. CLS covers
depot maintenance and, as negotiated with the User Command, necessary organizational and intermediate
level maintenance, software support, and other operation and maintenance tasks.
Human Systems Integration (HSI)—The process of effective integration of human factors engineering,
manpower, personnel, training, health hazards, and safety considerations into the acquisition of prime
mission systems to improve total system performance and reduce costs by focusing attention on the
capabilities and limitations of humans. (See DoDI 5000.2-R).
Instructional System Development (ISD)—A deliberate and orderly process for planning and
developing instructional programs that make sure personnel are taught the knowledge, skills, and attitudes
essential for successful job performance. Depends on a description and analysis of the tasks necessary for
performing the job, objectives, and tests clearly stated before instruction begins, evaluation procedures to
determine whether or not the objectives have been reached, and methods for revising the process based on
empirical data. (See AFMAN 36-2234)
Master Task List (MTL)—Documentation of total training tasks developed for a prime mission system
and its respective mission. It includes the entire spectrum of tasks in each functional area (operations,
maintenance, and support) requiring training. The MTL provides the training task baseline for all
acquisition, modification, support, management, and funding actions through comparison with
predecessor or future prime mission systems.
Prime Mission System—Any weapon system, support system, work station, or end item that supports a
specific military mission, therefore, requiring operations, maintenance, or support personnel training.
Program Manager (PM)—The PM has life-cycle responsibility for the prime mission system. PM duties
include providing assessments of program status and risk to higher authorities and to the operator or
operator's representative; actively managing within approved resources, program cost, performance, and
schedule; and providing assessments of contractor performance.
Simulator Certification (SIMCERT)—The process of ensuring through validation of hardware and
software baselines that a training system and its components provide accurate and credible training. The
process also makes sure the device continues to perform to the delivered specifications, performance
criteria, and configuration levels. It will also set up an audit trail regarding specification and baseline data
for compliance and subsequent contract solicitation or device modification.
Simulator Validation (SIMVAL)—The process for (1) comparing a training device's operating
parameters and performance to current intelligence assessment of a weapon system, threat, and
interaction between the weapon system and threat and (2) documenting the differences and impacts. This
process includes generation and deployment of an intelligence data baseline of the system, comparison of
simulator characteristics and performance, support for the modification and upgrade of the simulator, a
comparison of simulator and threat operating procedures, and correction of any significant deficiencies.
AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004                                                                                19


Uncorrected deficiencies are identified and published in validation reports. The process continues
throughout the lifecycle of the simulator.
System Training Plan (STP)—The STP is an iterative planning document that defines the justification,
design, development, funding, resources, support, modification, operation, and management of a training
system. The STP is designed to provide for planning and implementation of training and to make sure all
resources and supporting actions required for establishment and support are considered.
Technical Planning Integrated Product Team (TPIPT)—TPIPTs are multi-constituent teams of
operators and AFMC/AFSPC laboratories, System Program Offices, development planners, and industry
to generate, consolidate, and analyze an array of concept options and technology needs that address the
operators’ needs.
Training Device—A hardware device that permits learning, development, and the practice of skills and
procedures necessary for understanding and operating the integrated systems of a specific prime mission
system.
Training Planning Team (TPT)—An action group composed of representatives from all pertinent
functional areas, disciplines, and interests involved in the life cycle design, development, acquisition,
support, modification, funding, and management of a specific prime mission training system. The TPT
uses the STP to ensure training considerations are adequately addressed in the prime mission system
acquisition and modification processes.
Training Requirement—The skills and knowledge that are required for satisfying the job performance
requirements and are not already in the students' repertoire.
Training System—A systematically developed curriculum including, but not necessarily limited to,
courseware, classroom aids, training simulators and devices, operational equipment, embedded training
capability, and personnel to operate, maintain, or employ a system. The Training System includes all
necessary elements of logistic support.
Training Systems Requirements Analysis (TSRA)—T h e i n i t i a l s t e p i n u s e r r e q u i r e m e n t s
identification. It consists of mission/task analysis, training requirements identification, objectives/media
analysis, and training systems basis analysis. A TSRA integrates the products of the Instructional System
Development (ISD) process and the Systems Engineering (SE) process to describe the Training System to
be procured. It serves as a required input to the System Training Plan. It is accomplished by the PM.
20                                                                     AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004


                                              Attachment 2

                  TRAINING SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS: CONSIDERATIONS


Initial skills and supplemental training
Unit qualification, mission ready, and recurring training.
Contractor training (course documentation, technical orders, maintenance manuals, and training materi-
als)
Training system sustainment, concurrency
Off-line training systems
Dedicated training devices (e.g. part task trainers, simulators) for equipment familiarization, practicing
performance procedures, developing mechanical skills, and reinforcing academic instruction.
Training system fidelity will be determined by analysis of training requirements using the ISD process.
High Level Architecture (HLA) compliance requirements. The training system operates without impact-
ing or being impacted by other simulation requirements for software testing and development, anomaly
resolution, or operational maintenance.
Training devices meet AFSPC knowledge and task proficiency levels
Trained Personnel Requirements
Key training equipment performance parameters:
       Fidelity
       Emulation capability
       Positional and crew training
       Appropriate spectrum of stimuli
       Multiple scenario presentation modes
       Instructor feedback tools (real time monitoring, playback, audio-visual, classroom-simulator mix)
AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004                                                                                 21


                                               Attachment 3

                                         METRIC TEMPLATES
Units will provide semiannual inputs on operations training devices to XOT by 31 January and 31 July
using the formats and instructions below. XOT will consolidate unit reports to present the overall status of
command training systems.


1. Time to Train: Average Time to Combat Mission Ready (CMR)


Units will report the number of calendar days to complete UQT and certification requirements to bring
IQT graduates to CMR status.


2. Training Device Fidelity/Task Coverage.


Use the Job Performance Requirements List and Proficiency Levels in AFSPCI 36-2203, Volumes 1 or 2
to provide a subjective assessment of training device fidelity in a stoplight chart. Provide narrative to fur-
ther explain the rationale for the rating assigned (see Figure A (3).2.). Our goal is to have training devices
that look, sound, and feel like the actual operational equipment to achieve and maintain required profi-
ciency levels. These systems should emulate appropriate position console displays, messages and opera-
tional support equipment. Fidelity categories:


       Physical (degree of physical representation, appearance, feel and function)
       Functional (data change rates, display response, system performance)


In addition, use the Job Performance Requirements List and Proficiency Levels to indicate the percentage
of the training system’s coverage of designated tasks at the specified level of learning. (See Figure
A3.1.below). Goal: 90%
22                                                                        AFSPCI36-283 2 AUGUST 2004


Figure A3.1. Training System Fidelity/Task Coverage.




3. Simulator Performance.


Utilization: Report Available/Scheduled/Actual hours per month for each training device. Example: 448 /
336 / 331 (device available 16 hours/day [not including scheduled maintenance] x 7 days x 4 weeks = 448
hours, scheduled for 12 hours/day = 336 hours, 5 hours of lost utilization = 331). Include an explanation
for lost training time. The intent is to reflect utilization of available trainer time and lost training time due
to unscheduled maintenance, equipment failure, etc.


Reliability: Mean Time Between Maintenance (MTBM). Average time between maintenance events,
based on operating hours. Tracked by month.


Maintainability: Mean Downtime (MDT). Average elapsed time between loss of mission capable status
and system restoration to at least partial mission capable status. This includes maintenance and supply
response, administrative delays, actual on-equipment repair and other activities such as training and pre-
ventive maintenance. Tracked by month.
