BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND MISSION
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                             DIRECTIVE 5-410

                                                                                    2 MAY 2013

                                                              Organization and Mission – Field

                                                            SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEMS
                                                                         CENTER (SMC)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFSPC/A3OP                                                 Certified by: HQ AFSPC/A3
                                                                 (Major General Jack Weinstein)
                                                                                      Pages: 4


This mission directive (MD) implements policy and guidance in Air Force Policy Directive
(AFPD) 10-1, Mission Directives, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-101, Format and Content of
Mission Directives, AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW)
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Upon mobilization, this mission directive also applies to AFSPC-gained Air National
Guard (ANG) units and members under USC Title 10 status. In addition, it applies to all AFSPC-
gained Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and members.

1. Mission. The Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC) is the center of technical excellence
for researching, developing and acquiring military space systems. The Center is responsible for
providing space and missile systems that include communications, precision navigation and
timing, spacelift, space situational awareness, missile warning, missile defense, weather
monitoring, and satellite command and control to Air Force Space Command (AFSPC), the joint
warfighter, and the nation. These responsibilities include managing these systems across their
entire life-cycle, from initial systems concepts and technology development, to systems
demonstration and validation, full-scale development and fielding, production, and sustaining
on-orbit and ground capabilities. SMC consists of major units, staff directorates and programs in
 2                                                                AFSPCMD5-410 2 MAY 2013


addition to the 61st Air Base Group (61st ABG) which provides infrastructure support as their
subordinate unit.
2. Command. The Commander, SMC:
     2.1. Reports directly to AFSPC/CC.
     2.2. Serves as the Air Force Program Executive Officer for Space (AFPEO-Space) with the
     overall responsibility, authority, and accountability for executing National Security Space
     Programs as directed by the Air Force Acquisition Executive. These responsibilities include
     both directing and executing assigned space development and acquisition programs, as well
     as developing the processes and expertise to manage these programs and the operation of the
     Center.
     2.3. Is responsible for executing the full life cycle of activities for space programs as
     established by law, regulations, and policies and as specifically assigned and delegated
     through the Air Force chain of command and the Department of Defense acquisition
     management chain.
3. Responsibilities. The Commander, SMC:
     3.1. Organizes, trains, and equips Materiel Systems Directorates (or SPOs) to procure space
     systems as described in AFI 63-101. Select and assign key acquisition leaders as Directors
     with relevant experience and credentials. Establish functional directorates, including
     engineering, program management, finance, contracting, logistics, and manpower charged
     with developing and maintaining the expertise, processes, and workforce necessary to plan
     and execute the assigned programs.
        3.1.1. Efficiently develops military space capabilities by conducting integrated
        development planning, Intelligence Supportability Analysis and focused technology
        maturation, to include science and technology needs.
        3.1.2. Develops , acquires, fields, and sustains reliable, effective, and affordable global
        positioning, navigation and timing services and Nuclear Detection System capabilities for
        military, allies, civil, and world-wide users.
        3.1.3. Develops, acquires, fields, and sustains reliable, effective and affordable space-
        based infrared surveillance, tracking and targeting capabilities for the nation to include
        missile warning, missile defense, technical intelligence, and battlespace awareness.
        3.1.4. Develops and maintains (includes configuration control) Space Superiority
        enterprise and solution architecture products on behalf of HQ AFSPC. Develops,
        acquires, fields, and sustains reliable, effective and affordable space control capabilities
        to ensure space superiority for the joint warfighter and the nation.
        3.1.5. Acts as flight worthiness certification authority for Category 1 (DoD) missions and
        for launch vehicles for Category 2 (NRO) missions.
        3.1.6. Develops, acquires, fields, sustains and operates advanced responsive space
        systems, demonstrations, targets, and small launch vehicles.
        3.1.7. Develops, acquires, fields, and sustains affordable space and terrestrial weather
        systems to meet DoD and national program user requirements.
AFSPCMD5-410 2 MAY 2013                                                                        3


     3.1.8. Modernizes and sustains the Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN);
     acquires hardware and software to operationally control DoD/National/Allied/Civil
     satellites.
     3.1.9. Collaborates with Life Cycle Management Command (LCMC) and other product
     centers as applicable to ensure seamless delivery of cross-domain capabilities including,
     but not limited to: Cyber and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance.
     3.1.10. Develops, acquire, field and sustain spacelift and range capability.
     3.1.11. Develops, acquires, fields and sustains operational-level space command and
     control systems to enable military and national objectives.
  3.2. The functional directorates, including engineering, program management, finance,
  contracting, logistics, and personnel, are charged with developing and maintaining the
  expertise, processes, and workforce necessary to plan and execute SMC programs.
     3.2.1. Provides systems engineering (SE) capabilities as defined in AFI 63-101 that
     address architecting, requirements development and management, design, technical
     management and control, and test and evaluation (T&E) / verification and validation
     (V&V).
     3.2.2. Provides advice and contract management to the space community for the timely
     execution of necessary actions to acquire superior weapon systems.
     3.2.3. Efficiently develops military space capabilities by supporting integrated
     development planning and focused technology maturation.
     3.2.4. Provides quality acquisition products, processes, tools and expertise to acquire and
     sustain integrated and affordable systems for the control and exploitation of air and space.
     3.2.5. Provides resource advisors and an independent assessment on the most effective
     and efficient programming, budgeting and execution of funds for acquisition programs
     and SMC infrastructure.
     3.2.6. Provides life cycle logistics capabilities as identified in AFI 63-101 that address
     product support planning and execution for the life of the system/program.
  3.3. Provides Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) that ensures
  baselined characteristics of systems do not degrade as a result of operational use,
  configuration changes, maintenance repairs, aging, parts substitutions or obsolescence, and
  similar activities.
  3.4. Provides Mission Assurance capability assessments over the life cycle of SMC
  programs that identify and mitigate design, production, and test deficiencies that could
  impact mission success.




                                           WILLIAM L. SHELTON, General, USAF
                                           Commander
 4                                                          AFSPCMD5-410 2 MAY 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives, 21 June 2002
AFI 10-101, Format and Content of Mission Directives, 12 February 2003
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 March 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPEO—Space —Air Force Program Executive Officer for Space
AFSCN—Air Force Satellite Control Network
DoD—Department of Defense
LCMC—Life Cycle Management Command
MD—Mission Directive
NRO—National Reconnaissance Office
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
SE—Systems Engineering
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
SPO—Systems Program Office
T&E—Test and Evaluation
V&V—Verification and Validation
