BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                            INSTRUCTION 38-9

                                                                         15 JANUARY 2009

                                                      MANPOWER AND ORGANIZATION

                                                      HQ AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
                                                     ORGANIZATIONS AND FUNCTIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
 ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
 www.e-Publishing.af.mil (will convert to www.af.mil/e-publishing on AF Link) for
 downloading or ordering.
 RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.
OPR: A1FP                                            Certified by: A1f (Col Robert G. Steele)
Supersedes: AFSPCPAM 38-9, 1 May 01                                                   Pages:
This instruction implements and describes the organizational structure and functional
responsibilities of Headquarters, Air Force Space Command (HQ AFSPC) directorates and staff
agencies. It also describes the mission and organization of HQ AFSPC primary subordinate
units: Fourteenth Air Force (14AF) (AFSTRAT), Twentieth Air Force (20 AF), Space and
Missile Systems Center (SMC), Space Innovation and Development Center (SIDC). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located a
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This publication incorporates changes resulting from the implementation of Air Staff directed
MAJCOM ‘A-Staff’ structure and AFSPC/CC Implementation Directive (ID) 08-01. ID 08-01
directed the internal realignment and restructure of HQ AFSPC directorates and staff agencies
and the addition of descriptions of the mission and organization of HQ AFSPC primary
subordinate units: 14 AF, 20 AF, SMC and SIDC.
Chapter 1 - MISSION
       1.1.    Air Force Space Command
Chapter 2 - COMMAND ELEMENT
       2.1.    The Commander (CC)
       2.2.    Vice Commander (CV)
       2.3.    Director of Staff (DS)
       2.4.    Air National Guard Advisor (CG)
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                             2


     2.5.    Air Force Reserve Advisor (CR)
     2.6.    Commander’s Action Group (CCX)
     2.7.    Air Force Smart Operations (CVO)
     2.8.    National Security Space Institute (NSSI)
     2.9.    Space Protection Program Office (SO)
Chapter 3 - OFFICE OF COMMAND HISTORIAN (HO)
Chapter 4 - OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL (IG)
Chapter 5 - OFFICE OF COMMAND CHAPLAIN (HC)
Chapter 6 - DIRECTORATE OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND COMPTROLLER
(FM)
Chapter 7 - OFFICE OF STAFF JUDGE ADVOCATE (JA)
Chapter 8 - OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS (PA)
Chapter 9 - DIRECTORATE OF SAFETY (SE)
Chapter 10 - OFFICE OF COMMAND SURGEON (SG)
Chapter 11 - DIRECTORATE OF MANPOWER, PERSONNEL AND SERVICES (A1)
     11.1.   Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and Services (A1)
     11.2.   Personnel Support (A1K)
     11.3.   Senior Leader Development (A1L)
     11.4    Manpower and Organization (A1M)
     11.5    Services (A1S)
     11.6.   Readiness and Integration (A1R)
Chapter 12 - DIRECTORATE               OF    INTELLIGENCE,        SURVEILLANCE   AND
RECONNAISSANCE (ISR) (A2)
     12.1.   Directorate of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (A2)
     12.2.   Analysis and Application (A2A)
     12.3.   ISR Operations (A2O)
     12.4. ISR Forces (A2F)
     12.5.   Special Security Office (A2S)
     12.6.   ISR Strategy and Plans (A2X)
     12.7.   ISR Special Program Integration (A2Z)
Chapter 13 - DIRECTORATE OF AIR, SPACE AND NUCLEAR OPERATIONS (A3)
     13.1.   Directorate of Air, Space and Nuclear Operations (A3)
     13.2.   Space Situational Awareness and Command and Control (A3C)
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                         3


     13.3.   Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Operations (A3F)
     13.4.   Military Satellite Communications (MILSATCOM) Operations (A3M)
     13.5.   Nuclear and Helicopter Operations (A3N)
     13.6.   Current Operations (A3O)
     13.7.   Positioning, Navigation and Timing (PNT) Operations (A3P)
     13.8.   Resources and Requirements (A3R)
     13.9.   Training, Test, Exercises and Evaluation (A3T)
     13.10. Space C2 and Integration (A3Z)
Chapter 14 - DIRECTORATE OF INSTALLATIONS, LOGISTICS AND MISSION
SUPPORT (A4A7)
     14.1.   Directorate of Installations, Logistics, and Mission Support (A4/7)
     14.2.   ICBM Systems Sustainment (A4N)
     14.3.   Logistics Readiness (A4R)
     14.4.   Space Systems Sustainment (A4S)
     14.5.   Programs (A4/7P)
     14.6.   Resources Division (A4/7R)
     14.7.   Readiness and Emergency Management (A4/7X)
     14.8.   Asset Management (A7A)
     14.9.   Contracting (A7K)
     14.10. CE Operations (A7O)
     14.11. Security Forces (A7S)
     14.12. CAASETA PMO (A7Z)
     14.13. Missile Engineering Squadron (MES)
Chapter 15 - DIRECTORATE OF PLANS AND REQUIREMENTS (A5)
     15.1.   Directorate of Plans and Requirements (A5)
     15.2.   Space Situational Awareness and Command and Control (C2) (A5C)
     15.3.   Space Protection and Information Operations (IO) Requirements (A5D)
     15.4.   Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) (A5F)
     15.5.   Military Satellite Communications (MILSATCOM) (A5M)
     15.6.   Deterrence and Strike (A5N)
     15.7.   Positioning, Navigation and Timing (PNT) (A5P)
     15.8. Launch, Range and Networks (A5R)
     15.9.   Operationally Responsive Space (A5V)
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                         4


      15.10. Policy and Integration (A5X)
Chapter 16 - DIRECTORATE OF COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION (A6)
      16.1.   Directorate of Communications and Information (A6)
      16.2.   CIO Support Team
      16.3.   Mission Capability (A6C)
      16.4.   Net-Centricity (A6N)
      16.5.   Resources, Plans and Policies (A6X)
Chapter 17 - DIRECTORATE OF PLANS, PROGRAMS AND ANALYSES (A8/9)
      17.1.   Directorate of Plans, Programs and Analyses (A8/9)
      17.2.   Basing and International Affairs (A8I)
      17.3.   Programs (A8P)
      17.4. Plans (A8X)
      17.5.   Special Programs (A8Z)
      17.6. Analyses and Assessments (A9A)
      17.7.   Force Structure Analyses (A9F)
      17.8. Lessons Learned (A9L)
      17.9.   Technology Assessment Office (A9T)
      17.10. Chief Analyst (A9Z)
Attachment A - NUMBERED AIR FORCES AND CENTERS
   A1. Fourteenth Air Force (14 AF) (AFSTRAT)
   A2. Twentieth Air Force (20 AF)
   A3. Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC)
   A4. Space Innovation and Development Center (SIDC)
Attachment B - GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                              5


                                            Chapter 1
                                            MISSION


1.1. Air Force Space Command. The mission of Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) is to
defend the United States through the control and exploitation of space. This is accomplished by
operating space systems, providing support from space to terrestrial forces, and operating
ballistic missile forces as a deterrent against nuclear attack; providing assured mission capability,
including ground control support for designated Department of Defense (DoD) satellites, as
required through all levels of conflict; providing warning of a space ballistic missile attack;
providing the ability to protect friendly satellites and to negate enemy spacecraft as directed; and
maintaining the Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) force, people and material. The
mission of AFSPC includes specific responsibilities as both the Air Force component for space
forces and to US Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM) for ICBM forces; and, as an Air Force
Major Command (MAJCOM). These responsibilities are interrelated and also entail specific
relationships with other commands and agencies, both United States and Allied.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                           6


                                           Chapter 2
                                   COMMAND ELEMENT

2.1. The Commander (CC). Organizes, trains, equips, administers, operates, maintains, and
sustains assigned Air Force space and ICBM forces in support of operational commanders.
2.1.1. Exercises administrative command over all assigned AFSPC forces, units, activities,
systems, and installations.
2.1.2. Serves as the Air Force executive agent to conduct Air Force long-range space planning
and doctrine development.
2.1.3. Conducts planning and makes recommendations to the Chief of Staff, U.S. Air Force
(CSAF) for changing current or developing new facilities, systems, organizations, policies,
tactics, and force structure; and for the deployment of forces assigned to or under the control of
AFSPC.
2.1.4. Develops and maintains the Air Force Space Plan as directed by HQ USAF.
2.1.5. Develops operational requirements and advocates need for Air Force space and ICBM
systems.
2.1.6. Provides inputs to HQ USAF on Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System (PPBS)
and Program Objective Memorandum (POM) actions for assigned Air Force space systems, and
those space and ICBM forces.
2.1.7. Advocates modification of assigned space and ICBM assets and reviews system tests,
evaluations, and reports to ensure that operational capabilities meet requirements.
2.1.8. Protocol (CCP). Acts as advisor for all AFSPC Protocol matters. Receives and
schedules visits. Directs and oversees arrangements for visits of foreign and U.S. dignitaries.
Provides guidance on ceremonies and protocol requirements. Arranges social functions for
command section general and flag officers, farewell parties, changes of command, retirements,
and community leader receptions. Formulates Command Protocol polices and guidance and
disseminates policies to subordinate units.
2.2. Vice Commander (CV). Assists in the discharge of the duties and responsibilities of the
Commander, AFSPC, and acts as his principal advisor in the formulation of policies, plans, and
directives.
2.3. Director of Staff (DS). Responsible for coordinating the activities of the Headquarters
AFSPC staff. Interprets and transmits to appropriate staff agencies and subordinate units the
decisions, plans, and policies of the AFSPC Commander and Vice Commander and oversees
their coordinated implementation. Reviews and coordinates on all staff actions. Resolves staff
wide issues. Is the day-to-day liaison between the staff and the Commander and Vice
Commander.
2.3.1. HQ AFSPC Squadron Section (CCQ). Responsible for promoting the health, morale
and welfare of personnel assigned to HQ AFSPC by implementation of quality force objectives
through personal counseling and personnel and administrative management. Administers
military justice, separations/discharges, drug/alcohol/family advocacy and weight/fitness
programs. Directs unit leave, medical and dental, promotion and testing, and special additional
duties programs. Coordinates HQ’s quarterly and annual awards boards and ensures Officer
Performance Report (OER) and Enlisted Performance Review (EPR) integrity. Provides
guidance on military dress, appearance and customs and courtesies. Inspects dormitories for
hygiene and maintenance.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                            7


2.3.2. Executive Services (DSA). Provides executive services to the Command Section to
include planning and executing semi-annual AFSPC Commander’s Conferences and monthly
HQ AFSPC Staff Training Courses.
2.3.3. Building Coordinator (DSB). Manages operations, maintenance and security issues for
AFSPC’s three headquarters facilities. Responsible for building modifications, occupant safety
and welfare. Reviews, coordinates, and approves work requests for building modifications,
maintenance, repairs, and all building outages (electric, water, fire and security alarms). Advises
on availability of floor space and attends all facilities use boards. Provides Quality Assurance
Evaluation (QAE); of all headquarters construction, maintenance and service contracts. Reports
to the host wings Contracting Officer and Civil Engineer all work deficiencies found during
inspections. Operates the entry control post and the security control gate for Building 1 and
oversees all deliveries to the three AFSPC facilities. Manages the entry control/visitor request
program and other related security issues and the physical security of these facilities using
security cameras and interior and exterior security checks. Issues parking tickets as the parking
warden.
2.3.4.    Command Section Information Management (DSI).                      Provides information
management support to the Commander, Vice Commander, and Director of Staff. Additionally,
provides information management support to other command section elements as required.
Interfaces with the command staff concerning administrative matters. Handles all suspense
actions and correspondence tracking for the command section. Serves as the resource advisors
for the Command Section.
2.3.5. Command Presentations (DSV). Operates audio, visual, video/telephone conferencing
equipment and accomplishes scheduling for Hartinger Building Large Conference Room (LCR),
Small Conference Room (SCR), Auditorium and Leadership Development Center. Provides
public address audio support for CC, CV and CCC. Accomplishes off-site presentations for
AFSPC Commander’s Conferences and other CC, CV and CCC level events.
2.4. Air National Guard Advisor (CG). Acts as primary advisor to the Commander, AFSPC
on Air National Guard issues and Total Force Policy. Educates AFSPC personnel on ANG
capabilities and policies and educates HQ ANG and field units about AFSPC policies and
requirements. Plans and executes implementation of the Commander’s Total Force Policy goals
for AFSPC. Responsible for day-to-day support of existing AFSPC-gained ANG units. Ensures
appropriate coordination between HQ AFSPC and the National Guard Bureau.
2.4.1. Command and Control Division (CGC). The Command and Control Division provides
MAJCOM support and oversight to AFSPC gained ANG units conducting missions in Strategic
Communications, mobile, endurable, survivable C4ISR, and High Altitude balloon-borne C2
Operations. Develops and briefs senior leadership on proposals for new DC2N missions in
support of the USAF.

2.4.2. Range, Launch and Satellite Operations Division (CGR). The Range, Launch, and
SatOps Division provides MAJCOM support and oversight to AFSPC gained ANG units in air
and space operations centers, satellite operations, and fixed-site range safety operations.
Champions new ANG space initiatives in space situational awareness, mobile range safety
operations, national asset operations, and space control.
2.4.3. Space Surveillance, Warning and Security Division (CGS). The Space Surveillance,
Warning, and Security Division provides MAJCOM support and oversight to AFSPC gained
ANG units conducting space warning, surveillance, security, and missile operations support
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                           8


functions. Coordinates new initiatives, Air Force Instructions, CONOPS and other documents
with AFSPC & NGB staffs, ANG field units and commanders.
2.5. Air Force Reserve Advisor (CR). Serves as the primary advisor to the Commander,
AFSPC on Air Force Reserve issues and Total Force Policy. Educates AFSPC personnel on
Reserve capabilities and policies and educates HQ AFRC and HQ USAF/RE on AFSPC policies
and requirements. Plans and executes implementation of the Commander’s Total Force Policy
goals for AFSPC. Responsible for the day-to-day support of existing AFSPC-gained AFRC
units. Ensures appropriate coordination between HQ AFSPC and AFRC.
2.5.1. Mission Integration. Oversees integration of Air Force Reserve personnel into AFSPC
roles and missions. Performs studies and analysis of mission integration proposals for Air
Reserve Component (ARC) support of current and potential AFSPC missions. Chairs Reserve
Space Partnership meetings that review opportunities for ARC integration in active duty
missions. Coordinates with HQ AFRC and HQ USAF/RE on integration issues. Implements the
Total Force integration goals of the Commander, AFSPC. Supports Mission Teams and
Functional Managers in development of Program Objective Memorandum (POM) initiatives.
2.5.2. Mission Support. Oversees day-to-day AFSPC support of AFRC units and personnel
supporting AFSPC missions. Provides guidance to AFSPC leadership and staff on plans and
instructions affecting the size, location, organization, distribution, training, mobilization, and
equipping of AFSPC-gained Reserve units and Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA).
Reviews AFSPC wing mobilization plans.
2.6. Commander's Action Group (CCX). Directly supports the Commander, Vice
Commander and Director of Staff of Air Force Space Command. Responsible for all command-
level congressional activity.
2.6.1. Prepares speeches, remarks, briefings, articles and personal correspondence for senior
leadership.
2.6.2. Provides research, critical analysis and brainstorming on issues of interest to senior
leadership.
2.6.3. Prepares background trip books for senior leadership travel.
2.6.4. Maintains mission and special topic briefings.
2.6.5. Tracks, researches, analyzes and reports all congressional issues affecting spheres of
interest to AFSPC senior leadership.
2.6.5.1. Develops congressional testimony
2.6.5.2. Identifies key issues, builds strategies and advises senior leadership on recommended
courses of action.
2.6.5.3. Arranges, determines itinerary and conducts visits to AFSPC facilities by Congressional
members and staff.
2.6.5.4. Interfaces with OSD, Joint Staff, Air Staff, NORAD/NORTHCOM and government
agencies on legislation.
2.7. Air Force Smart Operations (CVO). Responsible for execution of SECAF-directed
program--Air Force Smart Ops for the 21st Century (AFSO21). Formulates and designs strategy
for the Air Force Core Process--Conduct Air, Space and Cyber Operations. Researches,
develops and coordinates AFSPC transformational efforts for CSAF AFSO21 Process Council.
Command's AFSO21 liaison with OSD, Unified Commands, Air Staff, NRO, MAJCOMs, NAFs
and Centers. Directs strategic communication and public affairs plans; prepares AFSPC/CC/CV
on all AFSO21 initiatives.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                                  9


2.8. National Security Space Institute (NSSI). DoD center of excellence for space education
throughout the National Security Space community. Researches, develops and provides world-class
instruction of space system technologies, capabilities, operational concepts, acquisitions and tactics in
support of Joint service strategies to develop certified space professionals across the DoD. The
Headquarters National Security Space Institute (HQ NSSI) provides space power education and training
required to prepare warfighters for joint military operations.
2.9. Space Protection Program Office (SZ). Jointly led by the Air Force and the National
Reconnaissance Office (NRO), SO provides decision makers with a range of information and
options to stay ahead of the increasing threat to U.S. space assets and capabilities. Performs
technical vulnerability assessments, develops concepts to achieve our national space policy and
strategies, and develops integrated plans, requirements, and roadmaps to ensure protection of
U.S. space systems.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                            10


                                            Chapter 3
                        OFFICE OF COMMAND HISTORIAN (HO)

3. Office of the Command Historian (HO). Prepares periodic survey histories, monographs,
and special studies; performs research in response to inquiries; maintains historical archives;
functional area manager for AFSPC field history program; and manages the AFSPC heraldry,
museum and art programs.
3.1. As Advisor to the AFSPC Commander on all historical matters, oversees and manages
historical programs within the command including the field history, museum, and art programs.
3.2. To preserve the historical record of the headquarters and command, it acquires critical
documents and other historical materials for retention in the AFSPC historical archives.
3.3. Prepares periodic histories, historical monographs, and special studies to explain the history
of the headquarters and command and provides historical information from these sources in
response to research requests.
3.4. The office manages the command’s lineage, honors, and heraldry program as well as
records, transcribes, and publishes oral histories of key AFSPC personnel.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                           11


                                           Chapter 4
                         OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL (IG)

4.1. Inspector General (IG). Responsible for conducting Operational Readiness Inspections
(ORI), Nuclear Surety Inspections (NSI), Compliance Inspections (CI), and other applicable
inspections of AFSPC and AFSPC-gained ARC units worldwide.
4.1.1. Implements inspection criteria for inspection activities and Special Interest items (SII).
4.1.2. Manages Command’s Complaints and Fraud, Waste and Abuse programs.
4.1.3. Develops policies that implement the Command’s Gatekeeper function to manage and
monitor AFSPC installation visits and inspections from agencies both internal and external to the
Command.
4.1.4. Responsible for maintaining and updating the Command’s Master Schedule.
4.1.5. Prepares and manages IG Financial Plan.
4.2. Inspection Division (IGI). Responsible for scheduling, planning and executing ORIs,
NSIs, CIs and other applicable inspections of AFSPC and AFSPC-gained ARC units worldwide.
Prepares and manages IG Financial Plan.
4.2.1. Coordinates on all Command-developed policies, strategies, decisions and inspection
checklists. Develops methods of assessment for inspections including sampling size, scenarios
and scoring.
4.2.2. Develops and publishes AFSPC supplement to AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities.
4.2.3. Evaluates SIIs as requested by Air Force IG and AFSPC Directorates.
4.2.4. Functions as Command Gatekeeper.
4.2.4.1. Deconflicts IG activities, outside agency visits, and significant events that impact
AFSPC units.
4.2.4.2. Performs the Master Scheduling functions.
4.2.5. Maintains AFSPC IG portal web page.
4.3. Complaints Resolution Division (IGQ):
4.3.1. Establish procedures to manage and execute the Air Force IG Complaints Resolution and
Fraud, Waste and Abuse programs for non-senior official personnel at MAJCOM level and
below.
4.3.2. Responsible for formulation and development of policies, strategies and decisions
regarding allegations that assert a wrong, injustice, violation, mismanagement, or a report of
conditions detrimental to the operation, mission, or reputation of the Air Force.
4.3.3. Refer criminal allegations to AFOSI, or Security Forces, IAW AFI 71-101V1, Criminal
Investigations. If they decide to investigate a criminal matter, obtain a documented transfer back
to the IG and complete the complaint analysis to determine appropriate resolution path.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         12


                                          Chapter 5
                        OFFICE OF COMMAND CHAPLAIN (HC)

5.     Office of Command Chaplain (HC).                    Serves as Command Chaplain for
NORAD/NORTHCOM, and AFSPC; advises the Commander on religious matters affecting the
command; serves as the ecclesiastical representative with religious leaders and endorsing
agencies dealing with any of the three assigned commands.
5.1. Provides policy and assesses Command-wide relevant religious programs.
5.2. Develops Chaplain Service goals and objectives for Command-wide implementation to
assure comprehensive programs.
5.3. Conducts Pastoral Assistance and Quality of Life visits; briefs commanders on issues
affecting Command personnel.
5.4. Evaluates utilization of chaplain service personnel including readiness/contingency
deployments.
5.5. Evaluates effectiveness of chaplaincy program, logistical and financial management,
professional and administrative program support.
5.6. Ensures assigned personnel are provided religious support.
5.7. Directs training initiatives for assigned chaplains and chaplain service support personnel.
5.8. Conducts Compliance Inspections (CI) and Chaplain Service portion of Operational
Readiness Inspections (ORI).
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         13


                                          Chapter 6
   DIRECTORATE OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND COMPTROLLER (FM)

6.1. Directorate of Financial Management and Comptroller (FM). Manages all aspects of
financial management and comptrollership for AFSPC. Principal financial advisor to the
Commander, Vice Commander, and AFSPC Staff regarding all aspects of financial management
and services. Maintains liaison with the Air Staff, DFAS and other MAJCOMs that provide
financial resources to support the mission. Analyzes the financial status of AFSPC programs
during the Program Objective Memorandum (POM), Budget Estimate Submission (BES),
President’s Budget (PB), and Congressional review cycles. Acquires Future Years Defense
Program (FYDP) out year data and utilizes cost-related information to support and defend budget
estimates. Continually monitors financial data required to link budgets with execution and
programming.
6.2. Financial Analysis Division (FMA). As a division of the Comptroller Directorate,
Financial Analysis is responsible for evaluating requirements and offsets provided by the
directorates to accomplish the mission. Directs fiscal operations involving budget and execution
plan preparation, funds distribution and management covering operation and maintenance,
military construction, military family housing and investment appropriations, and recommends
alternative approaches to effective funds management and program execution. Leads and
controls the corporate process as identified in HOI 65-603 for execution year Operations and
Maintenance (O&M) funding issues. HQ AFSPC/FM focal point for civilian training.
6.2.1. Program Integration Branch (FMAI):
6.2.1.1. Administers budgeting and financial planning efforts in conjunction with HQ AFSPC
financial management committees –Group, Board and Council.
6.2.1.2. Provides policy and guidance for financial management and comptrollership for
AFSPC.
6.2.1.3. Maintains funds control process including receipt and issue of funding documents and
database management for all appropriations.
6.2.1.4. Handles integration, compilation, and preparation of Initial Distribution, Execution
Plan, Quarterly Reviews, Closeout and other financial exercises and reporting and submission
requirements.
6.2.1.5. Prepares briefings and presentations to HQ Staff, field and external customers.
6.2.1.6. FM liaison with SAF/FMB for all legislative actions and Presidential Budget Decisions
(PBDs) that affect AFSPC finances.
6.2.1.7. Manages Upward Obligation Adjustment progress. Acts as command approval
authority for requests requiring elevation and/or funding from HQ and/or Air Staff.
6.2.1.8. Oversees cancelled year bill process.
6.2.1.9. Program Element Manager (PEM) for Official Representation Funds (ORF). Advises
and manages distribution/tracking of ORF for the command; prepares quarterly reports on
expenditures of ORF.

6.2.2. Financial Operations Branch (FMAO):
6.2.2.1. Leads Operation and Maintenance budgeting and execution planning strategies in
conjunction with HQ AFSPC financial management committees – Group, Board and Council.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                          14


6.2.2.2. Consolidates and validates financial requirements for AFSPC mission and support
programs.
6.2.2.3. Oversees budget execution and distribution of funds to the headquarters and subordinate
units. Analyzes spend rates, evaluates program execution and validates funding requirements in
conjunction with PEMs.
6.2.2.4. Gathers financial requirements, consolidates and analyzes requirements, prepares
justification, and submits budgets to SAF/FMB.
6.2.2.5. PEM for Base Operations (BOS). Develops command requirements, consolidates Wing
inputs, prepares execution plan and distribution, and advocates for BOS shortfalls through the
Program Objective Memorandum (POM).
6.2.2.6. Performs wide range of budget duties in administering the budget supporting centrally
managed logistics commodities including Contract Logistics Support, Sustaining Engineering,
Depot Level Reparables, Depot Purchased Equipment Maintenance, Technical Orders, and
Flying Hours. Helps formulate, justify, execute and review all assigned logistics programs at
unit and Command level. Interfaces with headquarters, Depots, Consolidated Asset Management
Program, and Air Staff on requirements and validation.
6.2.2.6.1. Provides support to the Consolidated Asset Management Program for the Air Force
Cost Analysis Improvement Group (AFCAIG) to determine outyear cost per flying hour.
6.2.2.7. PEM for the Headquarters Management Account supporting HQ AFSPC. Leads
budgeting and financial planning efforts in conjunction with the Financial Working Group
`(FWG) and Financial Management Board (FMB).
6.2.2.7.1. Develops, validates and manages all financial requirements for AFSPC Headquarters
account.
6.2.2.7.2. Reviews and analyzes accounting data to help match available funds against
programmed requirements.
6.2.2.7.3. Maintains the RC/CC code structure required to administer the budget properly with
the accounting activity for the headquarters account.
6.2.2.7.4. Coordinates and takes appropriate action on the budgetary implications of audit report
estimated potential monetary benefits (PMB) data.
6.2.2.8. Conducts special studies pertaining to forecasts, projections, or estimates of
requirements with current or future budgetary implications.
6.2.2.9. Implements prescribed Air Force and MAJCOM financial management training
programs.
6.2.2.10. Receives, distributes and monitors all Base Realignment and Closure funding for the
command.
6.2.3. Acquisition Support Branch (FMAQ):
6.2.3.1. Performs a wide range of duties in administering the AFSPC investment budget .
Interfaces with Headquarters USAF, product centers, subordinate units and Air Force
Acquisition, Financial Management and Undersecretary for Space Acquisition offices on
financial requirements and issues.
6.2.3.2. Responsible for reviewing cost analyses submitted from subordinate units including
economic analyses, A-76 studies and analysis supporting selective sourcing and privatization
initiatives. Develops AFSPC unique cost estimates and prepares cost analyses to support/defend
program requirements. Provides the Cost Analysis Working Group (CAWG) chair for all
command developed Analysis of Alternatives (AoA) studies.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         15


6.2.3.3. Gathers, consolidates and analyzes requirements, prepares justification, and submits
results to SAF/FMB for Execution Review and Global War on Terror (GWOT) requirements
funded in the Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E) and procurement
appropriations.
6.2.3.4. Gathers, consolidates and analyzes requirements, prepares justification, and submits
results to SAF/FMB for execution reviews and ad-hoc requirements calls for RDT&E and
procurement appropriations.
6.2.3.5. Oversees budget execution and distribution of funds to subordinate units. Analyzes
spend rates, evaluates program execution and validates funding requirements in conjunction with
PEMs and Command Leads (CL).
6.2.3.6. Maintains accounting and budget records for the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) Program.
6.3. Financial Services Division (FMF). As a division of the Comptroller Directorate,
Financial Services is responsible for the oversight, policy and procedures of accounting and
finance operations for AFSPC bases.
6.3.1. Financial Systems Branch (FMFN):
6.3.1.1. Provides analysis and oversight of non-appropriated funds (NAF) financial activity and
analysis of financial data as a basis for management and operational decisions.
6.3.1.2. Evaluates the financial ramifications of, and makes recommendations on, proposed
MAJCOM NAF policies. Ensures related FM oversight procedures are in place concurrent with
implementation of new financial policies.
6.3.2. Customer Service Branch (FMFP):
6.3.2.1. Administers accounting and finance staff activities as prescribed by HQ USAF and
ensures field compliance with DoD policies and public laws.
6.3.2.2. Manages requirements for systems and procedures involving military, civilian and travel
pay as well as commitment accounting, GPC and travel accounting.
6.3.2.3. Functional manager for contingency training requirements.
6.3.2.4. Command functional manager for Automated Business Services System (ABSS),
Reserve Travel System (RTS), Automated Purchase Card System (APCS), Defense Civilian Pay
System (DCPS), Defense Travel System (DTS), Wide Area Work Flow (WAWF) and Defense
Enterprise Accounting and Management System (DEAMS).
6.3.2.5. Recommends changes to accounting and finance reporting objectives and data collection
programs to satisfy mission requirements.
6.3.2.6. Maintains liaison with Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) to ensure
proper disbursement and collection of funds.
6.3.2.7. Provides financial assistance as required to HQ AFSPC staff, AFSPC NAFs, Centers
and Wing comptrollers.
6.3.2.8. Maintains liaison with Air Force Financial Services Center (AFFSC) to ensure proper
processing of travel and pay documents.
6.3.3. Plans and Training Branch (FMFX):
6.3.3.1. Supports command automation efforts through revisions to existing systems or
applications for AF systems.
6.3.3.2. Responsible for Government Travel Card program.
6.3.3.3. Headquarters focal point for audit liaison with Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA),
General Accounting Office (GAO), and DoD Inspector General.
6.3.3.4. HQ AFSPC/FM focal point for Quality Assurance (QA) program; reviews self
inspection checklists and advises Quality Assurance Managers (QAM) on high interest items.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                        16


6.3.3.5. Coordinates and oversees AFSPC banking and credit union activities.
6.3.3.6. Administrates the AFSPC Management Internal Control Program (MICP). Provides
guidance to field units and consolidates findings. Prepares Annual Statement of Assurance for
the command.
6.3.3.7. Responsible for oversight of preliminary Anti-deficiency Act reviews within AFSPC.
6.3.4. Financial Management Functional Manager (FMM):
6.3.4.1. Manages personnel programs such as manning, assignments and promotions for over
150 enlisted troops at 15 locations worldwide.
6.3.4.2. Works manpower issues for over 800 officer, enlisted and civilian positions throughout
the command. Works closely with HQ AFSPC/A1 in response to Air Force driven manpower
drills.
6.3.4.3. Responsible for providing training and career guidance to all financial management
enlisted members throughout the command.
6.3.4.4. Coordinates with Air Staff counterpart and Air Force Personnel Center assignment
manager on personnel, policy and trends within comptroller organizations.
6.3.4.5. Monitors assignment actions and takes appropriate action on validation; joint spouse;
and Equal Plus.
6.3.4.6. Reviews all awards, decorations and performance reports for enlisted staff assigned to
Directorate.
6.3.4.7. Manages the command Financial Management and Comptroller awards program.
6.3.4.9. Focal point for Financial Management Professional Development Program.
6.3.4.10. Manages and schedules manning for Inspector General inspections and Staff
Assistance visits for Financial Management.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                          17


                                           Chapter 7
                      OFFICE OF STAFF JUDGE ADVOCATE (JA)

7.1. Staff Judge Advocate (JA). Advises AFSPC/CC, CV, and staff directors on all legal
aspects of operations for Air Force Space Command and its subordinate units. Manages a 15-
person staff which includes providing daily supervision and coordination of activities for eight
divisions responsible for military justice, administrative, civil, ethics, acquisition, fiscal,
environmental, operations, space and international law, throughout the command. Provides
oversight and serves as SAF/HAF liaison to 10 U.S.-based subordinate NAF and wing-level AF
legal offices, which comprise 200 officers, enlisted members and civilian employees, serving
37,000 personnel in the U.S. and seven countries. Oversees management of judge advocate
manpower, reserve, and AEF support for the command.
7.2. Administrative Law (JAA). Advises on all legal aspects of the administration and
effective use of resources within the command. Advice includes areas of broad general legal
application that otherwise lack a specific military or operational mission element warranting
specialized military legal expertise. Assists with the management and oversight of Civil law
(JAC) and Commercial and Fiscal law (JAQ). Provides back up action officer support to JAC,
JAQ and AFLOA/JACE, as needed. Primary legal advisor responsible for planning and
oversight of the command ethics program under the Joint Ethics Regulation (JER). Reviews
financial disclosure statements for general officers/SES/acquisition personnel. Advisor for all
official representation fund (ORF)/NAF expenditures. Legal advisor to Guardian Challenge.
7.3. Civil Law (JAC). Primary legal advisor on all issues related to administrative discharges in
the command, especially officer and senior noncommissioned officer cases. Primary advisor on
officer grade determinations, promotion actions, reenlistment appeals, referral OPR/EPRs, Drop
from the Rolls Actions, and Conscientious Objector cases. Command focal point for information
release practices, including all issues related to the Privacy Act, Office of Special Counsel
investigations, and the Freedom of Information Act. Primary legal advisor for line of duty
determinations, reports of survey, complaints of wrongs under Article 138, fundraising and
private organization issues. Provides training on the Freedom of Information Act throughout the
command. Provides legal reviews of Inspector General investigations and is the functional area
augmentee for inspections. Provides legal reviews on all Commander Directed Investigations at
the command level. Focal point for all congressional inquiries. Advises on all labor law, equal
opportunity, and labor-management relations matters. Legal representative to the AFSPC
Integrated Delivery System team. Advises on all aircraft and missile accident investigations,
claims for or against the government, legal assistance and preventive law programs, and political
activities by members of the Air Force. Provides legal support concerning safety issues,
religious issues, medical legal issues, and military support for civilian authorities.
7.4. Environmental Law (AFLOA/JACE). Advises on all environmental law and litigation
issues affecting AFSPC missions, facilities, space operations, and the worldwide network of
space operation sites and sensors. Represents AFSPC in environmental negotiations and
disputes with EPA, Department of Interior, and state and local governments. Provides legal
support for environmental issues related to the commercial space launch program and real
property transactions. Provides training and oversight for environmental law programs at all
AFSPC bases and sites.
7.5. Executive Services (JAE). Serves as support personnel for the command staff judge
advocate. Provides executive services to the SJA and deputy ensuring that all internal and
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                          18


external JA taskings are completed in a timely manner. Acts as the administrative interface with
other command agencies. Manages the daily operations of the command legal office to include
manpower and resource management. Programs and ensures proper execution of the office
budget. Ensures other office administrative training and personnel matters are accomplished in
accordance with Air Force and Command policies.
7.6. Space and International Law (JAI). Advises and instructs on space, international, and
operational law issues affecting the commands’ missions, space operations, and worldwide
network of space sites and sensors. Represents the command in international negotiations and
interprets international agreements. Supervises foreign criminal jurisdiction and claims
programs for all DoD activities in Canada and advises on all issues concerning status of forces
agreements. Advises on exercise and real-world operations plans involving targeting, the law of
armed conflict and wartime use of space assets.
7.7. Military Justice (JAJ). Advises AFSPC/CC, CV and staff directors on all legal aspects of
military justice for Air Force Space Command and its subordinate units. Monitors misconduct
cases, military justice programs, and military justice trends throughout the command. Develops
and communicates initiatives to improve the administration of military justice to subordinate
installation legal offices.
7.8. Operational Law (JAO). Advises on operational and intelligence law matters affecting the
command. Advises on exercise and real world operations involving international law and the
law of war. JA coordinator for the AFSPC crisis action team. Functional area manager for JA,
assuring deployment readiness of AFSPC judge advocates and paralegals and coordinates with
the AEF Center on AEF taskings of JA personnel assigned within AFSPC. Reviews command
operations plans and programs for legal sufficiency.
7.9. Commercial and Fiscal Law (JAQ). Advises on commercial, fiscal, acquisition and
contract law matters in support of the AFSPC mission, to include source selections, contract
administration, the contract fraud program, Anti-deficiency Act investigations, housing and
utilities privatization matters, the commercial activities (A-76) program, and fiscal law issues.
Primary liaison with counsel for industry organizations and defense contractors. Represents the
command in bid protests and contract claims and litigation. Manages procurement law training
for AFSPC, including ethics and conflicts of interest issues related to acquisition activities.
Serves as AFSPC Procurement Fraud Counsel. Provides legal advice and counsel regarding
DoD support for the commercial space programs including launch and space surveillance data
and analysis.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                          19


                                           Chapter 8
                            OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS (PA)

8.1. Office of Public Affairs (PA). Plans, develops, directs, and implements command
communications strategies and activities to enhance internal and external public support for
Command missions and requirements. Provides advice and counsel to AFSPC CC/CV, AFSPC
Directorate senior leadership, commanders and PA specialists at two Numbered Air Forces, (14
AF and 20 AF), Space Innovation and Development Center, the Space and Missile Systems
Center and eight wings. Produces strategic and tactical communication plans to support mission
specific requirements.
8.2. Outreach Division (PAC):
8.2.1. Plans and executes attendance by Commander, Vice Commander and other AFSPC senior
leaders in community relations events to build public trust and confidence.
8.2.2. Advises HQ AFSPC senior leadership and field commanders on community relations and
environmental issues.
8.2.3. Reviews and coordinates command photographer requirements for AFSPC Commander,
Vice Commander, Command Chief Master Sergeant and Director of Staff prior to significant
events and functions.
8.3. Current Operations Division (PAO):
8.3.1 Orchestrates and directs media relations, internal information, communication plans,
security and policy review, video and broadcast operations.
8.3.2 Integrates senior-leader activities with key messages to expand public and internal
awareness and support for AFSPC.
8.3.3 Provides accurate guidance to AFSPC leadership and the field on current and planned
operations affecting the command and its units.
8.3.4. Authors, reviews and coordinates communication plans and talking points. Anticipates,
plans and executes command communication strategies.
8.3.5. Responds to media queries.
8.3.6. Arranges and conducts media visits and interviews.
8.3.7. Produces broadcast stories.
8.3.8. Develops and publishes quarterly AFSPC space professional journal.
8.3.9. Maintains command public website and HQ AFSPC/PA internal AF Portal page by
posting stories, speeches, interview transcripts and other products.
8.4. Requirements and Development Division (PAR):
8.4.1. Manages directorate resources to include manpower requirements, training, annual office
budget/expenditures, research and evaluation, innovation and information technology.
8.4.2. Advises Director and Deputy Director on resource matters.
8.4.3. Serves as directorate resource advisor, submitting, budgetary matters and tracking
expenses. Serves as central directorate focal point to Finance Directorate for civilian-pay and
resource-advisor matters.
8.4.4. Serves as senior advisor and focal point for multimedia matters: graphics, video and still
imagery.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                   20


8.4.5. Coordinates and manages multimedia support to HQ AFSPC senior leadership by
overseeing the design, product completion and customer service for multimedia products and
ensuring those products capture the command’s vision and strategic priorities.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                       21


                                         Chapter 9
                            DIRECTORATE OF SAFETY (SE)

9.1. Office of Command Safety (SE). Is the MAJCOM office of primary responsibility (OPR)
for the preservation of command resources and chief advisor for all safety issues. Implements
sound and executable safety policy and guidance to prevent mishaps. Increases risk awareness
within Air Force Space Command. Champions safety considerations in equipment and systems
throughout their lifecycle.
9.1.1. Lead MAJCOM divisions include Aviation Safety (SEF), Ground Safety (SEG), Weapons
Safety (SEW), Space Safety (SEC) and Systems Safety (SES) responsible for the management
and oversight of safety policies and programs for Air Force Space Command. Advises the
commander, MAJCOM staff, NAFs, Centers, wings and squadrons on safety-related issues.
9.1.2. Prevents reoccurrence of mishaps through the Mishap Review Panel (MRP) process and
utilization of Air Force Safety Automated System (AFSAS) mishap database.
9.1.3. Leads, maintains and/or supports participation in the following:
9.1.3.1. DoD/AF level. Defense Safety Oversight Council (DSOC), AF Safety Oversight
Council, Senior Safety Advisory Council (SSAC), Warhead Project Officer Meetings, Nuclear
Stakeholders Partnership Meetings, AF Nuclear General Officer Steering Groups, AF/FAA
Common Standards Working Group Senior Steering Group.
9.1.3.2. AFSPC level: Corporate Group, Board, Council meetings, Nuclear Surety Councils,
ICBM Long Range Planning Meetings, Environmental Safety and Occupational Health Councils,
Mishap Review Panels and space and missile system Test Readiness Review Boards.
9.1.4. Coordinates proper implementation of AFSPC’s mishap investigations.
9.1.5. Conducts subordinate unit safety Program Evaluations and Staff Assistance Visits.
Augments the IG for Compliance Inspections.
9.1.6. Leads and implements AFSPC’s Operational Risk Management (ORM) program.
9.1.7. Leads and implements AFSPC’s Safety Award program.
9.2. Ground Safety Division (SEG):
9.2.1. Is the MAJCOM OPR and advisor for ground safety issues. Serves as principal advisor to
the AFSPC Commander, HQs staff, NAFs, Centers and wings for occupational, industrial, and
recreational safety matters. Oversees, manages, plans, develops, organizes, administers,
evaluates, and coordinates comprehensive Federal, DoD, and Air Force Occupational Safety and
Health ground safety programs for AFSPC.
9.2.2. Provides and advises safety policy and guidance. Develops written policy: AFI 91-series
AFSPC supplements. Drafts AFSPC/CC and CV messages and policy memorandums on safety
related topics (Holidays, 101 Critical Days of Summer campaign, confidence course, etc).
Provides safety technical advice and consultation services to other the DoD safety committees,
Air Force Safety Center, HQs directorates. Disseminates safety mishap prevention information
to subordinate units to reduce the potential for recurrence and preserve command resources;
optimizing combat capability.
9.2.3. Responsible for directing safety procedures in Technical Orders, Mil Specs, Mil
Standards, equipment/product safety, and automated hazard abatement toward risk analysis,
control, and management. Recommends approval/disapproval of ground safety variance/waivers
and exemptions to established safety requirements and criteria. Develops guidelines and
regulations for complex, high-risk, diverse operations where no established guidance exist.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                           22


9.2.4. As requested by higher HQs; provides representation on American National Standards
Institute (ANSI), National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), DoD, Air Force and other
national consensus standard committees. Serves as AFSPC representative for the Air Force
Civilian Career Program Policy Council, USAF Ground Corporate Committee, and other HQ
USAF task groups to study and plan ground safety program changes that affect the entire Air
Force.
9.2.5. Provides AFSPC/CV and HQs directorates the state-of-command mishap prevention
program during semi-annual Environmental Safety and Occupational Health Council (ESOHC).
Supports Environmental Safety and Occupational Health (ESOH) systems of an organization
involved in the handling, storage, and/or disposal of toxic chemicals, hazardous materials, and/or
hazardous wastes.
9.2.6. Facilitates safety investigation board and mishap review programs. Provides Safety
Investigation Board (SIB) membership recommendations to MAJCOM senior leadership
following Class A and B ground safety mishaps occurring to MAJCOM organizational
resources. Coordinates fatality and mishap investigation board briefings for the commander.
Provides recommendations to the commander for endorsement, concurrence or non-concurrence
for each report finding and recommendation for On-Duty Class A mishaps. At times, conducts
Class A or B mishap investigations occurring to AFSPC assets as appointed by AFSPC senior
leadership. Supervises the reporting and endorsement of ground mishap reports (Class A, B, and
C). Validates Memorandum of Final Endorsement (MOFE) of each Class A aircraft, missile,
nuclear, space, ground, and explosive mishap report. Ensures corrective action on all open
recommendations for which the command is the action agency are made and monitor the
progress of the actions directed by the MOFE.                Reports the status of the MOFE
recommendations to HQ AFSC. Briefs Mishap Review Panel (SEG portion).
9.2.7. Provides MAJCOM inspection teams with appropriate instructions and guidance;
develops inspection criteria within AFSPC Checklists 91-4. Evaluates the effectiveness of said
programs via Safety Program Evaluations, ESOHCAMPS and HQs SAVs conducted by SE staff,
and inspections conducted by the IG staff. Tracks inspection findings to closure.
9.2.8. Provides oversight for ground mishap, incident and deficiency identification and reporting
per AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, and AFMAN 91-221, Weapons Safety
Investigations and Reports. Utilizes Air Force Safety Automated System (AFSAS) to receive
mishap reports and track status of mishap investigations. Reviews and conducts quality control
of Air Force safety automated mishap system reporting of subordinate units. Develops mishap
analysis programs to evaluate mishap statistics and identify trends including successes or
problem areas. Ensures safety program effectiveness is measured. Develops and guides
prevention actions.
9.2.9. Responsible for developing overall training objectives for ground safety personnel
throughout the command. Screens subordinate units' training needs and prioritizes training
requirements.
9.2.10. Provides functional manager duties. Advises commanders on safety wartime capabilities
and readiness. Directs organizational and AEF manpower allocations for AFSPC-wide safety
manpower.
9.2.11. Assists in executing AFSPC’s Safety Awards program.
9.2.12. Authorities. Occupational Safety and Health Act (P.L. 91-596) and Product Safety Act
(Pol. 92-573), Executive Order 12196,29 Code of Federal Regulations 1960, and DoD
Instructions 6055.1, 6055.4 and 6055.7, AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         23


Program; AFI 91-204;Safety Investigations and Reports, AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational
and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health (OSHA) Standards, AFMAN 91-224,
Ground Safety Investigations and Reports ; AFPD 90-8, AFI 90-801, Environmental, Safety and
Occupational Health Councils, and AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program.
9.2.13. Responsibilities. Supports SECDEF mishap reduction goals, HHQs safety policies and
programs. Provides AFSPC-level ground safety related policy, guidance and functional manager
duties. Advises and assists subordinate units with the implementation of effective Ground Safety
programs. Evaluates the effectiveness of said programs via Safety Program Evaluations
conducted by our staff and the IG during HQs SAVs, IG inspections and ESOHCAMPS.
9.2.14. Products. AFSPCCL 91-4, Safety Program (Ground Safety), AFSPC HOI 91-3, AFSPC
Supplements to AFIs 91-202, 91-204 and AFSPC CC/CV messages and memorandums.
Analyzes and distributes prevention data from mishap reports, all safety communication
(ALSAFECOM) messages, and analysis programs to subordinate units. Develops cross-tell
publications and information.
9.3. Weapon Safety Division (SEW):
9.3.1. Is the MAJCOM OPR and advisor for weapons safety and nuclear surety issues.
9.3.2. Provides oversight for command weapons safety programs to include nuclear surety,
explosives safety, site planning, missile safety, unexploded ordnance (UXOs), and nuclear
certification.
9.3.3. Organizes and briefs command’s Nuclear Surety Council and briefs SEW portion of the
Mishap Review Panel.
9.3.4. MAJCOM Voting Member for the following weapons safety-related forums: USAF
Nuclear Weapon System Safety Groups (NWSSGs), ICBM Warhead Project Officer Meetings
(POMs/formerly POGs) and associated subgroups, Nuclear Surety Working Group (NSWG),
ICBM Systems Safety Group (SSG), USAF Explosives Safety Council (ESC).
9.3.5. Supports and attends ICBM and weapons safety-related meetings to include: ICBM Long
Range Planning meeting, Sustainment Conference, Nuclear Security IPT, 526 ICBMSG Material
Safety Task Group, Space Security IPT, Nuclear Stakeholders Partnership Meeting, ICBM
Response Task Force Working Group, AFSPC Exercise Planning meetings, Force Applications
and Mission Support Mission Area Teams Planning meetings, Test Readiness Review Boards,
and IG out-briefs.
9.3.6. Provides MAJCOM inspection teams with appropriate instructions and guidance;
develops inspection criteria within AFSPC Checklists 91-1 and 91-2. Evaluates the effectiveness
of said programs via Safety Program Evaluations, HQs SAVs conducted by SE staff, and
inspections conducted by the IG staff. Tracks inspection findings to closure.
9.3.7. Reviews and approves explosive site plan submissions and prioritizes applicable
submissions as “expedited;” provides feedback and correction requirements to unit Weapon
Safety Managers.
9.3.8. Reviews and approves test plans for tests on operational missile systems.
9.3.9. Command focal point for AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program, and AFI 91-103,
Air Force Nuclear Safety Design Certification Program, governed Nuclear Certification program
by managing operational certification requirements and administering training to staff whose
duties involve nuclear weapons and weapon system programs.
9.3.10. Provides oversight for weapons mishap, incident and deficiency identification and
reporting per AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, and AFMAN 91-221, Weapons
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                      24


Safety Investigations and Reports. Utilizes Air Force Safety Automated System (AFSAS) to
receive mishap reports and track status of mishap investigations.
9.3.11. Command manager for Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) Nuclear Surety
Inspection (DNSI) deficiency tracking and corrective actions; accesses HQ AFSPC/IG Findings
Automated Tracking System (FATS) to receive status updates and coordinate on safety-related
findings.
9.3.12. Assists in executing AFSPC’s Safety Awards program.
9.3.13. Authorities. DoDD 3150.2, DoD Nuclear Weapon System Safety Program, DoDI
6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health Program, DoDI 6055.4, DoD Traffic Safety
Program, DoDI 6055.7, Accident Investigation, Reporting, and Record Keeping, DoD 6055.9-Std,
DoD Ammunition and Explosives Safety Standards, AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems
Surety, AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, AFI 91-101, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program,
AFI 91-102, Nuclear Weapon System Safety Reviews, and Safety Rules, AFI 91-103,AFI 91-104,
Nuclear Surety Tamper Control and Detection Programs, AFI 91-106, Unauthorized Launch
and Launch Action Studies, AFI 91-107, Design, Evaluation, Troubleshooting and Maintenance
Criteria for Nuclear Weapons Systems, AFI 91-108, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Intrinsic
Radiation Safety Program, AFI 91-114, Safety Rules for the Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
Systems, AFI 91-116, Safety Rules for Long-Term Storage and Maintenance Operations for
Nuclear Weapons, AFI 91-117, Safety Rules For The Airborne Launch Control System, AFMAN
91-118, Safety Design And Evaluation Criteria For Nuclear Weapon Systems, AFI 91-202,
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, AFI 91-204, AFMAN 91-221, Weapons Safety
Investigations and Reports, AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program.
9.3.14. Responsibilities. Supports SECDEF mishap reduction goals, HHQs safety policies and
programs. Provides AFSPC-level weapons safety related policy, guidance and functional
manager duties. Advises and assist subordinate units with the implementation of effective
Weapons Safety programs. Oversees nuclear surety programs, coordinates their development,
and provides nuclear surety courseware guidance.
9.3.15. Products. AFSPCCLs 91-1, Safety Programs – Operational Readiness Inspection
(ORI) and Nuclear Surety Inspection (NSI) (UNIT), 91-2, Safety Programs (Weapons Safety),
AFSPC HOI 91-3, AFSPC Supplements to AFIs and AFMANs 91-101, 91-103, 91-104, 91-108,
91-118, 91-221; coordinates/helps develop AFSPCI 91-1005. Develops cross-tell publications
and information.
9.4. Space Safety Division (SEC):
9.4.1. Is the MAJCOM OPR and advisor for space safety issues.
9.4.2. Leads and maintains membership in Air Force Space Safety Council. Provides support to
the AF/FAA Common Standards Working Group Senior Steering Group.
9.4.3. Provides MAJCOM inspection teams with appropriate instructions and guidance;
develops inspection criteria within AFSPC Checklist 91-5, Safety Program (Space/Systems
Safety). Evaluates the effectiveness of said programs via Safety Program Evaluations, HQs
SAVs conducted by SE staff, and inspections conducted by the IG staff. Tracks inspection
findings to closure.
9.4.4. Provides and advises Launch Safety policy and guidance. Co-Chairs the Common
Standard Working Group with FAA/AST. Maintains Associate membership to Range
Commander's Council's Range Safety Group. Maintains participation with and provides support
to Range User Coordination Boards and associated Commercial Space Industry Leader meetings.
Briefs SEC portion of Mishap Review Panel.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         25


9.4.5. Provides and advises Orbital Safety policy and guidance. Maintains membership in the
NASA/DoD Orbital Debris Working Group. Provides US support of UNCOPUOS guidelines.
Leads and maintains membership in Orbital Safety Officer's Working Group with the 50th and
460th SW's and the Air Force Space Safety Council.
9.4.6. Provides and advises operational Ground-Based Space System Safety policy and
guidance. Maintains participation in the Space Surveillance Working Group and Counterspace
Activity Reviews.
9.4.7. Provides and advises system test safety policy and guidance. Chairs Safety Review
Boards or co-chairs Combined Review Boards with 595 SG/CC. Reviews and approves test
plans for tests on operational space systems. Maintains membership in existing System Safety
Working Groups.
9.4.8. Provides oversight for space mishap, incident and deficiency identification and reporting
per AFI 91-204 and AFMAN 91-221. Utilizes Air Force Safety Automated System (AFSAS) to
receive mishap reports and track status of mishap investigations.
9.4.9. Authorities. DoDD 3100.10, Space Policy, and 3200.11, Major Range and Test Facility
Base-Summary of Capabilities, AFI 91-202, AFI 91-204, AFMAN 91-222, AFI 91-217, AFSPC
91-700 series instructions and manuals, AF/FAA Relief MOU, AF/FAA/NTSB MOU and
Launch Mishap Investigation Guide SE-001, AF/NASA MOU and AFSPC/CC policy memo
directives.
9.4.10. Responsibilities. Provides AFSPC-level space safety related policy and guidance.
Advises subordinate units to implement effective Space Safety programs preventing space
mishaps in launch, orbital, space control, and ground-based space systems.
9.4.11. Products. AFSPC 91-700 series instructions and manuals and space safety related
supplements to applicable 91 series AF instructions and manuals, and the Space Safety aspects of
AFSPCCL 91-5. Develops cross-tell publications and information.
9.5. Aviation Safety Division (SEF).
9.5.1. Is the MAJCOM OPR and advisor for flight safety issues.
9.5.2. Manages aviation safety program to include the Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard, Mid Air
Collision Avoidance, and Hazardous Air Traffic Report. Develops mishap analysis programs to
evaluate aviation mishap statistics and identify trends including successes or problem areas.
Ensures aviation safety program effectiveness is measured. Organizes command’s Mishap
Review Panel and briefs SEF portion.
9.5.3. Provides MAJCOM inspection teams with appropriate instructions and guidance;
develops inspection criteria within AFSPC Checklists 91-6, Safety Program (Aviation Safety).
Evaluates the effectiveness of said programs via Safety Program Evaluations, HQs SAVs
conducted by SE staff, and inspections conducted by the IG staff. Tracks inspection findings to
closure.
9.5.4. Leads command safety training program and projects requirements. Prioritizes and
schedules necessary safety training for AFSPC personnel.
9.5.5. Serves as liaison between National Transportation Safety Board, Headquarters Air Force
Safety Center (HQ AFSC), NAF and wing safety offices.
9.5.6. Coordinates aviation mishap investigation boards and briefings for the commander.
Provides recommendations to the commander for endorsement, concurrence or non-concurrence
(including non-concurrence rationale) for each report finding and recommendation for aviation
Class A mishaps. Validates Memorandum of Final Endorsement (MOFE) of each Class A
aviation mishap report. Ensures corrective action on all open recommendations for which the
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         26


command is the action agency are made and monitor the progress of the actions directed by the
MOFE. Reports the status of the MOFE recommendations to HQ AFSC.
9.5.7. Authorities. AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Assessment, AFI 91-202, AFI 91-204,
AFMAN 91-223, Aviation Safety Investigations and Reports, and UFC 3-260-1.
9.5.8. Responsibilities. Provides AFSPC-level aviation safety related policy and guidance.
Advise subordinate units to implement effective Aviation Safety programs preventing flight,
flight related and aircraft ground operations mishaps.
9.5.9. Products. AFSPCCL 90-203, H-1 Helicopter Risk Management, AFSPCCL 90-6,
Operational Risk Management Programs, AFSPCCL 91-6 and aviation safety related
supplements to applicable 91 series AF instructions and manuals. Develops cross-tell
publications and information.
9.6. System Safety Division (SES):
9.6.1. Is the MAJCOM OPR and advisor for system safety issues. Integrates system safety into
acquisition program systems engineering.
9.6.2. Ensures system safety considerations in equipment and systems throughout their lifecycle
to include the development of a solicitation, contract award, and management of the acquired
system(s), from initial concept through the end of the program life, including disposal.
Maintains membership in Air Force Space Safety Council and existing System Safety Working
Groups.
9.6.3. Creates and maintains criteria for Space Flight Worthiness of AFSPC systems. Advises
and reviews system safety studies to identify and mitigate or minimize negative impacts to
personnel, the system and the environment in accordance with regulatory requirements, cost,
schedule, design and operational constraints.
9.6.4. Requires planning, implementation, and accomplishment of system safety tasks and
activities consistent with the overall system program requirements via System Safety
Management Plans (SSMP). Ensures system safety engineers apply the following hazard control
measures: design for minimum risk in design selection; incorporate protective safety design
features or devices; provide warning devices to detect unsafe conditions; and develop procedures
and training to mitigate risk.
9.6.5. Ensure system program offices conduct formal hazard analysis throughout system
lifecycle to include: concept studies, concept development, preliminary design, complete design,
build, operate and sustain.
9.6.6. Reviews and approves system tests.
9.6.7. Provides MAJCOM inspection teams with appropriate instructions and guidance;
develops inspection criteria within AFSPC Checklist 91-5. Evaluates the effectiveness of said
programs via Safety Program Evaluations, HQs SAVs conducted by SE staff, and inspections
conducted by the IG staff. Tracks inspection findings to closure.
9.6.8. Provides oversight for space mishap, incident and deficiency identification and reporting
per AFI 91-204 and AFMAN 91-221. Utilizes Air Force Safety Automated System (AFSAS) to
receive mishap reports and track status of mishap investigations.
9.6.9. Authorities. AFI 63-1201, Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E)
and other AFI 63-series instructions, NSS 03-01 National Security Space Acquisition Policy,
Military Standard 882C, DODI 5000.2, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System ,DoDD
3100.10 and 3200.11, AFI 91-202, AFI 91-204, AFMAN 91-222, Space Safety Investigations
and Reports, AFSPCMAN 91-710, and AFSPCMAN 91-711
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                     27


9.6.10. Responsibilities. Provides AFSPC-level systems safety related policy and guidance.
Advises subordinate units in the implementation of effective Systems Safety programs
preventing space mishaps for AFSPC developed, operated and acquired systems throughout their
lifecycle.
9.6.11. Products. SMCI 63-1205, Space System Safety Policy, Process, and Techniques, inputs
to AFSPC and SMC 63 and 91-series instructions, manuals and supplements, and Systems Safety
portion of AFSPCCL 91-5. Develops cross-tell publications and information.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         28


                                          Chapter 10
                         OFFICE OF COMMAND SURGEON (SG)

10.1. Command Surgeon (SG). Responsible for the management and oversight of all medical
service aspects of AFSPC. Disseminates, develops and implements clinical, aerospace medicine
and administrative policy and guidance. Oversees management resources to ensure optimal
medical support and maximum wartime readiness and combat capability by developing and
operating a comprehensive community based health care system that promotes the health and
morale by providing timely, quality medical service for all active duty members, their families,
and other beneficiaries.
10.1.1. Disseminates, develops and implements clinical and aerospace medicine policy and
guidance.
10.1.2. Provides guidance on Physical Standards management.
10.1.3. Monitors medical waivers for Flying and Special Operational Duty Personnel.
10.1.4.     Provides guidance on Health Promotion/Wellness/Suicide Prevention/Tobacco
Reduction/Air Force Fitness programs.
10.1.5. Monitors OSHA/EPA/Occupational Health, Hazardous Material and Waste Management
Programs.
10.1.6. Provides guidance on Public Health issues.
10.1.7. Manages Bioenvironmental Engineering programs.
10.1.8. Consolidates planning and develops requirements for Medical Plans and Readiness.
10.1.9. Provides oversight and direction for Medical Intelligence.
10.1.10. Participates in development of career policy and guidance for officer and enlisted
members.
10.1.11. Identifies and monitors requirements for Medical Training and Education.
10.2. Medical Support Division (SGS). Assists with administrative oversight of health care
delivery. Assists with planning and development of all medical administrative policy, plans,
programs, guidance, and oversight of medical administration programs in the command.
Advisor on execution of command Medical Budget. Maintains liaison with federal, state and
local health care administration regulatory bodies. Ensures compliance with established
requirements. Also, as Command Administrator, participates in development of policy and
guidance for Medical Service Corps activities.
10.3. Aerospace Medicine Division (SGP). Provides oversight and policy guidance for clinical
and flight/missile medicine (to include PRP and waivers), public health, immunizations, family
advocacy, mental health, bioenvironmental engineering, health promotion, access to care, and
customer service, suicide prevention, and substance abuse reduction programs. Provides
oversight for all medical professional activities. Monitors Occupational Health, Environmental
Health, Radiological Surveillance and full Spectrum Threat Response activities. Manages
medical, chemical, biological, Radiological, nuclear and high yield explosives (MC-CBRN)
program activities. Monitors and assesses medical intelligence.
10.4. Expeditionary Operations (SGX). Provides oversight, strategic direction, policy and
operational support for AFSPC expeditionary medical capabilities used in global, homeland
security and force health protection initiatives. Provides HQ AFSPC/SG oversight, leads and
articulates AF Expeditionary Medical Operations, strategic plans, policies, and guidance.
Responsible to AF/SG for development, alignment, and approval of the HQ AFSPC/SG Medical
Resource Letter.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                      29


                                          Chapter 11
        DIRECTORATE OF MANPOWER, PERSONNEL AND SERVICES (A1)

11.1. Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and Services (A1). Program and advocate
manpower, resources and organizational development. Manage competitive sourcing and
privatization. Advises the Commander regarding all aspects of military and civilian
personnel management. Maintains liaison with the Air Staff, AFPC, and other MAJCOMs
and Field Operating Agencies (FOA) that provide personnel resources to support the mission.
To provide MAJCOM staff level direction, policy, guidance, and oversight for Air Force
Space Command Services (HQ AFSPC/SV) programs for all installations and geographically
separated units (GSU) in support of space launch, space surveillance, early warning satellite
operations in peacetime and wartime, and to enhance troop readiness, fitness, and quality of
life for Air Force members and their families.
11.2. Personnel Support Division (A1K).
11.2.1. Enlisted Development Branch (A1KA). Conducts analysis of On-the-Job Training and
other training programs, manages enlisted PME program, manages enlisted assignments program
to include Command Mgt Plan, Force Analysis, Functional Manager, command leveling, and
inbound assignment. Manages Command-Unique Development and manages MRT quota.
11.2.2. Education Operations Branch (A1KE). Serves as voluntary education advisor and
analyzes various education programs. Serves as library advisor.
11.2.3. Personnel Programs Branch (A1KK). Performs Pay Pool and Compensation
Management, manages CEP and workyear execution, resolves MAJCOM uniform issues,
manages special trophies and awards program, manages personnel programs, oversees NSPS
implementation program, responsible for labor and employee relations programs, oversees
civilian force structure changes, executes staffing program.
11.2.4. Officer and Civilian Development Branch (A1KO). Manages military Professional
Military Education (PME) and civilian Career Development and Education (CDE) and training
programs. Manages Assignments Program to include Sq Cmdr Course selection, perform Force
Analysis, manages Functional Managers program, manages STARNOMS program; manages
rated Sq Cmdr Selection board and requisition process. Manages Command –unique
development program.
11.2.5. Promotions Branch (A1KP). Responsible for MLRs, PRF appeals, promotion releases,
posthumous promotions and STEP.
11.3. Senior Leader Development Office (A1L). Manages General officer and Senior
Executive Service evaluation, training and board member selection; executes colonel position
management program; manages colonel positions; manages GS-15/NSPS equivalent leadership
development program; and executes CMSGT management program.
11.4. Manpower and Organization Division (A1M).
11.4.1. Requirements Branch (A1MR). Determines mission and support requirements,
accomplishes capability-based manpower system, oversees and executes competitive sourcing
program and manages classification program.
11.4.2. Programs Branch (A1MP). Manages organizational changes, publishes organizational
special orders, executes programming and manpower resource FYDP management, determines
and oversees manpower ceilings/floors, manages force structure, manages PAS codes, manages
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                    30


PECI and IDEA programs, manages BEST Practices program, oversees MAJCOM’s AF Climate
Survey input.
11.5. Services Division (A1S).
11.5.1. Airmen and Family Services Branch (A1SA). Manages SARP program, manages
Airman and Family Readiness programs including: advisory services, casualty/mortuary
services, ID AFRF trends, validate staffing and facilities and serving as lead for MAJCOM
CAIB. Oversees child development and youth programs, and family child care.
11.5.2. Community Services Branch (A1SC). manages business operations, serves as
recreation programs liaison.
11.5.3. Marketing Branch (A1SK). Conducts commercial sponsorship and marketing.
11.5.4. Resources and Requirements Branch (A1SR). Oversees NAF facilities, manages
services training program, manages NAF IT systems, serves as NAF HR advisor, performs NAF
program analysis, performs A1 Resource oversight via A1 POM and comptroller/dollar resource
execution (APF/NAF).
11.5.5. Sustainment Services Branch (A1SS). Oversees food operations program, acts as
fitness, lodging and protocol liaisons, oversees Honor Guard program.
11.6. Readiness and Integration Division (A1R).
11.6.1. Issues and Analysis Branch (A1RI). Performs analytical support, oversees cross-
cutting issues, performance analysis reporting, and manages Case Management System.
11.6.2. Readiness Branch (A1RR). Performs UTC posturing and management, manages
readiness reporting and monitoring (ARTS/SORTS), performs manday management, builds
readiness plans, conducts force posturing activities including ongoing analysis, schedule
supplemental and readiness training. Performs sourcing verification and accountability.
Manages DCAPES/DMD systems. Performs PRU/PRF oversight.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                            31


                                           Chapter 12
 DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE, AND RECONNAISSANCE
                           (ISR) (A2)

12.1. Directorate of Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) (A2). Serves as
for the command. Responsible for developing ISR policy and guidance. Oversees the
command’s foundational space ISR requirements development and enables the command’s
ability to conduct space ISR operations. Develops, validates, and advocates for the command’s
foundational space ISR needs. Interfaces with and leverages Air Force and national-level
intelligence organizations in meeting command ISR requirements. Oversees all intelligence-
related functions performed by the Management Headquarters (MHQ). The directorate is
divided into six divisions: Analysis and Applications (A2A), ISR Operations (A2O), ISR Forces
(A2F), Special Security Office (SSO) (A2S), ISR Strategy and Plans (A2X) and ISR Special
Program Integration (A2Z). Additionally, the Directorate relies on an Intelligence, Surveillance
and Reconnaissance Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA) program.
12.2. Analysis and Applications Division (A2A). Responsible for obtaining intelligence
analysis and executing intelligence application to include situational awareness and services
essential to planning and operations. Provides threat assessments to acquisitions. Provides
guidance and direction to integrate intelligence into tactics development.
12.3. ISR Operations Division (A2O). Provides management and oversight of current
intelligence collection and ISR weapon systems. Responds to requirements that impact current
ISR capabilities, immediate planning, resources, and implementation.
12.4. ISR Forces Division (A2F). Responsible for force management, resourcing, professional
development, training, education, readiness, utilization, and deployment of all active duty,
civilian, and attached reserve ISR personnel.
12.5. Special Security Office (SSO) (A2S). Focal point for receipt, control, and accountability
of all SCI for the command. Manages the personnel, information, physical, TEMPEST, and
automated information systems security programs for all AFSPC SCI facilities. Formally
publishes policy and instructions concerning SSO management and operations. Advocate for
adequate funding and other resources for effective implementation of SCI security policies and
procedures and associated security awareness and education programs.
12.6. ISR Strategy and Plans Division (A2X). Shapes tomorrow’s AF space ISR and is
responsible for the optimum development, planning and integration of ISR capabilities.
Participates in national, joint, foreign national partners’, and USAF planning processes for future
ISR programs. Coordinates and helps develop intelligence requirements for acquisition
programs. Oversees select ISR programming and budget allocation efforts.
12.7. ISR Special Program Integration Division (A2Z). Focal point for A2 involvement in,
contribution to, and coordination for special programs (SP). Responsible for oversight and
management of ISR integration into SP efforts. Advocates for and acquires national agency,
joint, and foreign national partnerships for ISR future programs.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                             32


                                           Chapter 13
         DIRECTORATE OF AIR, SPACE AND NUCLEAR OPERATIONS (A3)

13.1. Directorate of Air, Space and Nuclear Operations (A3). Organizes, trains and equips
space and missile capabilities in support of the USAF air component to USSTRATCOM.
Provides policy for all intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), missile warning, space
surveillance, satellite control, spacelift, and airfield operations for AFSPC. Supports readiness of
all assigned units. Develops future ICBM employment and space exploitation concepts for all
levels of conflict, and ensures the warfighter’s needs are represented/addressed in AFSPC
strategic planning and acquisition processes.
13.2. Space Situational Awareness (SSA) and Command and Control (C2) Operations
Division (A3C). Provides functional program management for all systems and programs within
the SSA and C2 capability team portfolio; division chief serves as deputy command lead for
SSA and C2. A3C branches include SSA Sensor Operation and Integration (A3CS), C2 System
Operation and Integration (A3CN), and SSA and C2 Architecture and Integration (A3CI).
13.2.1. SSA Sensor Operation and Integration Branch (A3CS). Functional lead for ground
and space based SSA systems.
13.2.1.1. Functional manager for dedicated space surveillance sensors.
13.2.1.1.1. Monitor mission performance of SSA sensors to identify positive/negative trends and
ability of current systems to meet mission needs.
13.2.1.1.2. Resolves deficiencies impacting operations or system performance.
13.2.1.2. Advocates operational requirements for SSA sensor sustainment activities and future
sensor acquisitions.
13.2.1.2.1. Evaluates intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, and environmental sensor data
for possible integration into SSA operations.
13.2.1.2.2. Coordinate SSA requirements with applicable MAJCOM functional managers as
required (Intelligence, Space Environment, etc).
13.2.1.3. Develops and maintains enabling and operating concepts for SSA sensors.
13.2.1.4. Functional Area Manager for the Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS)
for all operational SSA units. Develops, coordinates, and maintains Designed Operational
Capabilities (DOC) statement for all SSA units.
13.2.1.5. Develops AFSPC guidance for SSA sensor operations through MAJCOM supplements
to Air Force Instructions (AFI), Self-Inspection Checklists, etc.
13.2.1.6. Manages operational acceptance of new or modified SSA sensors.
13.2.1.6.1. Support development of Memorandums of Agreement and Host Nation Agreements
for foreign basing of sensors.
13.2.1.6.2. Monitors system tests, evaluations, and reports to ensure fielded capabilities meet
operational requirements.
13.2.1.6.3. Recommends approval for declaration of Initial Operational Capability (IOC) and
Full Operational Capability (FOC).
13.2.1.7. Develops System Operation Protection Guides (SOPG) and provides security
classification guidance for SSA Sensors.
13.2.1.8. Supports SSA force structure analysis and planning activities to include mission area
planning and development of the AFSPC Strategic Master Plan.
13.2.1.9. Plans, programs, budgets and executes O&M funds supporting SSA sensor operations.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         33


13.2.1.10.     Evaluates and implements non-material solutions to improve SSA sensor
performance, utilize non-traditional data, and leverage existing data sources to enhance SSA.
13.2.2. C2 Systems Operation and Integration Branch (A3CN). Functional lead for
operational level space C2 systems that deliver space situational awareness and command and
control capabilities to meet combatant commander mission needs, and tactical level SSA C2
systems.
13.2.2.1. Functional manager for operational level space C2 systems and tactical level SSA C2
systems.
13.2.2.1.1. Monitor mission performance of C2 processing systems to identify positive/negative
trends and ability of current systems to meet mission needs.
13.2.2.1.2. Resolves deficiencies impacting operations or system performance.
13.2.2.1.3. Advocates operational requirements for space C2 system sustainment activities and
future system acquisitions.
13.2.2.2. Integrates and processes intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, and environmental
data to ensure C2 systems present useful, integrated SSA data to the warfighter.
13.2.2.3. Develops and maintains functional and enabling concepts for operational level space
C2 systems, and tactical level SSA C2 systems.
13.2.2.4. Functional Area Manager for the Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS)
for all SSA operational units. Develops, coordinates, and maintains Designed Operational
Capabilities (DOC) statement for all space C2 units.
13.2.2.5. Develops AFSPC guidance for space C2 operations through MAJCOM supplements to
Air Force Instructions (AFI), Self-Inspection Checklists, etc.
13.2.2.6. Manages operational acceptance of new or modified operational level space C2
systems and tactical level SSA C2 systems.
13.2.2.6.1. Monitors system tests, evaluations, and reports to ensure fielded capabilities meet
operational requirements.
13.2.2.6.2. Recommends approval for declaration of Initial Operational Capability (IOC) and
Full Operational Capability (FOC).
13.2.2.7. Develops System Operation Protection Guides (SOPG) and provides security
classification guidance for space defense systems.
13.2.2.8. Supports SSA and operational level C2 force structure analysis and planning activities
to include mission area planning and development of the AFSPC Strategic Recapitalization Plan.
13.2.2.9. Plans, programs, budgets, and executes O&M funds supporting operational C2
systems.
13.2.2.10. Evaluates and implements non-material solutions to improve space C2, integrate and
process non-traditional data, and leverage existing data sources to enhance SSA.
13.2.2.11. Focal point for all AFSPC Blue Force Situational Awareness activities and
integration of space capability into Combat Air Forces.
13.2.3. SSA and C2 Architecture and Integration Branch (A3CI): Supports SSA and C2
portfolio management through development of detailed operational architectures, integrated
functional and enabling concepts, and consolidated programming, budgeting and execution
submissions.
13.2.3.1. Develops DODAF compliant operational architectures for the SSA and C2 mission
areas.
13.2.3.1.1. Provides architecture products to support and inform development of SSA and C2
functional, enabling, and operating concepts.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         34


13.2.3.2. Supports development of strategic level SSA and C2 architectures, roadmaps, and
implementation plans.
13.2.3.3. Develops and maintains mission and sub-mission functional and enabling concepts for
SSA and Space C2 based on operational architectures.
13.2.3.4. Ensures vertical and horizontal integration of SSA and C2 concept documents.
13.2.3.4.1. Reviews draft system enabling and operating concepts for consistency with existing
concept documents and operational architecture.
13.2.3.5. Develops AFSPC guidance for SSA sensor operations through MAJCOM supplements
to Air Force Instructions (AFI), etc.
13.2.3.6. Supports SSA force structure analysis and planning activities to include mission area
planning and development of the AFSPC Strategic Recapitalization Plan.
13.2.3.7. Coordinate efforts to develop synergy between SSA and C2 programs to include
identification of requirements and shortfalls and developing POM inputs.
13.2.3.7.1. Consolidates, integrates, and prioritizes SSA and C2 capability team inputs for all
programming, budgeting, and execution exercises; submits to MAJCOM corporate process after
command lead approval.
13.2.3.8. Identify areas for cooperation between SSA and C2 and other mission capabilities to
include coordination with external organizations to evaluate potential synergies.
13.2.3.9. Serves as the Functional Area Manager for Active Duty, Reserve and Guard C2 units.
13.2.3.9.1. Manages tracking process for allocation of Man Days for Air Force Reserve and
Guard Units
13.3. Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) Operations Division (A3F).
Provides policy, resources and operational oversight of all missile warning and defense, air and
space environment, and space integration operations for Air Force Space Command. The
division is divided into four branches: Ground-based Warning, Defense, & Surveillance Branch
(A3FG), Space-based Warning, Defense, & Surveillance Branch (A3FS), ISR Integration Branch
(A3FI), and Air and Space Weather Branch (A3FW).
13.3.1. Ground-Based Warning, Defense and Surveillance Branch (A3FG):
13.3.1.1. MAJCOM lead for ground based missile warning, missile defense, and surveillance
sensor organizational, training and equipping issues.
13.3.1.2. Provide staff expertise for non-real-time EWR, UEWR, PARCS, and EMR ground
based missile warning, defense and surveillance operational issue.
13.3.1.3. A3 lead to integrate EWR, UEWR, and EMR into the missile defense system
13.3.1.4. Provide DOC statements System Operation Protection Guides (SOPG) and Security
Classification Guide (SCG) guidance.
13.3.1.5. Program Element Monitor and funding advocates for ground-based radar systems (and
other ITW/AA systems).
13.3.1.6. Develop/coordinate ground-based missile warning concepts and advocate for upgrades.
13.3.1.7. Develop/provide policy guidance and direction to NAF/wings/units.
13.3.1.8. Coordinate host nation sensor and site issues: RAF Fylingdales and EMR.
13.3.1.9. Author OIs and SORTS reporting products.
13.3.1.10. Assist in ICD Development and POM Development.
13.3.1.11. Resource advisor to A3 for all Ground Based Radar funding issues.
13.3.2. ISR Integration Branch (A3FI):
13.3.2.1. Form Air Force Space Command Operations Approval Panel (OAP).
13.3.2.2. Ensure configuration control of ITW/AA systems.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                            35


13.3.2.3. Air Force Space Command Electro-Magnetic Pulse (EMP) program manager.
13.3.3. Space Based Warning, Defense and Surveillance Branch (A3FS):
13.3.3.1. Provide staff expertise for non-real-time DSP, SBIRS, USNDS, SEWS and missile
warning operational issues.
13.3.3.2. MAJCOM lead for missile warning and NUDET detection organizational, training and
equipping issues.
13.3.3.3. MAJCOM lead for survivable/endurable (S/E) operations.
13.3.3.4. A3 lead to integrate SBIRS into the ITW/AA system.
13.3.3.5. Provide DOC statements System Operation Protection Guides (SOPG) and Security
Classification Guide (SCG) guidance.
13.3.3.6. Program Element Monitor and funding advocates for SBIRS, USNDS, and SEWS (and
other ITW/AA systems).
13.3.3.7. Lead for development/coordination of space-based TW/AA concepts and advocate for
upgrades.
13.3.3.8. Develop/provide policy guidance and direction to NAF/wings/units.
13.3.3.9. Coordinate host nation sensor and site issues: RGS-E, RGS-P.
13.3.3.10. Author OIs and SORTS reporting products.
13.3.3.11. Assist in ICD Development and POM Development.
13.3.3.12. MAJCOM SME for Nuclear Command and Control System.
13.3.3.13. MAJCOM SME for ITW/AA System.
13.3.3.14. Air Force Space Command Functional Area Manager (FAM) for operational space-
based Missile Warning and NUDET detection systems.
13.3.3.15. Constellation Sustainment Assessment Teams (CSAT) for DSP and SBIRS.
13.3.3.16. Fourteenth Air Force and JFCC-Space interface.
13.3.4. Air and Space Weather Branch (A3FW):
13.3.4.1. Integrate and exploit weather and the space environment in AFSPC operations. AF
lead for weather satellite operations.
13.3.4.2. Command functional manager for weather career field.
13.3.4.3. Provide weather organization, manpower, and personnel training.
13.3.4.4. Interface with HQ USAF, Air Force Weather Agency and other MAJCOMs on Air
Force Weather (AFW) issues.
13.3.4.5. Develop weather and space environment operations policy, procedures, and readiness.
13.3.4.6. Provide technical evaluation of unit forecasting and assistance to units to include Staff
Assistance Visits as requested.
13.3.4.7. Lead advocate for AFSPC weather systems.
13.3.4.8. Primary user liaison for Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP)” and
“National Polar-orbiting Operational Environment Satellite System (NPOESS)”.
13.3.4.9. Interagency liaison for weather and space environment monitoring programs.
13.3.4.10. Oversight of Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP), weather and space
environment concepts, SOPGs and SCGs.
13.3.4.11. Provide AFSPC weather and space environment policy guidance and inspection
guides.
13.3.4.12. Collect and advocate AFSPC requirements for space environment and AF standard
weather systems and training.
13.3.4.13. Ensure weather sensitivities and support requirements are documented in AFSPC
programs.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                           36


13.3.4.14. Interface for operational weather satellite issues; coordination on weather satellite
launch actions and transition from DMSP to NPOESS.
13.3.4.15. Develop DOC statement for all AFSPC weather units; SORTS report monitor.
13.3.4.16. Develop forecast performance metrics; provide quarterly updates to A3 and Air Force
Weather.
13.3.4.17. Program Element Monitor for DMSP and Weather Services for AFSPC
13.3.4.18. Provide personnel augmentation to HQ AFSPC/IG
13.3.4.19. Manages AEF deployments taskings for all weather positions in AFSPC.
13.4 Military Satellite Communications (MILSATCOM) Operations Division (A3M).
Provides policy, resources and operational oversight of all military communications satellite
operations for Air Force Space Command. The division is divided into three branches: Protected
MILSATCOM Operations Branch (A3MP), Wideband MILSATCOM Operations Branch
(A3MW), and Narrowband MILSATCOM Operations Branch Operations Branch (A3MN).
13.4.1. Wideband, Protected Band and Narrowband Satellite Operations Branches
(A3MW, A3MP, and A3MN):
13.4.1.1. Functional Management of End-to-End Satellite Operations.
13.4.1.2. Develop/provide MILSATCOM operational policy and guidance to NAF, wings and
units.
13.4.1.3. Program Element Monitor and funding advocate for Military Satellite Communications
(MILSATCOM) to include: Milstar, Defense Satellite Communications System (DSCS), Global
Broadcast Service (GBS), Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF), Wideband Global
SATCOM (WGS), Enhanced Polar System (EPS), Transformational SATCOM (TSAT), and
MILSATCOM Terminals).
13.4.1.4. Develop/coordinate concepts for future MILSATCOM systems satellite operations.
13.4.1.5. Monitor status of operational assets.
13.4.1.6. Develop SOPGs, SCG and concepts.
13.4.1.7. Program resources for satellite systems/on-orbit and TT&C operations.
13.4.1.8. Designed Operational Capability (DOC) statements and SORTS reporting products to
include Unit Type Code & inputs.
13.4.1.9. Constellation Sustainment Assessment Teams (CSAT).
13.4.1.10. Operational interface with System Program Offices and Air Staff.
13.4.1.11. Fourteenth Air Force interface.
13.4.1.12. NATO interface (MILSATCOM).
13.5. Nuclear and Helicopter Operations Division (A3N). Serves as the AFSPC focal point
for all current and future force applications operations. Originates policy, procedures and
budgetary support to missile wings with operational ICBM missions. Tracks, analyzes and
reports ICBM force capabilities, vulnerabilities, and availability to support the nation’s nuclear
war plans. Reviews and implements nuclear guidance and policy. Determines effectiveness of
ICBM employment tactics. Develops concepts for future space and missile force applications
capabilities. Serves as command lead for ICBM General Officer Steering Group meetings.
13.5.1. Helicopter Operations Branch (A3NH):
13.5.1.1. Functional manager for AFSPC flight operations and rated management. Develops
policy and guidance for the operation of the command’s UH-1N helicopters. Manages the
command flying hour, aircrew life support, training and standardization/evaluation programs.
13.5.1.2. Air Force lead command for UH-1N helicopters. Ensures all requirements associated
with the weapon system receive comprehensive and equitable consideration IAW AFPD 10-9:
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                     37


13.5.1.2.1. Advocating for the weapon system and responding to issues addressing weapon
system status and use.
13.5.1.2.2. Determining requirement for weapon systems upgrade or replacement.
13.5.1.2.3. Managing Contractor Logistics Support contracts.
13.5.1.3. Authoring Mission Design Series (MDS) – specific Air Force instructions,
IAW AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, for the UH-1N.
13.5.1.4. Develops DOC statements and monitors SORTS reporting for all AFSPC flying
units.
13.5.1.5. Program Element Monitor and funding advocate for helicopter operations.
13.5.1.6. Manages AEF deployments taskings for all rated positions in AFSPC.
13.5.1.7 Manages formal training for AFSPC rated community to include scheduling and orders
processing.
13.5.1.8. FAM for AFSPC Helicopter Aircrew Life Support Program to include future life
support requirements
13.5.2. Nuclear Operations and MCCS Branch (A3NN):
13.5.2.1. Command lead on ICBM accuracy and reliability issues. Evaluates ICBM
performance data to determine impact on CDRUSSTRATCOM OPLAN 8010 Global Deterrence
and Strike.
13.5.2.2. Command lead on ICBM fratricide and survivability issues. Performs fratricide
analysis for ICBM reentry systems.
13.5.2.3. Operations lead on ICBM warhead sustainment issues and programs.
13.5.2.4. Develops annual ICBM Pre-Launch Survivability factors and ICBM accuracy and
reliability factors for OPLAN 8010 planning.
13.5.2.5. Monitors status of arms control agreements, weapon system modifications and alert
status of ICBM force to assess their impact on ICBM force structures.
13.5.2.6. Provides Forces Availability reports on ICBM forces to support OPLAN 8010 to
USSTRATCOM planners.
13.5.2.7. Chairs ICBM Survivability Program Review and controls release of ICBM hardness
information.
13.5.2.8. Command lead on ICBM hardness and surveillance issues. Monitors and approves
hardness and surveillance testing at operational sites. Reviews data from testing to control
release to external agencies. Liaison with ICBM SPO on hardness matters. Approval authority
for individual requests for access to ICBM Nuclear Effects Assessment data.
13.5.2.9. Evaluates System Threat Assessment Report (STAR) and other indicators of foreign
threats to determine potential impact on operational ICBM forces and to develop ICBM
employment tactics.
13.5.2.10.       Determines command policy on ICBM EWO operations to support
JCS/USSTRATCOM requirements.
13.5.2.11. Develops, coordinates and publishes command directives for ICBM EWO alert force
procedures.
13.5.2.12. Command lead for strategic communications connectivity tests.
13.5.2.13. Provides operational inputs and requirements to the command force applications
mission area plan.
13.5.2.14. Command Office of Primary Responsibility for managing personnel access to NC2-
ESI data.
13.5.2.15. Member of ICBM Long-Range Planning group.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                     38


13.5.2.16. Command focal point for MCCS current operations.
13.5.2.17. Program Element Monitor for NORTHCOM Mobile Consolidated Command Center
(MCCC).
13.5.2.18. Command lead for USNORTHCOM MCCC.
13.5.3. ICBM Current Operations Branch (A3NO):
13.5.3.1. Command focal point for ICBM current operations.
13.5.3.2. Develops concepts , sets standards, writes policy and coordinates requirements for
ICBM crew force.
13.5.3.3. Manages ICBM and Missile Alert Feeding program and Chef personnel.
13.5.3.4. Manages the ICBM MAF Facility Management and Maintenance program.
13.5.3.5. Manages hardware requirements, command and control systems software changes, and
C3 requirements for ICBM launch control centers.
13.5.3.6. Program Element Monitor for the Minuteman.
13.5.3.7. Program Element Monitor for Operational Headquarters (Offensive) 20 AF.
13.5.3.8. Command focal point for ICBM weapon system’s code systems.
13.5.3.9. ICBM Functional Area Manager for Command’s Status of Resources and Training
Systems (SORTS) program.
13.5.3.10. Command focal point for Rapid Execution and Combat Targeting (REACT)
operations and software changes.
13.5.3.11. Focal point for AFSPC Automated Information System.
13.5.3.12. Directorate representative for ICBM Long-Range Planning.
13.5.3.13. Command focal point for Airborne Launch Control System
13.5.3.14. Directorate lead for ICBM Systems Security Standard and Security Forces issues.
13.5.3.15. Directorate lead for ICBM modifications programs.
13.5.3.16. Directorate lead for Nuclear Weapon System Safety Group and Unauthorized Launch
studies.
13.5.3.17. Division representative to the ICBM Configuration Control Board.
13.5.3.18. Provides operational inputs and requirements to the command force applications
mission area plan.
13.5.3.19. Develops Concepts of Operation (CONOPS) for future force applications missions.
13.5.3.20. Formulates Directorate positions on future systems, such as: Missile Defense
systems, the Space Operations Vehicle, the Space-based Laser, and the Ballistic Missile
Replacement.
13.5.3.21. Ensures Battle Management/Command, Control and Communications C3 systems are
designed to optimize use of the battlespace.
13.5.3.22. Develops concepts for counter WMD.
13.5.3.23. Command lead on Counter WMD issues.
13.5.3.24. Operations Command lead for CBRN.
13.6. Current Operations Division (A3O). Command Lead for Current Operations. Operates
the HQ AFSPC Command Center, to include maintenance of associated communications
equipment and training of personnel. Reviews/monitors unit readiness and informs senior
leadership of command's readiness. Plans and provides AFSPC warfighting and support force
availability to worldwide war planners. Develops AFSPC's AEF policies and guidance.
Function as the Office of FAM Oversight (OFAMO). Leads development, review and
coordination of operational, contingency and support plans. Issues mobilization orders to
AFSPC-gained reserve component. Provides oversight and leadership of the AFSPC crisis
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                        39


action team. Develops and issues crisis action orders to subordinate units. Issues and enforces
AFSPC-unique command post policy and procedures.
13.6.1. Operations Readiness Branch (A3OR):
13.6.1.1. Provides policy and guidance for AFSPC units Global Status Of Resources and
Training System (GSORTS) reporting.
13.6.1.1.1. Manages the AFSPC unit registry in GSORTS
13.6.1.1.2. Schedules AETC GSORTS Mobile Training Team (MTT) for unit training.
13.6.1.1.3. Conducts Staff Assistance Visits and training for Wings.
13.6.1.2. Manages the AFSPC GSORTS Designed Operational Capability (DOC) Statements.
13.6.1.3. AFSPC OPR for the DoD Readiness Reporting System (DRRS).
13.6.1.4. Provides policy and guidance for AFSPC units Enhanced Status Of Resources and
Training System (ESORTS) reporting.
13.6.1.5. Manages the AFSPC Mission Essential Task (MET) process.
13.6.1.6. Manages the AFSPC Mission Directives.
13.6.1.7. Produces and presents the monthly SORTS briefing to the HQ AFSPC senior staff,
NAFs and Centers.
13.6.1.8. Conducts audits of GSORTS and ESORTS databases and directs corrective action as
required.
13.6.1.9. Conducts training for new Squadron Commanders at the Squadron Commanders
Course.
13.6.1.10. Conducts training for GSORTS, DRRS, ESORTS and METs.
13.6.2. Command Post Policy and Procedures Branch (A3OP):
13.6.2.1. Command Functional manager for Command Post (1C3XX) AFSC. Validates,
justifies and manages command career field authorizations.
13.6.2.1.1.    Determine command post organization, manpower, and personnel training
requirements. Ensures authorization levels are adequate to support command tasking.
13.6.2.1.2. Advocates operational requirements for current and future command post system
acquisitions.
13.6.2.1.3.    Establishes and monitors command training requirements, allocations and
submissions for 1C3XX career field. Manages AETC formal course training for command post
courses, which includes annual quotas.
13.6.2.1.4. Plans for and implements new command post training initiatives by investigating
innovative training procedures and software.
13.6.2.2. Validates and manages Unit Type Codes (UTC), Air Expeditionary Force (AEF)
requirements and AEF Reporting Tool (ART) for 1C3XX career field. Assists base level
managers with deployment operations as required.
13.6.2.3. Establishes policy and guidance for command post management, operations training
and evaluation programs and develops and manages performance standards across all mission
areas.
13.6.2.3.1. Administers, develops and publishes guidance for the AFSPC command post awards
programs IAW AFI 36-2818, The USAF Maintenance Awards Program.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         40


13.6.2.4. Acquires advanced and supplemental training. Develops Career Field Education and
Training (CFETP) and training requirements.
13.6.2.4.1. Represent the command, where appropriate, at training forums to include but not
limited to 1C3XX Career Field Enlisted Progression Counsel (CFEPC) and the Utilization
Training & Working Group (UT&W), Integrated Product Teams (IPTs) and Integrated Concept
Teams (ICTs).
13.6.2.4.2. Develops career field training material to include Career Development Course
(CDC), Career Field Education and Training Plans (CFETP), 3- and 7-level course development,
and specialty descriptions through Utilization and Training Workshops (U&TW).
13.6.2.5. Develops AFSPC policy guidance and direction to NAF/wings/units for the command
post operations through MAJCOM supplements to Air Force Instructions (AFI), Self-Inspection
Checklists, etc.
13.6.2.5.1. Provides procedural guidance and resolves operational issues, and coordinates and
prepares for publication, instructions, supplements, interim changes, and mission performance
checklists on all aspects of AFSPC command post management.
13.6.2.5.2.    Provide personnel augmentation, scenario, training evaluation support to
HQ AFSPC/IG. Assists HQ AFSPC/IG with validating inspection findings and helps the wing
with resolution.
13.6.2.5.3. Performs Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) to field units as part of the process of
keeping the units educated and informed. Ensures compliance with public law, DoD and USAF
direction for command post operations and reporting.
13.6.2.6. Responds and assists AFSPC Crisis Action Team (CAT) identifying command post
requirements and responsibilities.
13.6.2.7. Manages Operational Reporting (OPREP-3) program. Consolidates monthly OPREP-
3 data and analyzes various reports for timeliness, accuracy and completeness. Consolidates data
and provides feedback to units to improve the reporting accuracy to HQ AF and NMCC.
13.6.2.8. Reviews HQ AF guidance and retransmits information to NAF/Wing Command Posts.
13.6.3. Adaptive Planning Branch (A3OX).
13.6.3.1. Provides policy and guidance to AFSPC units on various planning activities, to
include, but not limited to: continuity of operations (COOP), contingency planning and crisis
action planning.
13.6.3.2. Responsible for the AFSPC crisis action team (CAT).
13.6.3.2.1. Ensures readiness of the AFSPC CAT to support the AFSPC/CC in event of an
emergency/crisis.
13.6.3.2.2. In coordination with the Current Operations Branch (A3OO), ensures alternate
locations are identified and prepared for use, in event the primary location becomes unusable.
13.6.3.2.3. Develops exercise scenarios, in conjunction with A3TX, to prepare the AFSPC CAT
to perform duties/responsibilities on behalf of the AFSPC/CC.
13.6.3.2.4.    Establishes procedures for use by the CAT in performing assigned
duties/responsibilities.
13.6.3.3. Manages the AFSPC COOP program.
13.6.3.3.1. Assists subordinate units in developing/maintaining COOP plans.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                        41


13.6.3.3.2. Maintains a copy of all AFSPC unit COOP plans.
13.6.3.3.3. Ensures unit compliance with HQ AF and AFSPC guidance.
13.6.3.3.4. Reports on unit COOP deficiencies.
13.6.3.4. Develops AFSPC plans in support of unified combatant commander (UCC)
contingency plans.
13.6.3.4.1. Coordinates AFSPC staff effort in developing plans to support various contingency
plans.
13.6.3.4.2. Maintains a plans library.
13.6.3.4.3. Considered to have “need to know” on all plans affecting AFSPC.
13.6.3.4.4.  Serves as the “single point of entry” for UCC plans requiring AFSPC
review/coordination.
13.6.3.5. Manages the mobilization of reserve component forces gained by AFSPC.
13.6.3.5.1. Coordinates with appropriate functional area managers (FAM) on identifying unit to
mobilize.
13.6.3.5.2. In conjunction with HQ AFSPC/A1, submits mobilization request to appropriate
approving authority (normally HQ AF).
13.6.3.5.3. After approval, coordinates with appropriate FAM(s) to notify unit of mobilization.
13.6.3.6. Conducts crisis action planning in response to taskings from USSTRATCOM and HQ
AF; issues orders to AFSPC units as required.
13.6.3.7. Develops and maintains the HQ AFSPC COOP plan.
13.6.4. AEF and Deployments Branch (A3OD).
13.6.4.1. Provides policy and guidance for all AFSPC AEF deployments
13.6.4.2. AFSPC OPR for the Air and Space Expeditionary Force Reporting Tool (ART)
13.6.4.3. Schedules AETC DCAPES Mobile Training Team (MTT) for unit training
13.6.4.4. Schedules and Manages quotas for the Contingency Wartime Planners Course
(CWPC).
13.6.4.5. Conducts AEF Spread the Word briefings and training for Wings.
13.6.4.6. Conducts training for new Squadron Commanders at the Squadron Commanders
Course.
13.6.5. Current Operations Branch (A3OO).
13.6.5.1. Organize, train, equip and operate the AFSPC Command Center, which is designated
as the MAJCOM C2 facility.
13.6.5.1.1. Communicates Air Force service direction and AFSPC/CC direction to AFSPC units
and oversees the Command Post (CP) activities of assigned NAFs, wings and DRUs in AFSPC.
13.6.5.1.2. Ensures timely dissemination of information from individual reporting sources that
may indicate any adverse trend impacting the command.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                          42


13.6.5.1.3. Reports directly to the NMCC and AFSWC on incidents affecting AF and MAJCOM
assets.
13.6.5.1.4. Performs and directs C2 actions supporting Emergency Actions (EA), Operations
Orders (OPORDs) and Operations Plans (OPLANs).
13.6.5.1.5. Tracks location and availability of key AFSPC personnel.
13.6.5.1.6. Maintains and updates operational status at all times to ensure situational awareness
throughout the CP.
13.6.5.1.7. Maintains and disseminates forecast and current weather information.
13.6.5.1.8. Develops and disseminates the daily AFSPC Operations Summary (OPSUM) and A3
Operations/Intelligence briefing.
13.6.5.2. Monitors CP communications systems and provides maintenance support for affected
equipment.
13.6.5.3. Develops training materials and provides both initial and recurring training for all CP
personnel.
13.7. Positioning, Navigation, and Timing (PNT) Operations Division (A3P). Provides
policy, resources and operational oversight of the Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation
system operations for Air Force Space Command. The division is divided into two branches:
Space Segment Branch (A3PS) and Ground Segment Branch (A3PG).
13.7.1. PNT Space Segment (A3PS) and Ground Segment (A3PG) Operations Branches:
13.7.1.1. Functional Management of End-to-End Satellite Operations.
13.7.1.2. Develop/provide space-based navigation and NAVWAR operational policy and
guidance to NAF, wings and units.
13.7.1.3. Program Element Monitor and funding advocate for space-based navigation system
13.7.1.4. Develop/coordinate concepts for future space-based navigation systems.
13.7.1.5. Monitor status of operational assets.
13.7.1.6. Develop SOPGs, SCG and concepts.
13.7.1.7. Program resources for satellite systems/on-orbit and TT&C operations.
13.7.1.8. Designed Operational Capability (DOC) statements and SORTS reporting products to
include Unit Type Code & inputs.
13.7.1.9. Constellation Sustainment Assessment Teams (CSAT).
13.7.1.10. Operational interface with System Program Offices and Air Staff.
13.7.1.11. Department of Transportation (DOT) interface for GPS operations.
13.7.1.12. Fourteenth Air Force interface.
13.8. Resources and Requirements Division (A3R). Develops policy and guidance for
operations of AFSPC space launch, range systems, command-managed airfields, and air traffic
systems. Assures system employment, site operations and support for space launch and airfield
employment. Develops concepts for future capabilities and advocates requirements for Evolved
Expendable Launch Vehicle. The division is divided into two branches: Airfield and Aviation
Operations Branch (A3RA) and Spacelift, Range & AFSCN Branch (A3RS).
13.8.1. Airfield Operations Branch (A3RA):
13.8.1.1.    AFSPC functional managers for airfield management, operational resource
management and air traffic control (ATC).
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                        43


13.8.1.2. Develops and standardizes policies and procedures within the scope of USAF and
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) directives for operations, training and management
functions.
13.8.1.3. Evaluates airfields for services provided, airfield/airspace obstruction waivers and
pavement criteria IAW USAF, FAA and DoD standards.
13.8.1.4. Coordinates and evaluates new ATC systems requirements for adequacy of equipment,
staffing and time-phasing.
13.8.1.5. Reviews and analyzes operational data pertaining to aircraft mishaps, hazardous
reports, Military Facility Deviations, etc. to ensure corrective actions are initiated.
13.8.1.6. Determines command requirements, upgrades, modifications of Air Traffic Control
and Landing Systems (ATCALS) equipment.
13.8.1.7. Program Element Monitor and funding advocate for ATCALS.
13.8.1.8. Develops Airspace Five-Year Plan and reviews annual airspace usage reports.
13.8.1.9. Manages Operational Support Flying Man-Years and distributes operational support
flying man-years.
13.8.1.10. Coordinates all joint-use issues concerning civilian use of airfields.
13.8.2. Spacelift, Range and AFSCN Branch (A3RS):
13.8.2.1. Commercial:
13.8.2.1.1. Interagency liaison for commercial space issues.
13.8.2.1.2. MAJCOM lead for development of Commercial Space Operations Support
Agreement.
13.8.2.1.3. A3 lead on AFSPC Commercial Space Real Property Policy.
13.8.2.1.4. A3 lead on AFSPC Commercial Space Activities Pricing Policy.
13.8.2.1.5. Develop/Coordinate AFSPC Instruction for Commercial Space Launch.
13.8.2.1.6. Translates Commercial Space Launch Act into MAJCOM policy.
13.8.2.1.7. MAJCOM lead on Commercial Spaceport Issues.
13.8.2.1.8. Conducts commercial space industry leader’s conference semi-annually.
13.8.2.2. Operations:
13.8.2.2.1. Maintains 36-month Space Launch Manifest.
13.8.2.2.2. Conducts Launch Information Support Architecture Program Management.
13.8.2.2.3. Provides 8-year U.S. Space Launch National Launch Forecast (NLF).
13.8.2.2.4. Establishes Policy and Guidance for Space Launch and Range Operations.
13.8.2.2.5. Monitors status of all space launch operations.
13.8.2.2.6. Provides PEMs with Combatant Command (COCOM) reliability and sustainment
modeling forecasts (Operational Satellite Constellation Availability and Reliability Simulation
(OSCARS)).
13.8.2.2.7. Perform Functional Area Management of end-to-end space launch and range
operations.
13.8.2.2.8. Develop DOC statements and monitor SORTS reporting for all AFSPC spacelift and
range units.
13.8.2.2.9. Manage manpower, training and materiel resources for the operation of spacelift and
range units.
13.8.2.2.10. Program Element Monitor and funding advocate for medium and heavy space
launch vehicles and the inertial upper stage.
13.8.2.2.11. Program Element Monitor and funding advocate for the eastern and western
ranges.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                        44


13.8.2.2.12. Program Element Monitor and funding advocate for spacelift operations analysis
and the DoD Manned Space Flight program.
13.8.2.2.13. Command lead for development or deactivation and transition plans from heritage
launch operations to Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV) operations.
13.8.2.2.14. Operations lead for the activation of the Range Standardization and Automation
upgrades to the eastern and western ranges.
13.8.2.2.15. NASA interface for AFSCN Operations.
13.8.2.2.16. PEM for all AFSCN issues/systems
13.8.2.2.17. Develops concepts for future AFSCN upgrades/replacements
13.9. Training, Test, Exercises and Evaluation Division (A3T). Provides space combat
operations forces training, evaluation and testing ensuring successful accomplishment of
assigned mission areas. Serves as HQ AFSPC functional manager for operational training
systems and OPR for policy and guidance for AFSPC’s STDs. The Division is divided into four
branches: Operations Testing and Evaluation Branch (A3TO), Operations Training and
Evaluation Branch (A3TT), Exercise Branch (A3TX), and the Weapons and Tactics Branch
(A3TW).
13.9.1. Operations Testing and Evaluation Branch (A3TO):
13.9.1.1. Sets Force Development Evaluation (FDE) policy for missile warning, space
surveillance, space control, spacelift and satellite control systems and all ICBM test launch
activities.
13.9.1.2. Maintains Consolidated Test List (CTL).
13.9.1.3. Prepares mission type orders for AFSCP/CV signature.
13.9.1.4. Works with HQ AFSPC program element managers to ensure funds are available for
all AFSPC conducted test programs.
13.9.1.5. Reviews and recommends all test plans for HQ AFSPC/A3 coordination.
13.9.1.6. Obtains HQ AFSPC/A3 approval for the release of all SIDC developed test reports,
except for ITW/AA End-to-End test reports which are released by USSTRATCOM/J6.
13.9.1.7. Command lead for review and coordination of Associated Operations request for
ICBM test launches.
13.9.1.8. Manages the Test and Evaluation selection board for the 17th Test Squadron and 576th
Flight Test Squadron.
13.9.1.9. Command lead for review and approval of all requests for release of FDE Data.
13.9.2. Operations Training and Stan/Evaluation Branch (A3TT):
13.9.2.1. Manages the 13SX (Space and Missile Operations Officer) career field to include all
associated manning requirements for 8 space and missile wings.
13.9.2.2. Determines fiscal year (FY) Trained Personnel Requirements (TPR) for formal AETC
training courses and submits requirements to HQ AFPC and HQ AFSPC/A1. Manages the TPR
training allocations for AFSPC’s officer space operations training.
13.9.2.3. Establishes policy and guidance for crew force management, operations training and
evaluation programs across all mission areas.
13.9.2.4. Member Training Planning Teams (TPT) for all operational systems. Ensures
operations training requirements are provided to the TPT for inclusion in the applicable System
Training Plan.
13.9.2.5. Establishes policy, basic requirements and provides guidance for development and
maintenance of operations technical data.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                      45


13.9.2.6. Provides configuration management oversight for all Space Training Devices (STD).
Performs annual Simulator Certifications on STDs to ensure off-line trainers replicate the
operational environment.
13.9.2.7. OPR for policy and guidance for operations training devices/space training devices.
13.9.2.8. Functional manager for operations training devices/space training devices.
13.9.2.9. Advocates HQ AFSPC requirements during the acquisition, modification and support
of operations training devices/space training devices.
13.9.2.10. Provides command authorization, distribution, monitoring and disposition of
operation training devices/space training devices.
13.9.3. Exercise Branch (A3TX):
13.9.3.1. Establishes a MAJCOM exercise program IAW AFI 10-204, Readiness Exercises and
After Action Reporting Program.
13.9.3.2. Leads the AFSPC Scheduling and Resources Process Team (SRPT) as defined in AFI
10-204, AFSPC Sup 1.
13.9.3.3 Builds and manages AFSPC Consolidated Exercise Schedule (ACES) per AFI 10-204,
AFSPC Sup 1.
13.9.3.4. Provides guidance on the planning and execution of exercises to subordinate units.
13.9.3.5. Builds, manages and maintains AFSPC exercise web site for exercise and scheduling
support.
13.9.4. Weapons and Tactics Branch (A3TW):
13.9.4.1. Oversees tactics development IAW AFI 11-260, Tactics Development Program, and
AFSPCI 10-260, Tactics Development Program.
13.9.4.2. Normalizes space tactics development and documentation with CAF. Provides
guidance to subordinate units on submission of tactics for the annual Tactics Review Board.
13.9.4.3. Organizes and conducts an annual AFSPC Weapons and Tactics Conference.
13.9.4.4. Organizes and conducts an annual Tactics Review Board (TRB).
13.9.4.5. Liaisons with the USAF Weapons School 328 Weapons Squadron and advocates for
their concerns to AFSPC/Air Staff.
13.9.4.6. Oversees funding for AFSPC two-week spin-up course and six-month Weapons
School (WS) Course (Jan – Jun, Jul – Dec).
13.9.4.7. Manages and processes selection packages for 328 Weapons Squadron nominees.
Serves as board member for the WS Selection Board (Mar/Sep).
13.9.4.8. Serves as functional manager for W13SX career field. Maintains the W13SX “Priority
List” IAW AFI 10-415 and AFSPCI 11-415. Coordinates updates to the priority list with
ACC/A3TW and HQ AFPC/DPA001. Provides assignment recommendations for to HQ
AFPC/DPA001.
13.9.4.9. Oversees development of all AFSPC related Air Force Tactics, Techniques and
Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1, Volumes.
13.9.4.10. Serves as functional manager for 13S and 1C6 deployments.
13.10. Space C2 and Integration Division (A3Z). Provide timely, accurate and complete real
time warning/alerting, daily summaries and weekly briefings of relevant information on Air
Force Space Command resources and national direction to the AFSPC/CC, CV, DS,
Headquarters Directors, Numbered Air Forces and wing operations centers. Facilitate the
operational reporting (OPREP) flow from AFSPC units to the command staff and higher
headquarters.
13.10.1. Space Concepts Branch (A3ZE):
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         46


13.10.1.1. OPR for AF-level Space & C13ISR CONOPS
13.10.1.2. Establishes guidance and policy for production of functional and enabling concepts to
drive the command’s integrated planning process (IPP)
13.10.1.3. Provides training for action officers from all directorates for concept development
13.10.1.4. Develop and maintain six AFSPC Functional Concepts as ops input to AFSPC IPP
13.10.2. Space Integration Operations Branch (A3ZI):
13.10.2.1.    Provides timely, customer focused policy and guidance for the ITW/AA
configuration management processes.
13.10.2.2. Command lead for Change Control Process for the ITW/AA System.
13.10.2.3. Chairs AFSPC’s Operations Approval Panel (OAP).
13.10.2.4. Prevents ITW/AA system disconnects during scheduled upgrades and revisions.
13.10.2.5. A3 POC for the NORAD/NORTHCOM and USSTRATCOM Operations Approval
Board (OAB).
13.10.2.6. Provide staff expertise for Blue Force Tracking issues.
13.10.2.7. MAJCOM lead for missile defense organizational, training and equipping issues.
13.10.2.8. Program Element Monitor and funding advocates for Shared Early Warning Systems
(SEWS).
13.10.2.9. Develop/provide policy guidance and direction to NAF/wings/units.
13.10.2.10. Assist in ICD Development and POM Development.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                             47


                                           Chapter 14
DIRECTORATE OF INSTALLATIONS, LOGISTICS, AND MISSION SUPPORT (A4/7)

14.1. Directorate of Installations, Logistics and Mission Support (A4/7). Responsible for
lifecycle sustainment of AFSPC systems, capabilities and installations. Develops logistics,
installation support, and contract policies, plans and programs. Provides direction and allocates
resources for all Command activities associated with maintenance, munitions, transportation,
supply contracting, logistics plans, civil engineering and security. Develops, directs, and
provides guidance to design, construct, renovate, operate, maintain and repair facilities to support
core Command capabilities. Implements policies and plans; accountable for providing security,
force protection, anti-terrorism and information, physical and personnel security for space and
nuclear mission; expeditionary combat support readiness; fire protection; disaster preparedness
and explosive ordnance disposal; base development and operations; Military Construction
Program projects; facilities excellence; and environmental protection.
14.2. ICBM System Sustainment Division (A4N). Develops and issues policies, provides
policy guidance, evaluates program performance, allocates and distributes resources, and
conducts planning, programming, budgeting and analyses for sustainment, modification and
modernization of helicopter and Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) weapons systems.
14.2.1. Nuclear C2 Systems Branch (A4NC). Primary interface with Air Staff A4M,
component NAF and installation Logistics Squadron program managers for Logistics,
Installations and Mission Support for C4I systems used in the dissemination of nuclear command
and control messages, orders and missile control data.
14.2.1.1. Training. Oversees training requirements development for all missile communication
maintenance.
14.2.1.2. Regulatory Compliance. Oversees ICBM C4I systems compliance with legal and
regulatory requirements.
14.2.1.3. Logistics Support Requirements. Plans, directs, formulates and integrates logistics
support requirements to meet cost, schedule, performance and / or ICBM C4I system operational
requirements.
14.2.1.4. Life Extension Projects. Oversees ICBM communications technical modifications and
life extension projects.
14.2.1.5. Automation and Telecommunications Technology. Directs commercial vendors in
development and /or application of new automation and / or telecommunications technology for
ICBM C4I systems.
14.2.2. Missile Systems Branch (A4NI). Primary interface with Air Staff A4M, component
NAF and installation Logistics Squadron program managers for modification, sustainment,
logistics support, equipment, and resource allocation for ICBM systems.
14.2.2.1. Modification and Sustainment Programs. Plans and integrates Minuteman (MM) III
ICBM’s fleet-wide modification and sustainment programs.
14.2.2.2. Logistics Support. Develops and oversees logistics support plans for future nuclear
and conventional missile systems.
14.2.2.3. Equipment. Oversees the upgrade and modification of Launch Facility operational
ground equipment, aerospace vehicle equipment and support equipment.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                    48


14.2.2.4. Resource Management. Oversees ICBM life extension, Periodic Depot Maintenance
and ICBM Weapon System Risk Management programs resource allocation.
14.2.3. Mission Systems Support Branch (A4NM). Primary interface with Air Staff A4M,
component NAF and installation Logistics Squadron program managers for mission systems
training, data management, policy, and reporting.
14.2.3.1. Sustainment Training. Develops policy, plans and training requirements for MM III
ICBM force sustainment.
14.2.3.2. Program Oversight. Oversees corrosion, deficiency reporting, environmental
compliance, and lifecycle logistics programs.
14.2.3.3. Data Management. Oversees maintenance training, multi-wing technical orders,
maintenance data systems, supply point contracts and Precision Measurement Equipment Labs.
14.2.3.4. Policy Development. Develops sustainment policy for ICBM and helicopter
technicians and develops logistics management information policy for AF eLog21, RE21, and
AFmx21 efforts.
14.2.5. Munitions Maintenance Branch (A4NW). Primary interface with Air Staff A4,
component NAF and installation Logistics Squadron program managers for munitions
maintenance.
14.2.5.1. Munitions Modification. Manages munitions modification programs, system
conversion, weapon retirements, new deployments and resultant redistribution of weapons.
14.2.5.2. Weapons Movement. Directs interagency weapons movements and monitors all
Nuclear Weapons Report input to nuclear weapons stockpile database.
14.2.5.3. Test Programs. Manages weapons and equipment resources to support DOE and DOD
test programs.
14.2.5.4. Stockpile Verification. Develops policy for compliance with JS directed munitions
Stockpile Verification plans.
14.2.5.5. Conventional Munitions. Directs all AFSPC conventional munitions programs.
14.2.5.6. Corrosion Control. Serves as the AFSPC Corrosion Control Program Manager.
14.3. Logistics Readiness Division (A4R). Develops and issues policies, provides policy
guidance, evaluates program performance, allocates and distributes resources, and conducts
planning, programming, budgeting and analyses for Command materiel, transportation, and
logistics.
14.3.1. Materiel Management Branch (A4RM). Primary interface with Air Staff A4RM,
component NAF and installation Logistics Squadron program managers for Logistics,
Installations and Mission Support for materiel management.
14.3.1.1. Equipment, Fuels, Vehicle and Materiel Management. Provides policy and oversight
for all aspects of equipment, fuels, vehicle, and materiel management.
14.3.2. Plans and Integration Branch (A4RX). Primary interface with Air Staff A4RX,
component NAF and installation Logistics Squadron program managers for Logistics,
Installations and Mission Support for logistics plans and integration.
14.3.2.1. Logistics Planning and Oversight. Provides Command logistics planning and
readiness oversight for AFSPC units during peacetime and war.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                             49


14.3.2.2. Property. Responsible for developing, interpreting and promulgating DoD, AF, and
AFSPC procedures and policies to AFSPC units regarding the movement and storage of personal
property and the transportation of official DoD travelers and cargo.
14.3.2.3. Deployment Planning. Provides Command policy and guidance for deployment
planning and execution, including support agreements management, war reserve materiel
management, and expeditionary site planning and execution.
14.4. Space Systems Sustainment Division (A4S). Develops and issues policies, provides
policy guidance, evaluates program performance, allocates and distributes resources, and
conducts planning, programming, budgeting and analyses for maintenance and logistics
lifecycle management for space ground systems and launch, sustainment requirements for
acquisition, and is the Command Lifecycle Logistics Manager for assigned systems.
14.4.1. SSA and C2 Branch (A4SA). Primary interface with Acquisition Centers and Air Staff
A4MM, installation Logistics Squadron program managers for Logistics, Installations and
Mission Support for sustainment support for Space Situational Awareness (SSA) and Command
and Control (C2) systems.
14.4.1.1. Acquisition. Formulates and integrates life cycle logistics supportability requirements
into key acquisition program decision documents.
14.4.1.2. SSA and C2 Logistics Standardization and Normalization. Oversees establishes unit
maintenance organizational structures.
14.4.1.3. Maintenance Policy and Guidance. Develops and oversees implementation of policy
for maintenance and sustainment of assigned systems.
14.4.1.4. Space System Sustainment. Assesses the performance of operational systems and
associated equipment against documented mission requirements.
14.4.2. MILSATCOM Sustainment Branch (A4SM). Primary interface with Air Staff
A4MM with Acquisition Centers and installation Logistics Squadron program managers for
Logistics, Installations and Mission Support for readiness, safety, reliability, maintainability and
sustainability for Military Satellite Communication (MILSATCOM) systems.
14.4.2.1. Command Lifecycle Logistics Manager (CLM). CLM for MILSATCOM systems.
14.4.2.2. Acquisition. Formulates and integrates life cycle logistics supportability requirements
into key MILSATCOM acquisition program decision documents. Responsible for all acquisition
and life cycle logistics support requirements.
14.4.2.3. Sustainment. Determines and coordinates critical cross-program depot-level
sustainment and unit level lifecycle logistics support activities.
14.4.3. Policy and Programs Branch (A4SP). Primary interface with Air Staff A4MM,
Acquisition Centers and installation Logistics Squadron program managers for Logistics,
Installations and Mission Support for space systems life cycle logistics and maintenance policy
and programs.
14.4.3.1. System Health Analysis and Prediction. Assesses the current, and predicts the future,
health of space system ground segments.
14.4.3.2. Maintenance. Publishes checklists for Command-wide Operational Readiness
Inspections, and Compliance Inspections. Oversees data collection systems, including Integrated
Maintenance Data System (IMDS) and Reliability and Maintainability Information System
(REMIS).
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                          50


14.4.3.3. Space Logistics Review (SLR). Organizes and schedules SLR dates and coordinates
SLR content.
14.4.3.4. Policy. Develops policy and supplements for AF technical orders for space systems.
14.4.4. Launch, Ranges and Networks Branch (A4SS). Primary interface with Air Staff
A4MM, Acquisition Centers and installation Logistics Squadron program managers for
Logistics, Installations and Mission Support for space launch and space support systems
sustainment for Launch Test Range Systems, Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN) and
Command and Control (C2) systems.
14.4.4.1. Command Lifecycle Logistics Manager (CLM). CLM for space launch and space
Command and Control systems.
14.4.4.2.  Space System Maintenance Policy and Guidance.        Develops and oversees
implementation of policy for maintenance and sustainment of Launch Test Range Systems,
AFSCN and C2 systems.
14.4.4.3. Space System Sustainment. Assesses the performance of operational systems and
associated equipment against documented mission requirements.
14.4.5. ISR Branch (A4SW). Primary interface with Air Staff A4MM, Acquisition Centers and
installation Logistics Squadron program managers for Logistics, Installations and Mission
Support for missile warning and defense, and Positioning, Navigation and Timing (PNT)
systems.
14.4.5.1. Command Lifecycle Logistics Manager (CLM). CLM for missile warning and
defense, and PNT systems.
14.4.5.2. Acquisition. Formulates and integrates life cycle logistics supportability requirements
into key acquisition program decision documents.
14.4.5.3. Sustainment. Assesses the performance of operational systems and associated
equipment against documented mission requirements.
14.4.6. Space Superiority Branch (A4SY). Primary interface with Air Staff A4MM,
Acquisition Centers and installation Logistics Squadron program managers for Logistics,
Installations and Mission Support for space control (Offensive Counterspace, Defensive
Counterspace, and Space Situational Awareness).
14.4.6.1. Command Lifecycle Logistics Manager (CLM). CLM for assigned space control
systems.
14.4.6.2. Classified Space Acquisition. Plans and formulates requirements, concepts, and
objectives in coordination with acquisition strategies for current and future space control
systems.     Integrates logistics supportability requirements into key acquisition program
documents.
14.4.6.3. Planning. Develops Logistics Support Plans, Configuration Management Plans
(CMP), Computer Working Groups, System Acquisition Management Plans (SAMP), Test and
Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP), System Training Plans, Sustainment Plans, Maintenance
Concepts, and Maintenance Plans for assigned space control systems. Command representative
to unified combatant commands, joint service components and force providers, and the Air and
Space Expeditionary Force Center (AEFC).
14.4.6.4. Training. Focal point for Space Control logistics contingency, exercise, and training
events IAW AFI 10-403.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                       51


14.5. Programs Division (A4/7P). Develops and issues policies, provides policy guidance,
evaluates program performance, allocates and distributes resources, and conducts planning,
programming, budgeting and analyses for Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
comprehensive planning, environmental planning, housing master planning, strategic planning,
and capital improvement programs to include Military.             Oversees Construction and
Environmental Cleanup, POM requirements definition and program development and facility
and infrastructure sustainment, restoration and modernization.
14.5.1. Capital Improvements Branch (A4/7PC). Primary interface with Air Staff A7CP,
AFCEE, component NAF and installation Civil Engineer Squadron program managers for
Logistics, Installation and Mission Support capital improvements.
14.5.1.1. Capital Improvements Liaison. Develops, disseminates, and oversees Command
Capital Improvements Liaison policy on MILCON and Environmental Cleanup Programs.
14.5.2. Program Development Branch (A4/7PD). Primary interface with Air Staff A7CP,
AFCEE, AFCESA, component NAF and installation Civil Engineer Squadron program managers
for Logistics, Installations and Mission Support program development.
14.5.2.1.    POM Requirements Definition.          Provides professional guidance, develops,
disseminates, and oversees major Command POM Requirements Definition policy and guidance.
14.5.2.2. Sustainment, Restorations, and Modernization (SRM). Provides professional guidance,
develops, disseminates, and oversees Command SRM oversight policy and guidance.
14.5.3. Plans Branch (A4/7PP). Primary interface with Air Staff A7CI, AFCEE, AFCESA,
component NAF and installation Civil Engineer Squadron program managers for Logistics,
Installations and Mission Support planning.
14.5.3.1. Comprehensive Planning. Provides professional guidance, develops, disseminates, and
oversees major Command Comprehensive Planning policy and guidance for Comprehensive
Planning and encroachment issues.
14.5.3.2. Environmental Planning. Provides professional guidance, develops, disseminates, and
oversees major Command Environmental Planning policy and guidance for Environmental
Planning and encroachment issues.
14.5.3.3. Housing Master Planning. Provides professional guidance, develops, disseminates,
and oversees major Command Military Family Housing (MFH) and Unaccompanied Housing
(UH) planning policy and guidance.
14.5.3.4. Strategic Planning. Provides professional guidance, develops, disseminates, and
oversees major Command Strategic Planning policy and guidance.
14.6. Resources Division (A4/7R). Develops and issues policies, provides policy guidance,
evaluates program performance, allocates and distributes resources, and conducts planning,
programming, budgeting and analyses for Logistics, Installations and Mission Support financial
portfolio, force management, and information technology.
14.6.1. Financial Management Branch (A4/7RF). Primary interface with Air Staff A7CR,
installation resource advisors, Command program managers, and Command funds manager for
Logistics, Installations and Mission Support financial management.
14.6.1.1. Budget, Resource Allocation and Financial Management. Responsible for budget
formulation, resource allocation and financial management for Real Property Sustainment,
Restoration & Modernization, Facilities Operation, Demolition, Unaccompanied Housing,
Military Family Housing, Environmental Quality, Expeditionary Combat Support (CBRNE
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                          52


Equipment, Deployment Kits), Air Base Ground Defense, Anti-Terrorism and Force Protection,
Depot Purchased Equipment Maintenance (DPEM), Contract Logistics Support (CLS),
Centralized Asset Management (CAM), Readiness, Second Destination Transportation (SDT),
Energy/Assured Fuels, Vehicles and Support Equipment programs.
14.6.2. Information Management Branch (A4/7RI). Primary interface with Air Staff A7CR,
installations resource advisors, Command program managers, and the funds manager for
Logistics, Installations and Mission Support information and web management.
14.6.2.1. Information Technology Portfolio Management. Tracks and coordinates acquisition of
IT hardware, software, peripherals, data, labor and skills. Analyzes all proposed IT acquisitions
for compliance with information assurance policies, documentation and training requirements,
and duplication of existing IT resources.
14.6.2.2. Information Technology Support. Provides IT expertise to support and guide IT
investment decisions. Provides risk analysis, system integration and vendor interface
considerations.     Verifies system suitability and sustainability, and confirms functional
capabilities within AFSPC network constraints.
14.6.2.3. Installation Geospatial Information and Services (IGI&S) Program Management.
Organizes, trains and equips AFSPC wings to provide fully integrated geospatial development
and distribution capabilities.
14.6.2.4. ACES / IWMS Program Management. Organizes, trains, and equips personnel in the
use and maintenance of the Air Force’s Automated Civil Engineering System (ACES) and
Interim Work Information Management System (IWIMS).
14.6.2.5. Web Management. Coordinates, creates and maintains information and capabilities on
the Air Force Portal.
14.6.3. Force Management Branch (A4/7RM). Primary interface with Air Staff A7CR, field
units, and the Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and Services for Logistics, Installations and
Mission Support manpower and professional development.
14.6.3.1. Manpower Management and Analysis. Reviews Command unit manpower documents
for proper alignment of positions. Coordinates manpower authorization change requests with
Command program managers prior to implementation. Coordinates manpower studies and
analysis.
14.6.3.2. Officer/Enlisted/Civilian Staffing. Human resource focal point for staffing. Liaison to
AF Personnel Center, Civilian Personnel Office, and A1. Identifies requirements, recommends
priorities and allocates resources.
14.6.3.3. Career Field Professional Development. Force development focal point for career field
management and training.
14.6.3.4. Competitive Sourcing. Focal point for competitive sourcing studies. Coordinates new
studies and re-competitions. Manages A76 projects. Quality assurance manager for assistance
and advisory contract services.
14.7. Readiness & Emergency Response/Management Division (A4/7X). Develops and
issues policies, provides policy guidance, evaluates program performance, allocates and
distributes resources, and conducts planning, programming, budgeting and analyses for
Logistics, Installations and Mission Support Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD), Fire
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                           53


Emergency Services (FES), Emergency Management (EM), Readiness and Expeditionary
Combat Support and nuclear response programs.
14.7.1. Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) Branch (A4/7XD). Primary interface with Air
Staff A7CX, AFCESA, and installation EOD managers for EOD training, inspections, processes
and assessments.
14.7.1.1. DOTMLPF. Responsible for all Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel,
Leadership, Personnel and Facilities (DOTMLPF) EOD related issues.
14.7.1.2. EOD Support. Provides EOD support to war fighting CINCs, aerospace launch
platforms, nuclear weapon accidents/incidents, military support to civilian authorities, and force
protection efforts including U.S. Secret Service and Department of State VIP protective support
missions.
14.7.1.3. Self Assessment Program. Develops and implements EOD self assessment processes
utilized during Inspector General (IG) Readiness, Compliance and Nuclear Surety inspections
and staff assistance visits.
14.7.1.4. SORTS. Prepares Designed Operational Capability (DOC) statements and monitors
Status of Resource and Training System (SORTS).
14.7.1.5. Technical Orders. Approves EOD related technical order procedures and initial
operational testing and evaluations when existing data does not provide procedural guidance.
14.7.1.6. FPWG. Coordinates Counter Improvised Explosive Device/Weapons of Mass
Destruction efforts and analyzes potential explosive related threats as a core member of the
AFSPC Force Protection Working Group (FPWG).
14.7.2. Fire Emergency Services (FES) Branch (A4/7XF). Primary interface with Air Staff
A7CX, AFCESA, and installation FES managers for resources, vehicles and training.
14.7.2.1. Resource Allocation Oversight. Performs resource allocation oversight to include
funding, formal training, manpower and fire fighting vehicles.
14.7.2.2. FES Program. Defines MAJCOM training and exercise requirements that support the
Air Force FES program, assists installation Commanders in conducting FES program risk
assessments, and conducts staff assistance visits.
14.7.3. Emergency Management (EM) Branch (A4/7XM). Primary interface with Air Staff
A7CX, AFCESA and installation EM managers for C-CBRNE, and EM training, policy, and
assessment criteria.
14.7.3.1. C-CBRN. Develops, disseminates, and oversees major Command C-CBRN policy and
is the primary interface with Air Staff A7CX, AFCESA/CEX, and installation C-CBRN
managers.
14.7.3.2. AT/FP. Coordinates EM capabilities, to include passive defense, Anti-Terrorism (AT),
Force Protection (FP), Medical and Integrated Base Defense (IBD) policy and guidance.
14.7.3.3. Training. Defines MAJCOM training and exercise requirements for EM program.
14.7.3.4. Assessment Criteria Development. Develops Command CE Readiness and common
core EM assessment criteria along with standardized MAJCOM Inspection checklists utilized
during IG Inspections and EM Program SAVs.
14.7.4. Nuclear Response Branch (A4/7XN). Primary interface with USNORTHCOM, Dept
of Energy (DOE), the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA), Air Staff A7CX, AFCESA,
and      installation leadership for Nuclear-Radiological Incidents, Nuclear Weapon
Accidents/Incidents (NUWAIX) and ICBM Emergency Response events.
14.7.4.1. Program Maintenance Activities. Advocates for funding, coordinates ICBM response
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                           54


issues and establishes maintenance response capabilities to augment the AF Incident
Management System for mitigation of an ICBM Liquid Propulsion incident at any ICBM
operating location.
14.7.4.2. Plans.
14.7.4.2.1. Deployment Plan Development / Integration. Develops deployment plans for ICBM
NUWAIX and ICBM Liquid Propulsion Incident Response program modifications, upgrades,
sustainment efforts.
14.7.4.2.2. AFSPC Plan 10-1. Administers, develops and publishes the ICBM Radiological
Accident/Incident Response and Recovery Plan (AFSPC Plan 10-1) for the Command.
14.7.4.3. Inspections. Develops, writes and publishes inspection guides, checklists, and criteria
for the inspector general (IG) teams for Command Operational Readiness Inspections, Nuclear
Surety Inspections, and Readiness/Compliance Inspections dealing with NUWAIX and ICBM
Liquid Propulsion Incident Response capabilities. Monitors Force Development Evaluations
(FDEs) and determines logistics requirements to sustain required readiness levels.
14.7.4.4. Response Task Force (RTF) Nuclear Weapons Accident / Incident (NUWAIX)
Program.
14.7.4.4.1. Command lead for the AFSPC Response Task Force (RTF) Nuclear Weapons
Accident/Incident Response and ICBM Liquid Propulsion Incident Response capabilities.
Develops and manages AFSPC’s emergency response to prepare for, respond to and recover
from a nuclear or radiological accident involving a nuclear weapon within AFSPC control or
when directed to respond by USNORTHCOM or the National Military Command Center
(NMCC).
14.7.4.4.2. Provides information to all planning agencies regarding Command RTF availability,
compatibility and capability. Executes Command actions required to required to participate in
and support national and regional area response plans and exercises.
14.7.4.4.3. Reviews and authors directives detailing NUWAIX response and RTF operations and
requirements, and chairs and leads Command-wide HQ NUWAIX working group.
14.7.4.4.4. Develops and implements programs to improve nuclear weapons accident/incident
(NUWAIX) response readiness, safety, reliability, maintainability and sustainability.
14.7.4.4.5. Evaluates and executes timely logistics supportability and configuration control
associated with programmatic changes to ICBM NUWAIX response. Participates in and
supports national and regional area response plans and exercises.
14.7.4.4.6. Manages the AFSPC RTF NUWAIX response capabilities from cradle to grave.
14.7.4.5. Training. Provides input regarding standards to Defense Nuclear Weapon School
(DNWS), the DTRA and AETC.
14.7.4.6. Policy.
14.7.4.6.1. Monitors and evaluates Federal and DoD policy on emergency response and CBRNE
activities.
14.7.4.6.2. Oversees ICBM Potential Hazard System policy for Missile Potential Hazard
triggers.
14.7.4.6.3. Establishes policy, identifies responsibilities, and outlines procedures for Minuteman
Propulsion System Rocket Engine (PSRE) Hazardous Materials Response Plan (HMRP) and the
Command Response Task Force (RTF).
14.7.5. Readiness & Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS) Branch (A4/7XZ). Primary
interface with Air Staff A7CX, AFCESA and installation program managers for Prime BEEF,
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                      55


ECS and Readiness training. Responsible for operational and deployment planning and garrison
support.
14.8. Asset Management Division (A7A). Develops and issues policies, provides policy
guidance, evaluates program performance, allocates and distributes resources, and conducts
planning, programming, budgeting and analyses for housing, natural and built assets and
environmental programs.
14.8.1. Built Assets Branch (A7AB). Primary interface with Air Staff A7CA, component
NAF/A7, and installation CE Squadron asset managers.
14.8.1.1. Government-Owned Military Family Housing (MFH) and General Officer Quarters
(GOQ). Provides professional guidance; develops policy and plans, programs, and budgets and
allocates resources to maintain Military Family Housing (including GOQs) in accordance with
applicable Air Force guidance and statutory funding limitations.
14.8.1.2. Privatized Housing Operation and Management. Provides professional guidance and
develops oversight of privatized housing operations in accordance with applicable Air Force
guidance, project transaction documents and statutory funding limitations.
14.8.1.3. Unaccompanied Housing Management. Provides professional guidance; develops
policy; and plans, programs, and budgets and allocates resources to maintain Unaccompanied
Housing in accordance with applicable Air Force guidance and statutory funding limitations.
14.8.1.4. GOQ and Dormitory Furnishings Management. Provides professional guidance and
develops policy for all aspects of housing and dormitory furnishings management including
funding oversight and allowances for furnishings.
14.8.1.5. Real Property Management. Provides professional guidance and develops policy for
real property accounting.
14.8.1.6. Real Estate Management. Provides professional guidance and management of
AFSPC’s real estate program to including: commercial space launch support, land acquisition,
outgrants and leases, and facility or real estate disposal actions.
14.8.2. Integration and Business Development Branch (A7AI). Primary interface with Air
Staff A7CA, AFRPA, AFCEE, and installation CE Squadron asset managers in the
developmental phases of public-private business transactions.
14.8.2.1. Privatized Housing Acquisition. Provides professional guidance and management of
AFSPC’s housing privatization projects, including AFCEE coordination, from definition to Air
Force Executive Steering Group and OSD approval to Congressional notification and final
Project Owner approval to deal closure and completion of initial development phases (IDP).
14.8.2.2. Enhanced Use Leases. Provides professional guidance and management of AFSPC’s
Enhanced Use Lease initiatives, including AFRPA coordination, from definition to Air Force
Executive Steering Group and SAF/IEI approval to Congressional notification, final lease
approval and completion of specific lease provisions.
14.8.3. Natural Assets (A7AN). Primary interface with Air Staff A7CA, component NAF and
installation CE Squadron program managers for natural infrastructure management issues.
14.8.3.1. Natural and Cultural Resource Management. Provides professional guidance and
develops policy, plans, programs, and budgets and allocates resources for compliance with all
Federal, State and local laws and regulations.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                          56


14.8.3.2. Environmental Baseline Survey (EBS). Provides professional guidance and develops
policy, plans, programs, budgets and allocates resources for EBSs.
14.8.3.3. Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution (PPBE). Davison lead for the
PPBE process.
14.8.3.4. Pest Management. Provides professional guidance and develops policy plans,
programs, budgets and allocates resources to maintain compliance with all Federal, State and
local laws and regulations. Oversees the Pest Management Program, to include certification of
all Command pest applicators, review and approve of all pest management plans, and approval of
new pesticides and herbicides.
14.8.3.5. Natural Infrastructure Management. Provides professional guidance and develops
policy plans, programs, budgets and allocates resources for the Natural Infrastructure
Management Program to include oversight of the Natural Infrastructure Assessment Process.
14.8.3.6. Environmental Management. Provides professional guidance and develops policy and
provides oversight of implementation of Environmental Management System (EMS) throughout
AFSPC.
14.8.3.7. Foreign Country Programs. Provides professional guidance and develops policy,
plans, programs budgets and allocates resources to maintain compliance with Final Governing
Standards at all overseas locations. Develops Final Governing Standards for Greenland,
Ascension Island and Antigua.
14.8.4. Environmental Quality (A7AQ). Primary interface with Air Staff A7CA, component
NAF, and installation CE Squadron program managers for environmental quality issues.
14.8.4.1. Hazardous Material Emergency Planning and Response Compliance. Provides
professional guidance and develops policy, plans, programs, budgets and allocates resources to
maintain compliance with federal, state, local, host nations, DoD and environmental and natural
resource laws, regulations, directives and policies regarding Hazardous Material Emergency
Planning and Response Compliance.
14.8.4.2. Air Quality Compliance. Provides professional guidance and develops policy, plans,
programs, budgets and allocates resources to maintain compliance with federal, state, local, host
nation, DoD and environmental and natural resource laws, regulations, directives and policies to
maintain and improve air quality.
14.8.4.3. Water Quality Compliance. Provides professional guidance and develops policy,
plans, programs, budgets and allocates resources to maintain compliance with federal, state,
local, host nation, DoD and environmental and natural resource laws, regulations, directives and
policies to maintain and improve water quality.
14.8.4.4. Toxic Substances Compliance. Provides professional guidance and develops policy,
plans, programs, budgets and allocates resources to maintain compliance with federal, state,
local, host nation, DoD and environmental and natural resource laws, regulations, directives and
policies for Lead, Asbestos, Radon and Polychlorinated Biphenyl’s.
14.8.4.5. Storage Tank and POL Compliance. Provides professional guidance and develops
policy, plans, programs, budgets and allocates resources to maintain compliance with federal,
state, local, host nation, DoD and environmental and natural resource laws, regulations,
directives and policies for Storage Tank and POL Compliance.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                           57


14.8.4.6. Environmental Compliance Assessment and Management Program (ECAMP).
Provides professional guidance and develops policy, plans, programs, budgets and allocates
resources to conduct environmental compliance reviews in accordance with the Environmental
Compliance Assessment and Management Program.
14.8.4.7. Compliance Tracking and Reporting. Provides professional guidance and develops
policy, plans, programs, budgets and allocates resources to administer Compliance Tracking and
Reporting Program.
14.8.4.8. Pollution Prevention Program. Provides professional guidance and develops policy,
plans, programs, budgets and allocates resources for the management of processes, practices,
materials, or products that avoid, reduce, or control pollution, which may include recycling,
treatment, process changes, control mechanisms, efficient use of resources, and material
substitution.
14.8.4.9. Hazardous Material (HAZMAT) Program. Provides professional guidance and
develops policy, plans, programs, budgets and allocates resources for management of the
procurement and use of HAZMAT to support Air Force missions, ensure the safety and health of
personnel and surrounding communities, and minimize Air Force dependence on HAZMAT.
14.8.4.10. Solid and Hazardous Waste Compliance Programs. Provides professional guidance
and develops policy, plans, programs, budgets and allocates resources for solid and hazardous
waste characterization, training, accumulation, minimization, and disposal.
14.9. Contracting Division (A7K). Develops and issues policies, provides policy guidance,
evaluates program performance, allocates and distributes resources and conducts planning,
programming, budgeting and analyses for all Command contracting activities.
14.9.1. Contract Advisor. Principal Contracting advisor to AFSPC/CC, in support of NORAD
and USNORTHCOM worldwide missions. Responsible for all AFSPC contracting activities in
support of operations and maintenance of missile warning, space surveillance, satellite control
and space launch operations sites including competitive sourcing and privatization initiatives,
acquisition strategies, and business and contract clearances.
14.9.2. Head of the Contracting Activity (HCA). Performs functions required by the Federal
Acquisition Regulation and as Command Competition and Commercial Advocate.
14.9.3. Competitive Sourcing and Privatization. Develops policies, plans and establishes
procedures for all AFSPC competitive sourcing and privatization initiatives. Reviews and
approves acquisition strategies and performs business and contract clearances.
14.9.4. Small Business Program. Directs small business programs for the Command and
provides socio-economic program policy and guidance to all AFSPC contracting activities and
Small Business Specialists. Deploys, maintains, and monitors management information systems
necessary to support acquisition and contracting activities and reporting capabilities.
14.10. Operations Division (A7O). Develops and issues policies, provides policy guidance,
evaluates program performance, allocates and distributes resources and conducts planning,
programming, budgeting and analyses for Civil Engineering Squadron Operations Flights and
Asset Management Flights for infrastructure, utility privatization, and facility operations.
14.10.1. Infrastructure Branch (A7OI). Primary interface with Air Staff A7CA and
installation CE Squadron operations flights.
14.10.1.1. Infrastructure Management. Provides infrastructure management policy, guidance,
standards and technical project review for civil, electrical, and mechanical specialties including
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                              58


water, sewage, and treatment system operations, contracts, maintenance and modifications.
Responsible for performing the Command Infrastructure Condition Assessment Program (ICAP).
14.10.1.1.1. Provides policy and guidance for critical utility reporting, the Critical Infrastructure
Program, base airfield pavement infrastructure programs, roofing program, refrigerant program,
boiler inspection program, fire alarm and fire suppression system installation, railroad track
infrastructure, the AF seismic program and structural systems, traffic engineering, protective
coating and corrosion control, the DESC fuels project program, and the demolition program.
14.10.1.2. PCCIE. Serves as the focal point and subject matter expert for all AFSPC Power
Conditioning and Continuation Interfacing Equipment (PCCIE) issues.
14.10.1.3. UPS. Provides oversight for all requirements regarding the acquisition, installation,
maintenance, and repair support of AFSPC’s Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) systems
worldwide.
14.10.2. Utilities Privatization Branch (A7OP). Primary interface with Air Staff A7CA, and
installation CE Squadron program managers for utility privatization (UP) issues. Responsible
for conducting UP studies of all AFSPC utility systems as candidates for privatization, including
market analysis, inventories, and Government Cost Estimates.
14.10.3. Operations Support Branch (A7OS). Primary interface with Air Staff A7CA,
component NAF/A7, and installation CE Squadron program managers for facility operations
issues. Responsible for the Facilities Operation (FO) program including “municipal-like”
functions performed on an installation that are directly related to real property as well as Civil
Engineer combat capabilities.
14.10.3.1. FO Program Element Monitor. Responsible for validating and advocating for FO
requirements in all phases of the Corporate Programming Process.
14.10.3.2. Acquisition. Responsible for utilities acquisition and management including contract
review, reporting and calculation.
14.10.3.3. Policy and Guidance. Provides policy and guidance for the Energy Program; the
Self-Help Program; CE work management systems and controls; logistics, material storage and
distribution management; materiel acquisition, including the Civil Engineering Material
Acquisition System (CEMAS); vehicle management and control programs; and snow and ice
control/removal.
14.11. Security Forces Division (A7S). Develops and issues policies, provides policy
guidance, evaluates program performance, allocates and distributes resources and conducts
planning, programming, budgeting and analyses for security programs for
NORAD/NORTHCOM and AFSPC for countermeasures and security operations.
14.11.1.      Countermeasures Branch (A7SC).               Primary interface with SAF/AAP,
NORAD/NORTHCOM and installation SF Squadrons for industrial, contract, and information
security.
14.11.1.1. Industrial Security Program Management. Responsible for all aspects of the
Industrial Security Program for AFSPC installations and associated NORAD/NORTHCOM
units.
14.11.1.2. Classified Contracts. Responsible for DoD Contract Security Classification
Specification, technical reviews, and Long Term Security Agreements.
14.11.1.3. Information Security Program Management. Responsible for management and
review for all AFSPC Installations, and associated NORAD/NORTHCOM units.
14.11.1.4. Publications. Responsible for System Protection Guides.
14.11.1.5.     Training.  Responsible for security education and training materials for
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                       59


NORAD/NORTHCOM and AFSPC.
14.11.1.6. Security Classification Management. Provides Original Classification Authority
oversight, Security Classification Guide Reviews, and Mandatory Declassification Reviews.
14.11.1.7. NC2-ESI. Air Force executive agent for safeguarding the Nuclear Command and
Control-Extremely Sensitive Information (NC2-ESI) and OPR for AFI 10-1102, Safeguarding
the Single Integrated Operational Plan (SIOP).
14.11.2. Security Forces Operations Branch (A7SO). Primary interface with Air Staff A7SO,
NORAD/NORTHCOM and installation SF Squadrons for security operations and systems.
14.11.2.1. Policy and Guidance. Provides policy and guidance for Law Enforcement, Nuclear
Surety and Nuclear Security, Space Systems Security, Combat Arms programs, Force Protection,
Military Working Dog (MWD) Program, AFSPC Anti-terrorism Program, Vulnerability
Assessments and System Operational Protection.
14.11.2.2. Certifications. Provides security systems certifications.
14.11.2.3. Confinement. Oversees Confinement operations in AFSPC and coordinates on
prisoner transfers.
14.11.3. Programs and Resources Branch (A7SX). Primary interface with Air Staff A7SX,
NORAD/NORTHCOM and installation SF Squadrons for security programs, resources, and
training.
14.11.3.1. Requirements and Capabilities. Responsible for future requirements and capabilities
identification, planning, programming, and budgeting for the Division.
14.11.3.2. Equipment Management. Responsible for Equipment Distribution Schedules and
equipment accountability.
14.11.3.3. Personnel Management. Responsible for UTC Logistics Force Detail, Personnel
Security Program Management and review for all AFSPC Installations and associated
NORAD/NORTHCOM units, contingency operations and deployment, and the Air Reserve
component.
14.11.3.4. Plans. Develops Security Forces Operations Plans, war plans, UTC oversight,
SORTS, DOCs and AEF.
14.11.3.5. JPAS. AFSPC Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) technical authority and
Primary Account Manager with oversight authority.
14.11.3.6. NATO Security Program. Responsible for the management of the NATO Security
Program for all AFSPC Installations, and associated NORAD/NORTHCOM units.
14.11.3.7. Training. Training manager for formal, nuclear, space, readiness and predeployment
training.
14.12. CAASETA PMO (A7Z). Primary interface between customers, contracting officer(s)
and prime contractors on the Contract Advisory and Assistance Services, Engineering and
Technical Assistance (CAASETA) contract through which all Advisory and Assistance Services
(A&AS) are acquired.
14.12.1. Centralized Management. Responsible for policy development, process definition,
template development, training, program evaluation, and maintenance of the master task order
schedule and consistent and legally compliant task order process implementation for CAASETA
contract.
14.13. Missile Engineer Squadron (MES). Develops and issues policies, provides policy
guidance, evaluates program performance, allocates and distributes resources and conducts
planning, programming, budgeting and analyses for ICBM operations.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                     60


14.13.1. Missile Engineer Systems Integration Branch (MESI). Primary interface between
AFSPC and Installation Missile Engineering Flights for ICBM facilities infrastructure.
14.13.1.1. Real Property (RP) and Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE) Sustainment.
Responsible for planning, programming and management of RP and RPIE for all ICBM
facilities infrastructure including concept integration and modification management for life
extension, sustainment and modernization projects.
14.13.1.2. DAR Program. Manages the Defense Access Roads program for the ICBM fleet.
14.13.2. Missile Engineer Electrical Systems Branch (MESE) and Missile Engineer
Mechanical Systems Branch (MESM). Primary interface between AFSPC and Installation
Missile Engineering Flights for ICBM mechanical and electrical systems.
14.13.2.1. System Engineering Support. Provides electrical and mechanical system engineering
support and guidance for ICBM RP and RPIE and evaluates ICBM RP and RPIE Engineering
Change Requests and proposed modifications.
14.13.2.2. Civil Engineering Systems Manuals. Reviews and updates Civil Engineer System
Manuals, Equipment Manuals, Inspection Manuals, Master Change Logs and associated
drawings to reflect approved alterations to RP, RPIE and Aerospace Ground Equipment
interface.
14.13.2.3. System Repair. Develops repair procedures for sustainment and repair of MMIII RP
and RPIE.
14.13.2.4. System Life Expectancy. Conducts studies and condition assessments of existing
infrastructure to determine system condition and life expectancy.
14.13.2.5. FCIR. Conducts engineering analysis of all Facility Change Initiation Requests
(FCIR) and provides recommendations and coordinates on processed FCIRs at the Missile
Facility Alteration Panel.
14.13.2.6. Electronics Laboratory. MESE manages an electronics laboratory providing depot
level repair capabilities for MMIII RP and RPIE weapon system components including
Minuteman Power Processors, Remote Start Units, and Missile Interior Intrusion Detection
Systems.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         61


                                          Chapter 15
                DIRECTORATE OF PLANS AND REQUIREMENTS (A5)

15.1. Directorate of Plans and Requirements (A5). Provides warfighting capabilities for
presentation to combatant commanders in the USSTRATCOM-assigned mission areas of space
support, space control, force enhancement and force application. Develops, documents, and
staffs space and missile requirements documents in support of the Joint Capabilities Integration
and Development System (JCIDS) supporting DoD, civil, and national users. Ensures
requirements are properly vetted within AFSPC as Chair of the AFSPC group and board for
requirements. Facilitates requirements validation through the AF and Joint staff processes by
providing warfighter-linked justification at each major DoD decision point. Coordinates with
SMC/XR for development and preparation of Analysis of Alternatives (AoAs) and concept
studies. Converts concepts to reality by providing operational input on all space and missile
acquisition programs throughout the acquisition process. Provides representation to design
analysis and technical reviews for all systems in development. Collaborates with AFMC and
other agencies worldwide in development and initial introduction of new, improved, aerospace
systems and equipment into operational units. Acts as the space and missile focal point with
industry, NASA, AFOTEC, AFMC, other MAJCOMs, Joint Staff, OSD, Intelligence
Community, and other services. Recommends modifications to existing weapon systems and
support infrastructure to achieve validated operational requirements through technology
insertion. Documents the architectures and modeling and simulation required for the capability's
acquisition, operations, test, training, and sustainment.
15.2. Space Situational Awareness & C2 Division (A5C). HQ AFSPC Command Lead to
determine, document, and represent requirements to assure our (friendly) use of space and deny
that medium to the enemy. Responsible for requirements definition, integration, program
funding advocacy and acquisition oversight of new and modified Space Situational Awareness
(SSA) and C2 systems. Coordinates requirements with Air Staff, MAJCOMs, Unified Agencies,
USSTRATCOM, NORTHCOM, DARPA, NRO, SMC and ESC to ensure the President, SecDef
and Combatant Commanders (COCOMs) demands will be met in an accurate and timely manner.
Determines, documents and represents SSA & C2 mission area operational requirements.
Develops, coordinates and submits requirements through the Air Force Requirements for
Operational Capabilities Council (AFROCC) and Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC)
via the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) and functions as the
command lead for programs until transitioned to current operations management. In addition,
the division continues to function as the Program Element Monitor for program acquisition funds
and O&M funds until programs are transitioned to current operations.
15.2.1. Architectures and Integration Branch (A5CI). A5CI conducts requirements and
architecture analysis in cooperation with Space and Missile Systems Center and Electronic
Systems Center to determine the best value architectures to deliver SSA and C2 capabilities to
meet the full range of National Security Space requirements. In addition, they participate in
National Security Space Program Assessments, manage SSA program elements for HQ AFSPC,
and maintain the National SSA Roadmap and Interim SSA Architecture.
15.2.2. Space Situational Awareness and Command and Control Systems Branch (A5CN).
A5CN manages programs that deliver SSA and C2 capabilities to meet JFCC SPACE mission
needs. Programs include Integrated Space Situational Awareness (ISSA), Space C2, and the
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                          62


Rapid Attack Identification Detection Reporting System (RAIDRS). In addition, A5CN is
responsible for the systems that support the NORAD/USSTRATCOM Integrated Tactical
Warning and Attack Assessment (ITW/AA) missions (Air Warning & Battle Management,
Missile Warning, Space Surveillance/Warning, core ITW/AA C2) and the Combatant
Commander's Integrated C2 System (CCIC2S).
15.2.3 Space Situational Awareness Sensors Branch (A5CS). A5CS manages programs that
deliver modernized space surveillance sensor capability. Some of the current programs they
manage are Space Based Surveillance System (SBSS), Eglin radar modernization, Haystack
Ultra-wideband Satellite Imaging Radar (HUSIR), Space Fence, and the Space Surveillance
Telescope (SST).
15.3 Space Protection and IO Requirements Division (A5D). A5D manages requirement
development for programs that deliver space protection and IO capabilities as well as science and
technology to support these programs.
15.3.1. Space Protection and IO Program (A5DP). A5DP manages requirement development
for programs delivering space protection and IO effects.
15.3.2. Space Protection and IO Technology (A5DZ). A5DZ develops relevant space
protection and IO technology for future mission area platforms.
15.4. Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Division (A5F). AFSPC’s focal point
for the definition, development, and advocacy of the family of global space-based infrared
systems (Space Based Infrared System (SBIRS), 3rd Generation Infrared Surveillance (3GIRS),
and Space Tracking and Surveillance System (STSS), Nuclear Detection System (NDS),
National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS), Tier II electro-
optical and radar systems, and multi-mission radars providing critical missile warning, missile
defense, technical intelligence, and battlespace awareness.
15.4.1. Space Radar Branch (A5FR). Conducts development, validation, and coordination of
overhead surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities-based operational requirements and
technical inputs to support the acquisition and fielding of the space-based surveillance and
reconnaissance systems within the context of Department of Defense (DoD) and Air Force (AF)
processes (e.g., Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS)). Develops and
obtains approval of Initial Capabilities Documents (ICDs); Capability Development Documents
(CDDs); Capability Production Documents (CPDs). Integrates these requirements with strategic
planning, program planning, system acquisition and budget execution functions of HQ AFSPC.
Ensures the AF acquires a suitable, effective and affordable space-based surveillance and
reconnaissance systems to meet the validated global ISR needs of DoD, National Intelligence
and Civil users.
15.4.2. Space Based Sensors Branch (A5FS). Responsible for the development and execution
of operational requirements for Overhead Non-Imaging Infrared (ONIR) systems. Leads the
development and modernization of the Space-Based Infrared System (SBIRS) program to ensure
successful transition for SBIRS Increment 1 to Block 10 and follow-on operations (Block 20).
Responsible for Nuclear Detection System (NDS) future requirements. Leads the development
and modernization of the National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System
program to ensure successful transition for Defense Meteorological Satellite Program DMSP
capabilities to NPOESS and follow-on operations. Develops requirements documents for
follow-on Environmental programs, satellite sensed environmental (atmosphere, land, space
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                          63


environment, ocean, and climate) data for military users world wide. Also responsible for
developing requirements documents for all follow-on ONIR programs, identifying Joint,
Intelligence Community (IC), MDA, and Service requirements for Missile Warning (MW),
Missile Defense (MD), Technical Intelligence (TI), and Battlespace Awareness (BA) missions.
Sponsors all AFSPC capabilities-based requirements and capabilities, including development of
capabilities documents for requirements needed to accomplish the AFSPC Ballistic Missile
Defense System (BMDS) mission. Conducts development and validation of capabilities-based
operational requirements within the context of Department of Defense (DoD) and Air Force (AF)
processes (e.g., Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS)). Develop and
obtain approval of Initial Capabilities Documents (ICDs); Capability Development Documents
(CDDs) and Capability Production Documents (CPDs).
15.4.3. Ground-based Warning Branch (A5FG). Sponsors all AFSPC capabilities-based
requirements and capabilities, including development of capabilities documents for requirements
needed to accomplish the AFSPC Ballistic Missile Defense System (BMDS) mission. Conducts
development and validation of capabilities-based operational requirements within the context of
Department of Defense (DoD) and Air Force (AF) processes (e.g., Joint Capabilities Integration
and Development System (JCIDS)). Develops and obtains approval of Initial Capabilities
Documents (ICDs); Capability Development Documents (CDDs); Capability Production
Documents (CPDs); doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education,
personnel, and facilities (DOTMLPF) Change Recommendations (DCRs) and related documents.
Performs user requirements and capabilities analysis, funding advocacy, acquisition oversight,
and integration management of AFSPC operational capabilities in support of the Global Ballistic
Missile Defense System (BMDS). Defines, develops, and directs AFSPC's Ground-Based
Midcourse Defense (GMD), Upgraded Early Warning Radar (UEWR) and European Midcourse
Radar (EMR) efforts with Combatant Commands, Services, the Missile Defense Agency, and
European allies. Determines capability gaps and determines materiel and non-materiel
(DOTMLPF) domains for implementation. Establishes a Command Lead (CL), Requirements
Lead (RL) and Program Element Monitor (PEM) and involve sother Directorates in matters of
acquisition, sustainment, operational use, testing, training, and interoperability of the BMDS to
meet warfighter needs. AFSPC focal point for the transition of Space Tracking and Surveillance
System (STSS) from MDA, integrating the system into the existing ONIR architecture, as well as
AFSPC’s Integrated Sensing roadmap and architecture.
15.5. Military Satellite Communications (MILSATCOM) Division (A5M). AFSPC focal
point for development, documentation and validation of operational requirements for Protected
and Wideband space-based communication capabilities for joint, allied, coalition and
international partners. Develops and maintains operational architectures to provide integrated
and interoperable system capabilities. Develops system solutions to provide warfighting
capabilities that deliver desired effects for Combatant Commands. Establishes needs for
advanced technology research and development to satisfy future operational requirements.
Plans, programs, and budgets resources to deliver optimum solutions within cost and schedule.
Provides management oversight to and facilitates activities among procurement agencies and
operational units to ensure successful delivery and operational acceptance of new capabilities.
Performs Functional Needs Analysis (FNA) and Functional Solutions Analysis (FSA) for
MILSATCOM programs as required. Prepares and submits JCIDS documents to establish new
MILSATCOM capabilities through the acquisition process. Our objective is to provide Initial
Capabilities Documents (ICD), Capability Development Documents (CDD), and Capability
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                             64


Production Documents (CPD) within the framework of joint concepts and integrated
architectures that properly reflect capability shortfalls and technological opportunities for
MILSATCOM systems, including operational support equipment, associated maintenance
support equipment, training systems and communication subsystems.                   Capabilities for
International Partners, and allied and coalition considerations, will also be included in these same
documents as appropriate.
15.5.1. Protected MILSATCOM Branch (A5MP). The branch functions as the Requirements
Lead for all Protected MILSATCOM programs that provide protected (nuclear protected, anti-
jam, Low Probability of Detection/Intercept/Exploitation LPD/I/E, etc.) space-based
communications capabilities for joint, allied, coalition and international partners. The branch is
also the Requirements Lead for the AF Protected MILSATCOM terminal capabilities to utilize
the satellite capabilities. The branch executes USSTRATCOM-directed “SATCOM System
Expert” (SSE) responsibilities prior to system Initial Operational Capability (IOC), including
broad oversight of all DoD “protected” SATCOM and specific system-level responsibility for
protected satellite systems in development. The branch also advocates for program acquisition
funds within the AFSPC Corporate process until programs are transitioned to current operations.
15.5.2. Wideband MILSATCOM Branch (A5MW). The branch functions as the
Requirements Lead for all Wideband MILSATCOM programs that provide wideband space-
based communications capabilities for joint, allied, coalition and international partners as well as
all MILSATCOM systems which utilize the consolidated command and control system and for
all AF Multiband MILSATCOM terminals. The branch also monitors the development of
Narrowband MILSATCOM which is the responsibility of the Navy. A5MW maintains the Joint
Satellite Data Base for the Air Force. The branch also advocates for program acquisition funds
within the AFSPC Corporate process until programs are transitioned to current operations.
15.6. Deterrence and Strike Division (A5N). AFSPC focal point for the definition,
development, and advocacy of future space force application and ballistic missile defense
operational requirements to meet Air Force, USSTRATCOM, DoD, Missile Defense Agency,
and national objectives. Provides Command Leads to manage operational user involvement in
the requirements generation and acquisition processes for future space force applications
concepts, addressing nuclear and conventional strike, as well as life extension efforts for the
Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) system. Provides Command Leads who develop,
prepare, and monitor applicable Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
documents and activities (e.g., Initial Capabilities Documents, Analysis of Alternatives, High
Performance Teams, etc.). Monitors AFMC’s development and sustainment efforts for ballistic
missile systems and components and technology development efforts associated with future
space force applications. Actively participates in planning for deployment of future missile
systems and life extension efforts for current missile systems. Assesses the impact of the threat,
technology, funding, and arms control treaties on the requirements generation and acquisition
processes and warfighter needs.
15.6.1. Future Concepts Branch (A5NF). Defines, develops, and advocates operational
requirements for future space force applications programs. These Command Leads serve as the
AFSPC single point of contact for each of the following programs and/or initiatives: Land Based
Strategic Deterrent, Prompt Global Strike, Conventional Strike Missile, Rocket Systems Launch
Program, ICBM Demonstration/Validation Programs (Guidance Applications, Propulsion
Application, Reentry Vehicle Application, Command and Control Application), and Long-Range
Requirements Planning. Inserts future concepts into Air Force war gaming activities. Monitors
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                           65


ballistic missile technology and other AFRL technology development efforts for potential use by
Minuteman life extension programs and future space force applications systems. Co-chairs the
ICBM Long-range Requirements Planning (ILRP) working group and serves as the command
focal point for the ILRP process, which develops the ICBM Weapon Systems Master Plan and its
associated Reports. Member of the Technology for the Sustainment of Strategic Systems OSD-
level Integrated Product Team and represents A5N in the Space and Missile Center technical
planning process. Participates extensively in the Command’s Integrated Planning Process to
ensure requirements will provide systems that are responsive to all taskings assigned in the space
force applications mission areas, AFSPC Strategic Master Plan, and Air Force, USSTRATCOM,
DoD, and national-level directives.
15.6.2. ICBM Modernization Branch (A5NM). Defines, develops, and advocates operational
requirements for ballistic missile systems, including the Minuteman III ICBM, launch control
centers, operational support equipment, associated maintenance support equipment, training
systems, and strategic connectivity/communication systems. Command advocate for ballistic
missile system aerospace vehicle equipment (AVE) requirements, including the propulsion sub-
systems and associated maintenance support equipment. Provides Requirements Leads who
serve as the AFSPC single points of contact for current and future ICBM modernization
programs:       Current programs include:          Minuteman Minimum Essential Emergency
Communications Network Upgrade, ICBM Cryptography Upgrade, ICBM Security
Modernization (including Remote Visual Assessment and Fast Rising B-Plug), Environmental
Control System Replacement, and the Common Vertical Lift Support Platform
15.7. Positioning, Navigation and Timing (PNT) Division (A5P). Command Lead for PNT.
AFSPC focal point for development, documentation, validation and advocacy of operational
capability requirements for space-based PNT capabilities for US military, allied, coalition and
international partners, and civil users. Develops and maintains operational architectures to
provide integrated and interoperable system capabilities. Develops system solutions to provide
warfighting capabilities that deliver desired effects for Combatant Commands. Establishes needs
for advanced technology research and development to satisfy future operational requirements.
Plans, programs, and budgets resources to deliver optimum solutions within cost and schedule.
Provides management oversight to and facilitates activities among procurement agencies and
operational units to ensure successful delivery and operational acceptance of new capabilities.
15.7.1. Systems Branch (A5PS). AFSPC focal point for the development, documentation and
validation of operational capability requirements for US military, allied, coalition and
international partners, and civil users for space-based PNT systems, including operational
support equipment, associated maintenance support equipment, training systems, and
communications sub-systems. Prepares and coordinates Joint Capabilities Integration and
Development System (JCIDS) capability documents. Develops PNT system solutions to provide
warfighting capabilities that deliver desired effects to Combatant Commanders as well as ensures
PNT capability for US civil departments. Develops and maintains an operational architecture for
space and control segments to provide integrated and interoperable system capabilities.
Establishes need for technology research to satisfy future requirements. Plans, programs, and
budgets resources to deliver optimum solutions within cost and schedule.
15.7.2. Services Branch (A5PG). AFSPC focal point for the development and documentation
of PNT services. Lead office for GPS Community of Interest (COI). Responsible for obtaining
and documenting the needs for Military GPS User Equipment. Responsible for development of
Enabling Concepts and Operating Concepts IAW AFSPCI 10-102. Primary interface with
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                       66


external PNT groups and organizations including the Interagency Forum for Operational
Requirements and the Independent Review Team. Works with developers, operators, and the
test community to ensure validated requirements are correctly deployed. Member of the
Training Planning Team, Transition Working Group, and other working groups as needed.
15.8. Launch, Range and Networks (A5R). Responsible for operational capability
requirements development and oversight for development, acquisition and fielding of new
AFSPC spacelift, launch range, and satellite control network capabilities.
15.8.1. Satellite Command and Control Branch (A5RC). Responsible for Air Force Satellite
Control Network (AFSCN) operational requirements development/evolution and provide satellite
operations (SATOPS) expertise for architecture planning and evaluation:
15.8.1.1. Provides AFSPC oversight for development, acquisition and fielding of new AFSCN
capabilities. Develops/document sAFSCN operational capability requirements. Validates
new/modified operational capability requirements during development phase.          Ensures
correlation between operations capability requirements documents and system requirements
documents meets operator's needs.

15.8.1.2. Reviews, validates, and prioritizes AFSCN deficiencies or proposed enhancements
submitted by operators, maintainers, sustainers, and/or network users.

15.8.1.3. Provides PEMs for AFSCN development efforts. Provides expert knowledge for
AFSCN program justifications, inquiries, studies and advocacy. Conducts planning and
programming activities for financial resources necessary to improve, develop, and
produce/deliver AFSCN systems/subsystems.       Prioritizes and approves SMC-provided
improvements and modernization and sustainment projects.         Provides priorities for
implementation projects to SMC and the Air Staff along with the annual APOM/POM
submission.

15.8.1.4. Supports user programs in defining AFSCN support requirements via the Universal
Documentation System and Requirements Validation Board processes. Supports development,
documentation, and validation of AFSCN support requirements for assigned missions.

15.8.1.5. Articulates needs for advanced technology research and development to satisfy future
SATOPS operational requirements.        Defines and supports technology and operational
demonstrations and support assessments for operational confidence using Space Development
and Test Wing and Space Innovation and Development Center resources, as appropriate.
Recommends modifications to achieve validated operational capability requirements through
technology insertion.

15.8.1.6. Evaluates assessed threats against and identifies vulnerabilities of the AFSCN to
respond to capability gaps. Notifies Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
Agency (AF ISR Agency) of operational requirements changes, concept of operations changes,
major system upgrades, modifications, and new system developments that require vulnerability
assessments (information protection, electronic warfare, threat, etc.) for the AFSCN. Provides
data upon request from AF ISR Agency organizations, in support of AFSCN threat and
vulnerability analyses.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                              67


15.8.1.7. Provides Satellite Operations (SATOPS) expertise/support to Space Support Command
Lead; for HQ AFSPC Integrated Planning Process; and for USSTRATCOM and National
Security Space SATOPS program assessments.
15.8.2. Spacelift and Range Requirements Branch (A5RL). Responsible for all operational
capability requirements for the spacelift and launch range programs and activities. Provides
oversight for development, acquisition, fielding, sustainment, and disposition of new spacelift
and launch and test range capabilities.
15.8.2.1.     Defines operational capability requirements for spacelift and launch range
modernization programs.
15.8.2.2. Ensures research, development and acquisition of spacelift and launch and test range
systems meet AFSPC requirements.
15.8.2.3. AFSPC interface with national, DOD, civil, and commercial agencies on spacelift and
launch and test range requirement issues.
15.8.2.4. Conducts requirement analysis, program funding advocacy and acquisitions oversight
of launch range modernization and improvement programs.
15.8.2.5. Co-lead launch range architecture development activities with SMC’s Launch Range
Systems Wing (LRSW)
15.8.2.6. Identifies and documents requirements, sponsors military utility analyses, provides
program funding advocacy and acquisition oversight for the nation's future spacelift systems and
capabilities.
15.9. Operationally Responsive Space Division (A5V). AFSPC CL for ORS. The
Operationally Responsive Space Division (A5V) is responsible for developing, defining,
interpreting, translating, and documenting capability-based service requirements to assure space
power focused on timely satisfaction of Joint Force Commander’s needs. The division is
dedicated to serving the needs of the joint force commander and integrates with the ORS
Enterprise, to include the Air Force, Army, Navy, Marine Corps, DARPA, DDR&E, NRO,
NSSO, NSA, NGA, NASA, USSTRATCOM, ORS Office, and other national and DoD agencies.
Provides a dramatic and fresh review of our current doctrine, organization, training, materiel,
leadership, personnel and facilities as they apply to meeting responsive timelines. Generates
necessary support for requirements focused to increase warfighting capabilities and reduce the
associated cost and time required. Obtains ORS operational requirements document approval
(AFROCC, JROC), via the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS)
process. Documents and advocates for ORS funding needs through the planning, programming,
budgeting, and execution process (PPBE). Works and manages the AF ORS PE in conjunction
with SAF/USAL and the ORS Office. Remains abreast of science and technology developments,
and updates science and technology roadmaps along with the long-range integrated planning
process. Informs leadership as needed or requested on areas of responsibility.
15.9.1 Launch Vehicle Branch (A5VL). Defines and develops requirements to implement
consistent, disciplined, cross-cutting technical, engineering, and architectural policies, processes,
and practices for responsive sub-orbital and orbital launch. Develops capability-based
requirements documents for responsive launch capabilities (launch vehicles, launch
infrastructure, and associated launch support), ranges, along with the command and control (C2)
capabilities; responsive ground elements, and tactics, techniques and procedures (TTP) to ensure
responsive space operations. Represents ORS, Rocket Systems Launch Program, and Space Test
Program in the headquarters requirements, budgeting, and S&T processes.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                           68


15.9.2. Integration Branch (A5VI). Plans for and directs acquisition programs to effect timely
integration and assured interoperability of ORS capabilities with UAV, high altitude, space,
surface, and airborne C4I platforms at the Joint, Operational and Tactical levels. Documents
operational and system level interface requirements for integration of ORS capabilities into joint
warfighting command and control (C2) and information dissemination systems. Directs
campaign level modeling, simulation and analysis to provide the analytic basis for validating
capability needs that will guide future system acquisition decisions. Works closely with
HQ AFSPC/A8P, FMA, and SAF to plan for and execute POM, PBD, and PDM submissions and
work execution year budget issues.
15.9.3. Spacecraft Branch (A5VS). Develops requirements for small operational satellites
(OpSats) and responsive satellite operation systems (Multi-Mission Satellite Operations Center –
MMSOC). Interfaces with respective directorates and agencies to define mission selection,
exercise planning and execution, transition planning and sustaining mission operations. Verifies,
and validates emerging ORS mission requirements to provide persistent collection (e.g.,
augmenting reconnaissance platforms), predictive awareness during emergency crises, and
dedicated real time target location, identification, tracking and engagement, etc. Generates
requirements based upon warfighter/COCOM need to demonstrate a variety of new ground and
space-based capabilities using much smaller, tactical satellite models to validate many of the
future operational concepts currently in development, while also evolving a future ground system
architecture based on open and service-oriented standards for satellite operations. Supports the
programming, planning, and budgeting for MMSOC, and emerging ORS space platforms to
include common bus/payload development and missions required by ORS needs or supported by
the Space Test Program.
15.10 Policy and Integration Division (A5X). A5X facilitates, coordinates, and synchronizes
policy and integration issues to ensure the AFSPC Command Leads are able to successfully
define, develop, field, and operate their capabilities. A5X implements DoD and Air Force (AF)
requirements and acquisition policies for space and missile weapon systems.
15.10.1 Policy and Process Branch (A5XR). A5XR is the directorate lead for review and
approval/validation of initial capabilities documents (ICDs), operational requirements documents
(ORDs), capability development documents (CDDs), capability production documents (CPDs),
and analysis of alternatives (AoA). Develops AFSPC operational requirements and acquisition
life cycle policy, processes and procedures. Command focal point for the Information and
Resource Support System (IRSS). Directorate’s interface with Air Force-wide requirement
agencies, Air Force Requirements Oversight Capabilities Council (AFROCC), SECAF, Joint
Requirements Oversight Council (JROC), OSD, other Services, and industry to keep AFSPC
abreast of related requirement efforts. Responsible for A5 Command Lead training and
certification. Directorate responsibilities for the Capabilities Based Planning and Long Range
Planning activities to include the Capability Review and Risk Assessments (CRRA),and ;
engaged in development of AF doctrine, conceptual, and strategic planning. Also responsible
for monitoring developing and operational capabilities through the Space Operations Weapon
System Management process to ensure smooth transition from acquisitions to operations.
15.10.2. Programming and Execution Branch (A5XP). Directs the AFSPC Federally Funded
Research and Development Center (FFRDC) program for Aerospace and Mitre. Focal point for
Planning, Programming, Budget, and Execution (PPBE) support for A5 programs to develop
Program Objective Memorandum (POM), Budget Estimate Submissions (BES), amended POM,
Financial Plan (FINPLAN) inputs and other financial execution plans.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                    69


15.10.3 Science and Technology Branch (A5XS). A5XS is the directorate’s focal point for
cross-cutting scientific and technology activities for space and missile programs, develops
AFSPC/CC’s near and far term S&T guidance document, produces the AFSPC S&T “Message
to Industry,” reviews and prioritizes both AF and DoD Space Experiment Review Board
(SERB), interface between SMC and AFMC for Requirements Analysis Maturation (RAM) and
facilitates MAJCOM involvement in technology transition processes (Joint Capabilities
Technology Demos, Applied Technology Council). A5XS provides collaboration across the
space S&T community to leverage efforts of external partners to include AFRL, NASA, NRO,
DARPA, NRL, NIMA, and other Services S&T communities.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                           70


                                          Chapter 16
         DIRECTORATE OF COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION (A6)

16.1. Director of Communications and Information (A6). The Director of Communications
and Information also serves as the AFSPC Chief Information Officer (CIO). The CIO develops
communications policies, plans and programs for AFSPC and ensures communications systems
provide integrated responsive support to Unified Combatant Commanders (UCCs) across the
spectrum of conflict.

16.2. CIO Support Team. The CIO Support Team works directly with the Director of
Communications and Information to provide strategic guidance on information technology
across AFSPC, its centers, NAFs and wings. The guidance is built using best practices from
government and industry organizations. That guidance is further refined into inputs for the
AFSPC strategic plan. Guidance shall be given on how to achieve efficiencies through
combining mission networks as well as other information technology (IT) assets.

16.2.1. The CIO Support Team supports AFSPC Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st
Century (AFSO21) initiatives. In cooperation with SAF/XC, AFSPC/CVO, other MAJCOM A6
staffs, AFSPC directorates, centers, NAFs and wings, the CIO Support Team gathers ideas to
improve communications operations (reducing cost, time, energy or other efficiencies). Once an
idea has been accepted as an initiative, the CIO Support Team will work with communications
leaders across the AF, AFSPC as well as the A6 Division Chiefs to identify an action officer
(AO) to oversee the implementation from inception to completion. AOs will be required to
provide monthly updates on progress to AFSPC communications leaders.

16.2.2. The CIO Support Team maintains the Process Asset Library for A6. The CIO Support
Team gathers information on the processes from the A6 Divisions. Each division will define
what each branch accomplishes as well as how they accomplish it. All processes should show
their relevance to the AFSPC mission. An example of this task is to capture the roles,
responsibilities, rules, relationships, and results for each organization.

16.2.3. The CIO Support Team facilitates corporate processes for the CIO. The CIO Support
Team coordinates IT issues/items required for discussion as part of the corporate group, board, or
counsel processes. Those issues/items brought before these corporate processes facilitate a
start/stop/continue decision on IT for AFSPC. The CIO support team works with A8 to initiate
these corporate processes.

16.2.4. The CIO Support Team provides additional support to the CIO as required. The CIO
Support Team accomplishes other tasks as assigned. These tasks could range from policy
development/review to briefing creation.

16.2.5. The CIO Support Team works with others CIOs throughout DoD to identify better ways
to leverage IT across AFSPC. The CIO Support Team facilitates forums/meetings with other
CIOs on a regular basis to discuss ways to leverage each other’s IT strengths.

16.3. Mission Capability Division (A6C). A6C facilitates rapid development and fielding of
cost efficient and sustainable operational capabilities needed by the combatant commanders—
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                        71


bridging the gaps between internal A6 experts and external users (wings and NAF) and
developers (SPOs and JSOP) ensuring defense strategy goals are being met.

16.3.1. Capability Support Branch (A6CT). A6CT participates in Capability Team meetings.
A6CT provides Action Officer (AO) interface between A6CT and A6. A6CT is the AO
clearinghouse for all action items between the Capability Teams. A6CT participates in CB
Program Management Reviews. A6CT participates in HPT as core/support members, ensuring
A6 capabilities-based and net-centric requirements are developed. A6CT reviews and ensures
enterprise and systems architectures are addressed properly in capability-based and net-centric
requirements documents. A6CT facilitates all capabilities-based suspenses. A6CT assists the
Capability Team leads by developing and preparing Alternative of Actions (AoA).

16.3.2 Integrated Requirements Branch (A6CR). The Integrated Requirements Branch
supports the AFSPC mission by planning and coordinating communication support for AFSPC
HQs, NAFs, and wings.

16.3.2.1. A6CR collects, validates, and prioritizes upward generated requirements in the AFSPC
Work Plan.

16.3.2.2. A6CR submits communications infrastructure requirements for the POM.

16.4. Net-Centricity Division (A6N). The Net-Centricity Division is responsible for
establishing policy, issuing guidance, developing architectures, and providing mission support
that directly impacts AFSPC warfighting operations and its communications infrastructure. A6N
also enables optimal logistics and communications-information integration and interoperability
of space systems. A6N is divided into three branches: (1) Architecture and Integration Branch
(A6NA), (2) Information Assurance Branch (A6NI), and (3) Communications and Information
Reach back Branch (A6NR).

16.4.1. Architecture and Integration Branch (A6NA).

16.4.1.1. Chief Information Officer (CIO) Support Team (A6). The CIO Support Team works
directly with the Director of Communications and Information to provide strategic guidance on
information technology across AFSPC, its centers, NAFs and wings.

16.4.1.2. Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century (AFSO21). In cooperation with
AFSPC/CVO, other MAJCOM A6 staffs, AFSPC directorates, centers, NAFs and wings, the
CIO Support Team gathers ideas to improve communications operations (reducing cost, time,
energy or other efficiencies). Once an idea has been accepted as an initiative, the CIO Support
Team will work with communications leaders across AFSPC as well as the A6 Division Chiefs
to identify an action officer (AO) to oversee the implementation.

16.4.1.3. Maintain Process Asset Library for A6. Gather process information from the A6
Divisions on what each branch brings to the fight as well as how they accomplish it.

16.4.1.4. Provide additional support to CIO as required. The CIO Support Team shall
accomplish other tasks as assigned. Tasks could range from policy development/review to
briefing creation.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                          72


16.4.2. Information Assurance Branch (A6NI).

16.4.2.1. A6NI ensures compliance with Federal Law by developing and maintaining a
command-wide information security program IAW Title 10 U.S.C. § 2221 and Title 44 U.S.C. §
3541.

16.4.2.2. With the standup of the AFCYBER Command and in accordance with HQ AFSPC
Information Assurance (IA) Management Plan, dated 24 Sept 07, the major tasks associated with
management responsibilities and workload for Core Services, specifically, (1) COMSEC,
EMSEC, COMPUSEC and TMAP responsibilities, (2) Information Assurance Assistance and
Assessment Program (IAAP), (3) network vulnerability scans, (5) FISMA management and (6)
certification and accreditation of core services will transfer from AFSPC to AFCA. AFSPC
retains Information Assurance compliance, management responsibilities, and workload for multi-
component space systems and space systems assigned by SAF/US. A6NI evaluates AFSPC
space systems and multi-component space systems throughout the acquisition life cycle (from
cradle-to-grave) and provides guidance with regards to implementation and design of
information assurance security controls. A6NI provides analysis of security controls to ensure
proper implementation, operation, and surety of the level of protection required for system
operations. A6NI maintains an Information Assurance Program to provide for the availability,
integrity, authentication, confidentiality, non-repudiation, and rapid restitution of information
and information systems that are essential elements of the AFSPC mission and multi-component
space systems supporting USSTRATCOM.

16.4.2.3. In accordance with the division of responsibilities between AFSPC and AFCA, where
core service support is provided by AFCA and space mission support is provided by AFSPC, and
as stated in the HQ AFSPC Information Assurance (IA) Management Plan, dated 24 Sept 07,
AFSPC (1) maintains situational awareness of inspections and corrective actions, (2) conducts
IAAP inspections and SAVs of AFSPC space mission systems, (3) receives policy from Air
Force, interpret AFSPC-unique guidance and write supplements, (4) receives COMSEC incident
reports, field support requests, (5) processes COMSEC waivers for AFSPC space mission
systems, (6) provides EMSEC support for AFSPC space mission systems, (7) reviews and
approve all EMSEC reports, field support, and waiver requests for multi-component space
systems (8) endorses and forwards field support requests if personnel, resources or operational
necessity issues are involved, (9) coordinates USSTRATCOM information assurance
requirements in support of COCOM missions, (10) provides Designated Authorizing Authority
(DAA) support to USSTRATCOM for multi-component space systems, and any space systems
assigned by SAF/US and (11) provides DAA support for AFSPC space mission systems A6NI
reviews plans, programs, and requirements supporting NORAD/NORTHCOM, USSTRATCOM
and AFSPC.

16.4.2.4. A6NI coordinates with the intelligence, counterintelligence, and law enforcement
Communities to identify strategic threats against AFSPC and multi-component national space
systems.

16.4.2.5. A6NI supports the Command Information Operations (INFOCON) process.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                           73


16.4.2.6. A6NI provides technical guidance affecting AFSPC multi-component space systems
and modernization efforts supporting NORAD/USNORTHCOM, USSTRATCOM and AFSPC.

16.4.2.7. A6NI maintains the MAJCOM Information Assurance Program to provide for the
availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, non-repudiation and rapid restitution of
information and information systems that are essential elements of the AFSPC mission and
multi-component space systems supporting USSTRATCOM. A6NI provides for availability,
integrity, authentication, confidentiality, non-repudiation, and rapid restitution of information
and information systems.

16.4.2.8. A6NI provides information security protection commensurate with the risk and
magnitude of the harm resulting from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption,
modification, or destruction of (1) information collected or maintained by AFSPC and (2)
information systems used or operated by an agency, contractor of an agency or other
organization on behalf of AFSPC.

16.4.2.9. A6NI identifies threats to AFSPC information/information systems and recommends
mitigation strategies.

16.4.2.10. A6NI provides NORAD/NORTHCOM, USSTRATCOM and Air Force Space
Command with information technology consultation, engineering oversight and technical support
for major communications and information systems.

16.4.2.11. A6NI reviews DIACAP multi-component space systems packages for security
vulnerabilities, architecture compliance and network operations affecting the AFSPC
Warfighting sub-Enterprise.

16.4.2.12. A6NI performs vulnerability assessments on all AFSPC space mission systems.

16.4.2.13. A6NI coordinates DAA permission for both Red and Blue Network Vulnerability
Assessments that are performed against the AFSPC Enterprise.

16.4.2.14. A6NI provides oversight of the AFSPC Federal Information Security Management
Act (FISMA) through the development and implementation of key security standards and
guidelines reflecting legislative, DoD, and Air Force intent of applicable laws, directives, and
regulations to ensure compliance with the FISMA.

16.4.2.15. A6NI reviews proposed contracts and statements of work (SOW) for F&P activities
affecting AFSPC.

16.4.3. Communications and Information Reachback Branch (A6NR). A6NR consists of
two sections: (1) Infrastructure and (2) Network Services. A6NR manages and provides
policy/guidance for AFSPC’s enterprise infrastructure and provides command-wide leadership
and direction for Enterprise Information Management (EIM) transformation initiatives.

16.4.3.1. A6NR serves as the AFSPC focal point for downward-directed communications and
information programs.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                      74


16.4.3.2. A6NR provides functional, technical, implementation and operations/maintenance
management to the headquarters and wings/units base level communications/computer systems.

16.4.3.3. A6NR supports plans and programs for AFSPC’s enterprise infrastructure including
preparing Program Objective Memorandum and Fiscal Year inputs IAW AFSPC guidelines.

16.4.3.4.    A6NR develops infrastructure technical architectures to guide future command
investments.

16.4.3.5. A6NR serves as the Command Spectrum Manager.

16.4.3.6. A6NR manages transition of AFSPC network and services to the Air Force Network
Operations (AFNetOps) construct to include the stand-up of the MAJCOM C4 Coordination
Center (MCCC).

16.4.3.7. A6NR plans, manages, and oversees implementation of command-supported network
systems and services.

16.4.3.8. A6NR provides policy and guidance on command-supported network systems.

16.4.3.9. A6NR provides contract oversight, project management, and installation support for
C2 systems, messaging systems, and applications affecting the command’s classified and
unclassified networks (i.e., network/server consolidation, messaging services, Public Key
Infrastructure, and development of a command-wide Disaster Recovery Plan).

16.4.3.10. A6NR serves          as   AFSPC     liaison   for   communications    support   to
NORAD/USNORTHCOM.

16.4.3.11. A6NR acquires, engineers, and oversees implementation of enterprise network
services originating in or supporting NORAD/USNORTHCOM, USSTRATCOM, and AFSPC.

16.4.3.12. A6NR evaluates technologies and recommends implementation strategies for new
technologies (e.g., wireless networking, voice-over-IP, and IP Version 6).

16.4.3.13. A6NR serves as the command lead for GCSS-AF Portal and AFSPC Content
management. A6NR develops command policy and provides guidance; develops command
strategy for content and application migration to GCSS-AF Portal and AFSPC web-based IT
solutions; develops command policy, processes, and management criteria for managing web sites
across the command; advocates and acquires funding to execute program requirements; and
orchestrates/conducts technical assistance support at AFSPC’s NAFs, centers, wings, bases,
Dets, FOA, GSUs, etc.

16.4.3.14. A6NR manages command Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems (ATCALS).
A6NR accompanies and renders expertise to A3R on Air Traffic System Evaluation Program
(ATSEP) evaluations of AFSPC units. A6NR manages the ATCALS Consolidated Hands-On
Training facility.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                      75


16.4.3.15. A6NR manages command radio systems (e.g., Land Mobile Radio and High-
Frequency systems). A6NR also manages the Command Personal Wireless Communications
System (PWCS).

16.4.3.16. A6NR manages command administrative and secure voice systems and advocates
administrative voice requirements to the Air Force Communications Functional FOA
(AFCA/AFCYBER).

16.4.3.17. A6NR is the Command lead for commercial communications. A6NR advocates
commercial communications requirements to the Air Force Communications Functional FOA
(AFCA/AFCYBER).

16.4.3.18. A6NR is the Command lead for Visual Imagery/Intrusion Detection Systems
(VIIDS). A6NR advocates sustainment requirements to the Air Force Communications
Functional FOA (AFCA/AFCYBER).

16.4.3.19. A6NR performs Staff Assistance Visits and augments the AFSPC/IG.

16.5. Resources, Plans and Policy Division (A6X). A6X manages AFSPC's communications
and information (C&I) peacetime/wartime force structure and the C&I force-shaping activities.
A6X provides functional oversight for AFSPC 33S, 3A0XX, 3CXXX, 2EXXX, and 3VXXX
career fields. A6X develops C&I design operational capability statements, prepares SORTS
reports, and manages C&I deployment taskings. A6X administers individual mobilization
augmentee program. A6X is the focal point for AFSPC Operationalize and Professionalize The
Network (OPTN) and DoD 8570 training initiatives.

16.5.1. Plans, Policy & Contracts Management Branch (A6XP). A6XP provides command
communications planning oversight, policy, and contract oversight for AFSPC and AFSPC units
during peacetime and war.

16.5.1.1. A6XP conducts communications strategic planning through active participation in the
AFSPC Integrated Planning Process (IPP). A6XP consolidates the A6's input to the
communications and information annex for command Program Planning (PPlan),
Implementation Planning (I-Plan), AFSPC Strategic Plans, and Program Action Directive (PAD)
documents. A6XP performs Program Message (PMsg) development and coordination. A6XP is
the A6 lead representative for Project Task Forces (PROTAFs) and Site Activation Task Forces
(SATAFs). A6XP is the A6 lead representative for Operational Wartime, Contingency, and
Exercise preparations inspections plans.

16.5.1.2. A6XP manages Information Management functions in support of the CIO by issuing
policy, program oversight, guidance, and direct support to the communications and information
community and command-wide customers. A6XP programs include Command Policy
development and management, Command Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), Command
Privacy Act (PA), Command Postal Management, Command Administrative Communications
(reports, control, office symbols), Information Collections and Reports, Command Records
Management, Command Publications and Forms Management, and Command Document
Automation Production Service (DAPS) Liaison Manager.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                        76


16.5.1.3. A6XP provides project and contract management support for the AFSPC Enterprise
Network systems and services.



16.5.2. Resources Branch (A6XR). A6XR manages AFSPC's communications and
information (C&I) peacetime/wartime force structure and C&I force-shaping activities. A6XR
provides functional oversight for AFSPC 33S, 3A0XX, 3CXXX, 2EXXX, and civilian career
fields. A6XR develops design operational capability statements and prepares SORTS reports.
A6XR manages C&I deployment taskings. A6XR administers individual mobilization
augmentee program and the A6 Directorate Deployment Program for the A6 Directorate. A6XR
oversees AFSPC Information Technology (IT) Portfolio Management (PfM) and Federal
Information Security Management Act (FISMA) regulatory processes.

16.5.2.1. A6XR manages the AFSPC-wide IMA/Reserve/ANG programs and is the AFSPC
functional manager for Military Personnel Appropriation (MPA) man-day accounts for C&I and
Logistics. A6XR manages the Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) program, billets, and
access for AFSPC/A6 personnel.

16.5.2.2. A6XR is the command focal point for AFSPC C&I officer and enlisted career field
issues. A6XR manages manpower, personnel, training, utilization, and contingency wartime
planning for 33S, 2EXXX, 3AXXX, and 3CXXX, career fields. A6XR has collateral
responsibility with AFSPC/A1 to develop, validate, and program C&I manpower resources.
A6XR develops career field training material, to include Career Development Course (CDC),
Career Field Education and Training Plans (CFETP), 3- and 7-level course development, and
specialty descriptions through Utilization and Training Workshops (U&TW). A6XR has
collateral responsibility with AFSPC/A1 for officer and enlisted C&I assignments. A6XR is
responsible for managing C&I contingency/wartime planning to support employing combat
forces, to include personnel and equipment. A6XR issues planning guidance to command C&I
career fields. A6XR manages individual functional unit type codes (UTCs) to include numbers
postured and tasked to fill real-world deployment requirements and provides UTC availability to
war planners.

16.5.2.3. A6XR maintains liaison with the Civilian Personnel Flight and manages HQ
AFSPC/A6 civilian programs for assigned personnel, including the annual appraisal program and
civilian training budget. A6XR develops training policy and plans and establishes training
requirements for assigned personnel. A6XR conducts the civilian professional development
program and the HQ AFSPC/A6 Personnel Management Board.

16.5.2.4. A6XR is responsible for managing 3CXXX and 3AXXX network training initiatives
under the OPTN and DoD 8570 training and certification programs administered by the Air
Force Communications Agency. A6XR manages AETC formal course training for AFSPC
communications squadrons, which includes annual quotas and funding. A6XR creates policy
and procedures for the AFSPC Client Support Administrator Training Program. A6XR
interfaces with base Network Training Centers to administer command approved training
curriculum and plans for and implements new training initiatives by investigating innovative
training procedures and software. A6XR oversees communications squadron Status of
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                          77


Resources and Training (SORTS) and prepares SORTS briefings for A6 for presentation to
AFSPC/CV. A6XR attends AF level training conferences and briefings.

16.5.2.5. A6XR manages communications portions of the deliberate (operational) planning
process and oversees deployment and wartime planning.

16.5.2.6. A6XR manages the communications and information budget and funding processes for
AFSPC. A6XR directs and participates in planning, controlling, evaluating, validating,
prioritizing, and monitoring of information C&I systems requirements for POM, BES, and PB
submissions. A6XR plans and executes the current year budget for the Command's logistics and
communications financial resources. A6XR manages the annual Financial Plan for the
Command's missile communications support, bases' communications operations, engineering and
installation, communications circuits, radios, visual information, Global Command and Control
System (GCCS) support, and the Directorate's administrative account. A6XR manages the
Command's central account for dedicated, leased, long lines and coordinates with HQ
AFSPC/FM on other central accounts for the Working Capital Fund, Depot Purchase
Maintenance Equipment, and Depot-Level Repairs. A6XR represents the Directorate in the
Headquarters Financial Working Group. A6XR administers Government Purchase Card,
Government Travel Card, and travel, supplies, and equipment funding for the directorate. A6XR
represents the A6 as a voting member on the AFSPC Mission Teams and the Operational Budget
Review Committee. A6XR serves as secretariat for the A6 O-6 Resource Management Board.

16.5.2.7. A6XR is the focal point for all issues involving directorate funding. A6XR advises
senior leadership on expenditure of available funds, produces the directorate financial plan, and
manages the required actions between HQ AFSPC/FM and division resource advisors within the
directorate. A6XR produces status reports and briefs senior officers. A6XR is the Approving
official for all GPC purchases and reconciles monthly GPC purchases in web-based Customer
Automation & Reporting Environment (CARE) program.

16.5.2.8. A6XR is the command’s IT Portfolio Manager and administers the Enterprise
Information Technology Database Repository (EITDR) policies, processes and procedures.
A6XR facilitates alignment of IT investments to space capabilities supporting AFSPC mission
areas and integrates strategic, financial, functional, and technical reviews into a unified
governance process. A6XR provides oversight for evaluations, prioritization, balance, and
approval of both new initiatives and existing portfolios. A6XR provides CIO IT IM guidance for
technology assessment and technology acquisition for all AFSPC mission systems
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                        78


                                         Chapter 17
           DIRECTORATE OF PLANS, PROGRAMS AND ANALYSES (A8/9)

17.1. Directorate of Plans, Programs and Analyses (A8/9). Develops strategy, policy,
doctrine and long-range plans to control and exploit space. Provide oversight of modeling,
simulation and scientific analysis.          Program and advocate manpower, resources and
organizational development. Manage competitive sourcing and privatization, and develop and
sustain international relations in direct support of AFSPC and Air Force missions.
17.2. Basing and International Affairs Division (A8I). Manages AFSPC basing (including
Base Realignment and Closure [BRAC] actions within AFSPC), international affairs/policy and
foreign disclosure processes. Leads functional teams to conduct site surveys for beddown
requests at AFSPC installations; coordinates and processes Command recommendations to the
Air Staff. Works with Command functional leads to develop Programming Plans (PPlans) in
response to HAF/SAF Program Action Directives or other direction. Formulates and implements
international plans and policies for Air Force Space Command to include: developing and
implementing National Disclosure Policy for AFSPC and directing AFSPC arms control
implementation and compliance efforts.             Command’s approval authority for releasing
information to foreign nationals. Administers the Command’s foreign visit program.
17.2.1. Bases and Units Branch (A8IB). Directs programmatic decisions for all AFSPC-
owned installations and AFSPC/Contractor presence at various overseas and CONUS locations.
17.2.1.1. Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Program Manager for AFSPC. Plans,
coordinates, manages, directs implementation of all statutory BRAC requirements at AFSPC
installations.
17.2.1.2. Assembles Project Task Forces (PROTAFs), consisting of HQ AFSPC functional
representatives, to identify and coordinate actions required to accomplish the objectives of a
specific project (e.g., beddown actions, Enhanced Use Lease, etc.).
17.2.1.3. Conducts site surveys for all requests to relocate existing AFSPC units, beddown new
AFSPC units, or locate non-AFSPC units on AFSPC installations.
17.2.1.4. In conjunction with AFSPC action/program lead, develops all Command Programming
Plans when multiple functional areas must be involved in accomplishing an approved
action/program.
17.2.1.5. Formulates command positions on key programming and installation issues and
initiatives in response to major international events and fiscal matters that impact AFSPC
missions.
17.2.1.6. Coordinates command foreign basing/operating actions.
17.2.2. Foreign Disclosure Branch (A8IF). Serves as executive agent on Foreign Disclosure
Policy for AFSPC. Oversees requests for sponsoring, co-sponsoring or conducting conferences,
symposia and other similar meetings. Command representative in International Cooperation
Armament Team meetings. Oversees Exchange, Cooperative Program and Exchange Scientist
and Engineer Programs. Implements the National Disclosure Policy.
17.2.2.1. Command’s approval authority for releasing information to foreign nationals.
17.2.2.2. Administers the Command’s foreign visit program.
17.2.2.3. Approves and coordinates all visits by Canadian NORAD/NORTHCOM personnel to
DoD agencies and contractor facilities.
17.2.2.4. Administers the International Traffic In Arms Regulation; oversees export license and
technology transfer actions..
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                        79


17.2.2.5. Serves as command focal point for the military-to-military contact program.
17.2.2.6 Implements the National Disclosure Policy.
17.2.2.7 Administers the Air Force Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program; develop
MAJCOM requirements for foreign nationals in AFSPC programs.
17.2.2.8 Administers and coordinates Foreign Disclosure, Export Control and Technology
Transfer issues with other agencies and contractors as necessary.
17.2.2.9 Reviews security compromises of Classified Information and Unauthorized Access to
Controlled Unclassified Military Information to Foreign Nationals; reports to SAF/IAPD.
17.2.3 International Policy & Arms Control Branch (A8IP). Anticipates and assesses world
events impacting AFSPC missions and units.
17.2.3.1. Provides politico-military analysis for overseas basing/deployment actions.
17.2.3.2 Conducts international discussions/negotiations.
17.2.3.3. Ensures compliance with and develops guidance for arms control treaties applicable to
AFSPC programs and units.
17.2.3.4 Increases awareness to sensitivities and requirements of overseas operations.
17.2.3.5 Oversees foreign travel of AFSPC and assigned foreign exchange personnel.
17.2.3.6 Directs Command Foreign Military Sales and security assistance.
17.3. Programs Division (A8P). Responsible for developing the Command’s annual Program
Objective Memorandum (POM)/Amended POM (APOM)/Change Proposals (CP) and
President’s Budget (PB) submission and for reviewing, revising, and approving all documents
relating to AFSPC’s Future Years Defense Plan (FYDP).
17.3.1. Command Lead for HQ AFSPC Corporate Structure.
17.3.2. AFSPC lead for analysis of AF funding and advocate of HQ AFSPC funding in five
Mission Areas: Space Force Enhancement, Counterspace, Space Force Application, Space
Support, and Mission Support; comprising 133 Program Elements.
17.3.3. Analyze, integrate, and consolidate AFSPC Directorates’ inputs to the AFSPC
POM/APOM/CP/PB submission IAW the DOD Planning, Programming, and Budgeting
Execution (PPBE) process.
17.3.4 Analyzes AF, OSD, and Congressional adjustments to AFSPC TOA for impact to
Command Programs.
17.3.5 Provide updates to Command leadership on results of AF Corporate Structure
deliberations.
17.3.6 Develop and conduct briefings to Command Corporate Structure, USECAF, Air Staff and
Combatant Commanders.
17.3.7     Develop and conduct training on the DOD PPBE and the USAF/AFSPC
POM/APOM/CP/PB processes.
17.3.8 Develop, evaluate, and analyze issues relating to force structure and modernization for
Combatant Commands.
17.3.9 Voting member of the Air Force Group.
17.3.10 Program Integration Branch (A8PE). Focal point for all programming activities
within AFSPC.
17.3.10.1 Maintain ABIDES data base: 133 PEs, $11.5B to 14B/yr.
17.3.10.2 Leads POM development/delivery to Air Staff.
17.3.10.3 Integrates directorates’ activities into a consolidated AFSPC position.
17.3.10.4 Monitors/informs AFSPC leadership of all AF PPBE exercises.
17.3.10.5 Provides PPBE training .
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                  80


17.3.10.6 Responsible for AFSPC Corporate Process supporting all HQ AFSPC directorates .
17.3.11 Mission Support Integration Branch (A8PL). Reviews funding priorities for Mission
Support programs
17.3.11.1. Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN).
17.3.11.2. Base Communications, Media, Bandwidths.
17.3.11.3. DPEM, CLS, CAMP, Vehicle Fleets.
17.3.11.4. Logistics (A4); Comm and Infrastructure (A6); Mission Support (A7); Civil
Engineering; Real property Infrastructure, MILCON, Environmental; Readiness; Chem-bio,
WMD Response; Security Forces; Electronic Security, TTC, and TRF.
17.3.11.5. Manpower, Personnel, and Services (A1); Training: National Security Space
Institute; TA, MRT, ALS; Family Matters, People Programs, Child Care, Community Action
Information Board.
17.3.11.6. Financial Management (FM); Installations Services / Headquarters Management;
Execution Year review, Year End, GWOT, Fin Plan forecast.
17.3.11.7. Command Surgeon (SG); Medical requirements for Counter-Chemical Biological,
Radioactive, Nuclear and high-yield Explosives (C-CBRNE).
17.3.11.8.. Chaplain.
17.3.11.9. Historian.
17.3.12. Force Application and Missile Warning Branch (A8PM). Reviews funding
priorities for all programs within Force Applications.
17.3.12.1. ICBMs and related communications programs.
17.3.12.2. All Missile Warning programs including DSP, SBIRS (GEO/HEO), GIRS, Ground
Early Warning Radars and related systems.
17.3.12.3. Missile Defense.
17.3.12.4. Helicopters.
17.3.12.5. Prompt Global Strike.
17.3.12.6. NSSO and AF TENCAP.
17.3.13. Space Force Enhancement Branch (A8PS). Reviews funding priorities for all
programs within the Force Enhancement (weather, communications, and navigation) and Space
Forces Support (spacelift) mission areas.
17.3.13.1. Weather & Space Environmental Monitoring: DMSP, NPOESS.
17.3.13.2. MILSATCOM: DSCS, MILSTAR, AEHF, WGS, TSAT Polar MILSATCOM, GBS
and associated terminals.
17.3.13.3. Position, navigation and timing: GPS.
17.3.13.4. Space launch: Delta II, EELV (Delta IV and Atlas V), and ORS.
17.3.13.5. Launch Ranges: East and West Coasts and Space Shuttle Operations.
17.3.14 Space Control Branch (A8PY). Reviews funding priorities for Counterspace, C2 and
Intel.
17.3.14.1. Space Situational Awareness (SSA); GEODDS, SST, Eglin, S-Band Fence, HUSIR,
SSN Operations, ISSA.
17.3.14.2. Defensive Space Control & Offensive Space Control; space control technology,
RAIDRS, CCS, Space Test & Training Range.
17.3.14.3. JSpOC - Space C2; AOC, Space C2.
17.3.14.4. NORAD Cheyenne Mountain Complex
17.3.14.5. Space Test Program (STP)
17.3.14.6. Intelligence Programs
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         81


17.4. Plans Division (A8X). Leads the development of space and nuclear strategy, doctrine and
policy, long-range plans and investment strategies that deliver space combat capabilities to
today’s and tomorrow’s warfighter.
17.4.1. Directorate POC for Senior Leader Strategic Focus Days and Forums, as applicable.
Serves as full voting member on the Air Force Doctrine Working Group.
17.4.2. Strategic Studies and Wargames Branch (A8XC). Command focal point for AFSPC
strategic studies and wargaming efforts.
17.4.2.1. Operates as AFSPC/CC's "Think Tank" for areas of known or potential risk in military
space missions and authors independent critical assessments on strategic alternatives
17.4.2.2. Provides strategic analysis of emerging space defense trends and challenges.
17.4.2.3. Determines the impact, implications and consequences of trends, events, programs and
initiatives that might affect the USAF and AFSPC—develops options to mitigate or exploit.
17.4.2.4. Establishes and maintains connectivity with Staff Strategic Studies Group, COCOMs,
MAJCOMs, NAFs and other organizations to shape debate on military space strategies, policies
and missions, promote concepts and programs, and maintain AFSPC transparency and situational
awareness.
17.4.2.5. Serves as POC for RAND studies.
17.4.2.6. Applies adversaries’ points of view on the strategic threat environment to create
strategic insights, identify planning shortfalls and improve contingency responses.
17.4.2.7. Provides policy, guidance and oversight for AFSPC involvement in wargames and
ensures such wargames reflect AFSPC/CC objectives.
17.4.2.8. Ensures wargames are used to evaluate innovative strategies and validate effectiveness
of mission concepts against evolving threats.
17.4.2.9. Assesses wargame outcomes and impacts on AFSPC strategic planning and works with
A9X and other AFSPC staff to develop, disseminate and track actionable lessons learned and
recommendations among space enterprise partners.
17.4.3. Space Strategy, Doctrine and Policy Branch (A8XS). Command focal- point for
strategy, doctrine and policy for military space operations.
17.4.3.1. Leads command review of Air Force, Joint and Allied doctrine, advancing the
collective body of thought that documents the best way to employ U.S./Joint/Allied systems,
perform military/USAF functions and organize for specific missions, and ensure AFSPC equities
are sufficiently represented in doctrine documents.
17.4.3.1.1. Leads AFSPC-wide coordination on doctrine documents
17.4.3.1.2. Serves as the AF functional POC for space-related doctrine.
17.4.3.2. Command lead for strategy review, development and analysis.
17.4.3.2.1. Reviews national strategy documents to ensure proper HHQ guidance to shape
AFSPC strategic planning products.
17.4.3.2.2. Provides strategy input to the Strategic Framework.
17.4.3.2.3. Provides input to support DoD and USAF strategy documents, e.g., NSS, NMS, Air
Force Strategic Plan, Air Force Vision, etc.
17.4.3.3. Command lead for policy review, development and analysis.
17.4.3.3.1. Leads command-wide coordination and provide inputs to National and DoD space
policy. Provides subject matter expertise to HQ and field units.
17.4.3.3.2. Provides policy updates to AFSPC Senior Leaders.
17.4.3.3.3. Prepares leadership for interviews, conferences, etc., e.g., National Space Policy
development, rollout and implementation actions.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         82


17.4.3.4. Engaged with joint organizations and with HQ Air Force on AFSPC command
relationships. Provides subject matter expertise to HQ and field units on command relationships.
17.4.3.5. Supports the directorate Quadrennial Defense Review POC.
17.4.4. Nuclear Strategy, Doctrine and Policy Branch (A8XN). Command focal-point for
AFSPC nuclear strategy, doctrine and policy for military space operations.
17.4.4.1. Command lead for nuclear strategy review, development and analysis.
17.4.4.1.1. Reviews national nuclear strategy documents to ensure proper HHQ guidance to
shape AFSPC strategic planning products.
17.4.4.1.2. Provides nuclear strategy input into AFSPC’s strategic planning documents.
17.4.4.1.3. Provides input to support DoD and USAF strategy documents.
17.4.4.2. Leads command review of Air Force, Joint and Allied nuclear doctrine, ensuring
AFSPC equities are sufficiently represented in doctrine documents.
17.4.4.2.1. Leads AFSPC-wide coordination on nuclear doctrine documents
17.4.4.2.2. Serves as the AF functional POC for nuclear-related doctrine.
17.4.4.3. Command lead for nuclear policy review, development and analysis.
17.4.4.3.1. Leads command-wide coordination and provide inputs to National and DoD nuclear
policy. Provides subject matter expertise to HQ and field units.
17.4.4.3.2. Provides nuclear policy updates to AFSPC Senior Leaders.
17.4.4.3.3. Prepares leadership for interviews, conferences, etc.
17.4.4.4. Engages with joint organizations and with HQ Air Force on AFSPC nuclear command
relationships. Provides subject matter expertise to HQ and field units on nuclear command
relationships. Conducts outreach with non-DoD organizations and academia to promote DoD
and USAF nuclear strategy, policy and doctrine matters.
17.4.4.5. Supports the command Nuclear Posture Review POC.
17.4.4.6. Serves as POC for RAND studies pertaining to nuclear matters.
17.4.5. Strategic Plans Branch (A8XP). Command focal-point for strategic planning and
strategic planning products.
17.4.5.1. Manages AFSPC’s Integrated Planning Process (IPP), leading Functional Area
Analysis (FAA), Functional Needs Analysis (FNA), Functional Solution Analysis (FSA), and
Integrated Investment Analysis (IIA) phases and facilitates all IPP Corporate Process meetings.
17.4.5.2. Develops and maintains IPP and strategic planning guidance documents, IPP training
products, and improves and conducts IPP training.
17.4.5.3. Identifies, prioritizes for and monitors analytical effects in support of the IPP.
17.4.5.4. Reviews and coordinates on other AF CONOPs and AFSPC functional concepts in
support of the IPP.
17.4.5.5. Interfaces with HQ AFSPC Command Leads, Program Element Monitors, Capability
Teams and with USSTRATCOM, Headquarters Air Force, NAFs, Centers, and others in direct
support of the IPP.
17.4.5.6. Develops the AFSPC Strategic Plan, to include the Commander’s Guidance and Intent,
the Strategic Framework, the Strategic Recapitalization Plan, the Divestiture Strategy and Plan
and other strategic integration and capabilities products as required.
17.4.5.7. Develops the constrained and unconstrained 20-year planning force and force
structure.
17.4.5.8. Reviews, provides HQ AFSPC inputs to, and ensures HQ AFSPC alignment to the Air
Force Vision, Strategic Plan, Required Force, Annual Planning and Programming Guidance, and
other Air Force recapitalization/long-range planning efforts.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                       83


17.4.5.9. Integrates long-range planning efforts with Headquarters Air Force, USSTRATCOM,
MAJCOMs, other Services, NRO, NSSO, NASA, Product Centers, and other Services and Joint
agencies as required.
17.4.5.10. Evaluates, coordinates and integrates system concepts and programs.
17.4.5.11. Facilitates development of measures to assess current and future capabilities.
17.4.5.12. Lead for Space and C4ISR CONOPS development.
17.4.5.13. Supports the Air Force Capabilities Based Planning (CBP) and Air Force Capabilities
Review and Risk Assessment (CRRA) process and provides planning expertise to various
AFSPC and Air Force Integrated Product Teams.
17.4.5.14. Collaborates on development of the Air Force Master Capabilities Library and
Process Sequence Models to support CBP/CRAA
17.4.5.15. Provides planning expertise to support POM and APOM development and exercises.
17.4.5.16. Integrates Capability Team expertise and input to develop the AFSPC constrained
and unconstrained 20-year planning force, force structure and investment strategy.
17.4.5.17. Provides technical expertise for and maintains strategic planning databases and
analysis tools.
17.5. Special Programs Division (A8Z). Responsible for planning, programming, and security
functions for the Command’s Special Programs Program Objective Memorandum
(POM)/Amended POM (APOM)/Change Proposals (CP) and President’s Budget (PB)
submissions. Review, track, and maintain all budget information and documents relating to the
AFSPC portion of the Special Program Review Group (SPRG) Future Years Defense Plan
(FYDP). Provides dedicated security support for all Special Program Review Group (SPRG)
programs executed by Air Force Space Command. Command Lead for HQ AFSPC Corporate
Structure for classified programs. Responsible for development of the Air Force Space
Command Strategic Vision and the 20-year Mission Area Plan for space control. Integrates
current and future planned force structure into exercises and wargames. Responsible for the
execution and management of special access program security controls that safeguard AFSPC’s
operational and technological advantages from potential enemies.
17.5.1. Special Programs Engine Room (A8ZP). Responsible for SAP/SAR program funding
for fiscal year execution and Future Years’ Defense Plan IAW DoD directive 5000.1, Major
Systems Acquisition and DoD directive 7045.14, Management of the DoD Programming,
Planning, Budgeting System.
17.5.1.1. Identifies fiscal and programming trade-offs.
17.5.1.2.        Formulates/advocates     and     defends    command      positions     on key
programming/capabilities issues/initiatives impacting Special Access Programs.
17.5.1.3. Coordinates SAP/SAR programming issues with other MAJCOMs, COCOMs, Air
Staff, and Defense Agencies.
17.5.1.4.. “Engine Room” for AFSPC’s Special Access Programs; Primary interface to AF
Special Programs Review Group; Runs AFSPC’s SAP/SAR programming process
17.5.2. Special Programs Planning Branch (A8ZX). Command focal point for Space Control
long-range planning and Special Access Programs/Special Access Requirements (SAP/SAR)
Plans and Programs. Responsible for development of the Air Force Space Command Strategic
Vision, strategies, the 20-year Mission Area Plan/Strategic Recapitalization Plan, Capability
Plans/Roadmaps/Architectures and Functional Concept for space control and SAP/SAR
capabilities IAW AFI 10-604, Capabilities-Based Planning; AFPD 90-11, Air Force Planning
System.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                          84


17.5.2.1. Guides development and integration of the Command's Space Control strategy and
plans with USSTRATCOM, OSD, SAF, HAF and other DoD organizations.
17.5.2.2. Interfaces directly with other MAJCOMs, unified commands, the Air Staff, and
defense agencies to integrate operational requirements and concepts into current and future force
structure planning.
17.5.2.3. Executes the Integrated Planning Process (IPP) for the Space Control and SAP/SAR
mission area, to include Functional Area Analysis (FAA), Functional Needs Analysis (FNA),
Functional Solution Analysis (FSA), and Integrated Investment Analysis (IIA). Identifies,
prioritizes and monitors all analytical effects for the Space Control and SAP/SAR mission area in
support of the IPP. Integrates IPP products directly with HQ AFSPC/A8X.
17.5.2.4.. Integrates Space Control long-range planning efforts with Headquarters Air Force,
MAJCOMs, USSTRATCOM, other COCOMs, other Services, NRO, NSSO, NASA, Product
Centers, AFRL, DARPA and other DoD and Joint organizations as required.
17.5.2.5. Integrates current and future planned force structure into exercises and wargames.
17.5.2.6. Supports Space Control programming exercises and program development.
17.5.2.7.. Serves as the chief architect for integration across the entire space control and
SAP/SAR infrastructure to link Space Situational Awareness, Command and Control, Protection
and Information Operations to National and Command strategies, policies, and warfighter needs
in the development of current and future space control force structure.
17.5.3. Security, Counterintelligence and Special Program Oversight Branch (A8ZS).
Responsible for the execution and management of all security policies and requirements for all
SPRG Special Access Programs. Executes special access program security controls that
safeguard AFSPC’s operational and technological advantages from potential enemies IAW AFI
16-701, Special Access Program.
17.5.3.1. Guides the development of Security Classification Guidance (SCG), Public Affairs
(PA) guidance and Program Protection Plans for each Special Access Program.
17.5.3.2. Ensures all facilities and Automated Information Systems at all Government and
contractor facilities are periodically inspected to ensure compliance with the Cognizant Security
Agency requirements.
17.5.3.3. Implements Operational Security (OPSEC) and Counterintelligence (CI) measures
needed to support each SAP and ensures an aggressive and tailored security education program is
in place for each program.
17.5.3.4. Interfaces directly with other MAJCOMs, unified commands, the Air Staff and defense
agencies to ensure security policy and SAP requirements are executed on behalf of the Special
Access Program Control Officer (SAPCO) or service component designee.
17.6. Analyses and Assessments Division(A9A). Coordinates analysis efforts throughout the
command to ensure consistency, soundness, and priority of effort. Reviews all analysis before
results are presented to the AFSPC commander or vice commander. Analysis for command and
control (C2) is the responsibility of all A9A branches. Each branch shall handle C2 analysis
when it pertains to one of the missions or systems for which that branch is responsible. C2
analysis supports the following ‘end-state’ capabilities:
17.6.1. Monitor the battlespace to provide a complete, accurate and fully integrated picture of
relevant information – This includes analysis of space systems to monitor their current and
predicted status in order to determine the impact to the warfighter.
17.6.2. Make accurate assessments for planning, execution and reporting – This analysis
involves determining the value of metrics describing the performance of space systems under
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                             85


past, current and projected configurations. Analysis also focuses on providing commanders with
the data required to effectively monitor, assess, plan, and execute (MAPE) space force and
missile operations.
17.6.3. Collaboratively develop, evaluate, select and coordinate courses of action, plans, and
tasking in a parallel planning environment - This analysis involves developing tools and methods
to determine the best courses of action to optimize system performance from a warfighter
perspective while considering the associated ‘cost’. These tools and methods should function in
a fully integrated fashion so as not to cause adverse effects on other systems and operations.
17.6.4. Perform assessments and disseminate execute orders, plans and tasking – This analysis
supports the ‘plan’ and ‘execute’ phases of the MAPE process whereby courses of action are
decided and put into effect.
17.6.5. Guarantee reliable, accurate, secure, assured and timely delivery of information – This
analysis is related to the quality of information, including system and operational status
information as well as courses of action.
17.6.6. Maintain positive control of assigned weapons systems - This analysis relates to
providing full visibility of system and operational status and configuration (state) and the ability
to robustly and quickly execute courses of action affecting the state of weapons systems and
related assets.
17.6.7. Force Application Branch (A9AA). Serves as command focal point for force
application and missile warning analyses. Directly supports customer requirements in force
application mission area by conducting, leading, and leveraging technical studies. Assesses
combat effectiveness, operational impact, military worth, and military utility in the space force
application and missile warning mission area. Provides space force application and missile
warning technical expertise in support of AoAs and the IPP. Assesses combat effectiveness,
military worth and military utility in the space force application and missile warning mission
area.
17.6.7.1. Perform current operations analysis (leads/conducts scientific studies of current
operations for space/missile operations).
17.6.7.2. Support AoAs as members of the effectiveness analysis integrated process team.
Personnel are matrixed toA9X to support AoAs, and to A9F to support MUAs.
17.6.7.3. Conduct nuclear operational analysis supporting AFSPC objectives for near, mid and
far term requirements.
17.6.7.4. Perform conventional operational analysis supporting AFSPC objectives for near, mid
and far term requirements.
17.6.7.5. Lead special “quick look” command directed studies.
17.6.7.6. Responsible as for all space force applications (FA) and missile warning analysis work
supporting the Integrated Planning Process (IPP) and AFSPC’s capability team leads. This will
be accomplished by: (1) Insuring that the analysis correctly and comprehensively captures the
FA/MW tasks, requirements, capabilities, shortfalls, and viable alternatives (solutions – both
material and non-material) to fill these shortfalls for AFSPC support to COCOMs; (2) Providing
technical and analytical oversight of analysis efforts to fully capture the capabilities of systems
being proposed to fill the capability gap in the military’s global strike and deterrence but across
the continuum of FA programs.
17.6.7.7. Command lead for all missile warning/missile defense-related analysis at AFSPC
which includes: (1) Current operational system performance (V&V of operational MW
algorithms), (2) Planning for future systems (technical oversight and testing of new algorithms
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         86


and processing approaches), (3) Oversight of threat missile scenarios used for radar performance
and regression testing, (4) Annually generation and distribution of threat fan data (i.e., “TIC
tables”) to MW/MD operational systems such as MARS, PDS-M, GCCS, MGS, and GMD and
(5) Generation of other databases used by operational MW systems.
17.6.7.8. Serves as the USSTRATCOM/J3 Space-appointed threat sub-group lead of the Profile
Working Group (PWG). The PWG manages the development and use of threat missile profiles
to optimize threat warning performance in DSP, TACDAR, SBIRS ground stations and in MDA
assets. The threat sub-group: (1) Provides threat fans that are aligned with operational space-
based IR sensor capabilities and missile operator needs and (2) Evaluates the applicability of
other threat representations (e.g., impact ellipses using IR and radar data)
17.6.8. Space Control Branch (A9AC). Serves as command focal point for space control
analysis, including space situational awareness (SSA), offensive counterspace (OCS), and
defensive counterspace (DCS). Directly supports customer requirements in space control
mission area by conducting, leading, and leveraging technical studies. Assesses combat
effectiveness, operational impact, military worth, and military utility in the space control mission
area. Provides space control technical expertise in support of AoAs and the IPP.
17.6.8.1. Ensures interoperability of AFSPC astrodynamic systems through the development,
validation, and evaluation of astrodynamic standard algorithms.
17.6.8.2. Supports AFSPC current SSA operations through orbital analysis, system performance
evaluation, and space surveillance sensor performance analysis.
17.6.8.3. Supports AFSPC future SSA operations through command and control system upgrade
planning and evaluation, as well as space surveillance sensor capability improvement analysis.
17.6.8.4. Provides performance analysis of possible future OCS/DCS/SSA systems.
17.6.8.5. Provides astrodynamic analysis expertise to classified AFSPC and national programs.
17.6.9. Force Enhancement Branch (A9AE). Branch serves as Command focal point for force
enhancement analysis. The force enhancement mission includes Position, Navigation and
Timing (PNT); satellite communications (SATCOM); Intelligence, Surveillance and
Reconnaissance (ISR); Environmental Monitoring (EM); and Command and Control (C2).
Directly supports customer requirements in force enhancement mission areas by conducting,
leading, and leveraging technical studies. Branch assesses combat effectiveness, operational
impact, military utility and risk for force enhancement systems and operations. Provides force
enhancement technical expertise in support of Analysis of Alternatives (AoAs) and the
Integrated Planning Process (IPP). Branch provides analysis support to operations, requirements,
and planning processes within HQ AFSPC. Analysis activities fall into three major categories:
17.6.9.1. Define Analysis Problems. Working with the customer to determine their analysis
needs or identifying needs based on observed analysis shortfalls. Identifying, defining and
bounding analysis problem while establishing relevant assumptions, Measures of Performance
(MOPs), and Measures of Effectiveness (MOEs).
17.6.9.2. Develop Analysis Capability. Developing and gathering analysis capabilities, including
software, data, and studies. This involves obtaining or developing software tools, databases and
technical reports to meet customer needs to answer questions about system (current and future)
performance and military utility associated with inherent capabilities and configuration.
17.6.9.3. Conduct Analysis. Performing or direct analysis of force enhancement systems,
requirements, and CONOPS by running relevant software (tools or models) or making necessary
computations using appropriate data to generate MOPs and MOEs; and documenting the analysis
methods, results and recommendations.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                             87


17.6.9.4. The following sections address specific analysis goals for each of the 5 sub-mission
areas within Space Force Enhancement:
17.6.9.4.1. Positioning, Navigation and Timing (PNT). Analysis shall support the following
‘end state’ capabilities:
17.6.9.4.1.1. Provide survivable architecture. Analysis supporting a secure, survivable and
resilient PNT capability. Analysis includes investigation of new civil and military signals and a
Navigation Warfare (NAVWAR) capability to protect US and allied GPS use while denying it to
enemies. This analysis relates to the Space and Control segments of Global Navigation Satellite
Systems (GNSS), (e.g. GPS, GLONASS and Galileo) and associated augmentations.
17.6.9.4.1.2. Provide service from surface to geosynchronous altitudes – Analysis supporting the
provision of sufficient sources of navigational services to ensure continuous global coverage
from the earth’s surface to geosynchronous (GEO) altitudes.
17.6.9.4.1.3. Provide assured navigation signal through all levels of conflict – Analysis of GNSS
user equipment and related applications. Provide analysis of effectiveness monitoring, user
equipment, navigation warfare techniques, and development and validation of algorithms and
applications. This includes signal-in-space characteristics, effect of terrain/atmosphere, and
electronic countermeasures.
17.6.9.4.1.4. Provide unparalleled accuracy. Analysis of upgrades to all system segments to
improve the overall accuracy in determining position, velocity and time.
17.6.9.4.2.. Satellite Communications (SATCOM). Analysis shall support the following ‘end-
state’ capabilities:
17.6.9.4.2.1. Provide survivable and endurable capacity sufficient to operate in intended
environment. System level analysis of protected, survivable, and endurable communication
systems examining redundancies, utility, and shortfalls. Provide advice for integration of
SATCOM systems and long-range system requirements.
17.6.9.4.2.2. Provide the ability to avoid, prevent, negate or mitigate the degradation, disruption,
denial and unauthorized access. Includes analysis of electronic countermeasures, terrain effects,
and atmospheric effects
17.6.9.4.2.3. Provide net-centricity among SATCOM system and users. Modeling, simulation
and analysis of communication systems and networks to show flow of data and information.
Analysis supporting the SATCOM transformation to an integrated, net-centric system
architecture supporting the Global Information Grid (GIG) under the guidance of the
Transformational Communications Architecture (TCA).
17.6.9.4.2.4. Provide operational suitability for intended user community. Analysis includes
evaluation of signal capacity, link budget, protection, bit error rates, spectrum allocation, and
coverage.
17.6.9.4.3. Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR). Analysis shall support the
following ‘end-state’ capabilities:
17.6.9.4.3.1. Provide accurate and timely ISR of Conventional Targets/Objects of Interest –
Analysis of systems and procedures for theater-focused, theater-tailored, cost-effective systems
to monitor stationary and moving air/ground/sea assets. This analysis supports the development
of a persistent, all-weather, day/night near real-time capability to identify and track mobile
targets, wide-area imaging, and high-resolution terrain mapping. This analysis includes
investigation of capability to locate and characterize camouflaged and hardened deeply buried
targets.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                          88


17.6.9.4.3.2. Provide accurate and timely ISR of Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear,
and High-Explosive (CBRNE) Events – Analysis of space-based systems and procedures for
theater-focused, theater-tailored, and cost-effective detection, characterization and tracking of
CBRNE use by enemy forces.
17.6.9.4.3.3. Provide accurate and timely ISR of Launch/Missile Events – Analysis supporting
this part of the ISR mission is performed by the Force Applications Analysis Branch (A9AA).
This arrangement came about as an effort to consolidate expertise on foreign missiles and launch
vehicles into the same branch responsible for analysis of AFSPC missile forces.
17.6.9.4.4. Environmental Monitoring (EM). Analysis shall support the following ‘end-state’
capabilities:
17.6.9.4.4.1. Leverage national and international weather monitoring systems. Analysis
supporting the exploitation of existing operational or planned environmental monitoring systems
worldwide and the tailoring of resulting data to global and theater weather forecasting
requirements.
17.6.9.4.4.2. Provide timely and accurate terrestrial environmental information. Analysis of
military space systems that monitor weather on Earth potentially affecting the warfighter. In
addition to atmospheric state parameters (temperature, pressure, wind, humidity, cloud cover and
precipitation), this includes surface (land and sea) and sub-surface environmental phenomena
(e.g. deep ocean conditions, sea state, ice/snow cover, and ground cover).
17.6.9.4.4.3. Provide space environmental data. Analysis of specific military system
vulnerabilities to the space environment. Space ‘weather’ data pertains to the entire realm
between Earth and the sun, including Earth’s upper atmosphere, ionosphere, magnetosphere, and
the sun (e.g. solar eruptive events, solar electromagnetic spectra and solar wind).
17.6.9.4.4.4. Provide global weather/environmental coverage. Analysis of both terrestrial and
space environmental information leading to global coverage at a sufficient spatial and temporal
resolution to meet the requirements for atmospheric and space environmental forecasting.
17.6.10. Space Support Branch (A9AS). Serves as command focal point for space support
analyses, including spacelift operations, integrated satellite operations, and on-orbit
support/transfer. Directly supports customer requirements in space support mission areas by
conducting, leading, and leveraging technical studies. Assess combat effectiveness, operational
impact, military worth, and military utility in the space support mission area. Provide space
support technical expertise for AoAs and the IPP. Provide analysis support to operations,
requirements, and planning processes within HQ AFSPC.
17.6.10.1. Spacelift Operations.
17.6.10.1.1. Routine Launch. Supports AFSPC efforts to improve routine small, medium and
heavy spacelift affordability and reliability through analysis of requirements in support of
integrated planning processes for spacelift operations.
17.6.10.1.2. Responsive Launch. Supports AFSPC efforts to develop responsive spacelift
capability in support of contingency requirements, crisis and war. Perform analyses of systems
and procedures for sortie generation, mission execution and recovery operations. Evaluate
military worth and military utility of prospective responsive spacelift capability.
17.6.10.1.3. Launch Traffic Control Operations. Provides analysis of systems and procedures to
reduce current range operating costs and expand capability to support responsive launch
operations. Provide analysis to support National Security Space launch and test assets to,
through and from space through the entire spectrum of conflict for both preplanned and crisis
action requirements.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                             89


17.6.10.2. Integrated Satellite Operations. Provide analysis of requirements, systems and
operations to conduct launch, early orbit, and anomaly resolution (LEO&A), space vehicle
telemetry, tracking, and command (TT&C), operations planning and analysis, resource
allocation, and operations training. Evaluate military worth and military utility of satellite
operations systems supporting warfighter efforts.
17.6.10..3. On-Orbit Support/Transfer. Provide analysis of requirements, systems and concepts
to provide future on-orbit support. Assesses combat effectiveness, operational impact, military
worth, and military utility to reposition, service, and recover on-orbit space assets with the
potential to significantly increase space vehicle operational life and/or capability. The applicable
requirements directing the A9A support include Per CSAF A-Staff Guidance, JCIDS Process,
CJCSI 6210.01A, SD 523-2, SD-515-2, OSD/AS&C ACTD requirements/guidelines.
17.6.11. Analytic Agenda Office Branch (A9AX).
17.6.11.1. Responsible for establishing the space analysis processes, methodology, team
structure, and execution during major Title X (multiple-service) wargames.
17.6.11.2. Leads and coordinates all AoA studies as supported within HQ AFSPC/A9.
Responsible to ensure effectiveness analysis supporting HQ AFSPC/A5 is conducted to the
highest standards, which is reflected through the Air Force Office of Aerospace Studies (OAS)
evaluation process to the Air Force Requirements Operational Capability Council (AFROCC).
17.6.11.3. Is responsible for working with AF/A9F and A9I on the OSD Plans, Analysis, and
Evaluation (PA&E) Analytic Agenda process. Coordinates with Air Staff and OSD Plans,
Analysis, and Evaluation (PA&E) on Analytic Baseline Operational Assessments that affect
space systems analysis. Provides information from these studies to HQ AFSPC/A8/9, SMC, and
SIDC analysts for their comparative use.
17.6.11.4. As MAJCOM lead for AF scenario development, is responsible for working with
OSD PA&E, Joint Staff/Force Structure, Resources & Assessments (JS/J8), Air Force/Strategic
Plans & Programs (AF/A8X), Air Force/Analyses and Assessments (AF/A9A) and Air
Force/Analyses Foundations & Integration (AF/A9I), National Air and Space Intelligence Center
(NASIC), and other MAJCOM directorates and organizations to support JS Defense Planning
Scenarios (DPS), Multi-Service Force Deployment (MSFD) development.
17.6.11.5. Works with SMC/XR to maintain organization coordination for ongoing studies
affecting AFSPC and the System Program Offices (SPOs). Assists in establishing analytic
methodologies consistent with the AFSPC corporate process to minimize competing studies with
conflicting conclusions. The applicable requirements directing the A9AX support include CJCSI
3170.e, AFI 10-601, Capabilities Based Requirements Development, AFI 10-604, Capabilities-
Based Planning, AFI 10-230, Conduct of Key Exercises and Experiments, AFI 10-2305,
Wargaming, AFI 90-11XX (Draft), AFI 14-206, Modeling and Simulation, AFPD 10-23, Air
Force Innovation Program, DODD 5134.9, Missile Defense Agency (MDA), DODI 5000.2,
Defense Acquisition System, DODI 8260.01, Support for Strategic Analysis, OAS AoA
Handbook, HQ AFSPC/A5 AoA Policy Memo, Air Force Transformation Flight Plan FY03-07.
17.7. Force Structure Analyses Division (A9F). Conducts optimization analysis and military
utility analysis to support the AFSPC capability leads, AFSPC corporate structure, 14 AF, and
20AF.
17.7.1 Capability Assessments Branch (A9FA). Provide persistent, inherent, quick-turn MUA
capability (i.e. domain knowledge, tools, and infrastructure) to respond to AFSPC operational
(e.g., 14 AF) and AFSPC Corporate issues that require analytic support to address mission
impacts.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                        90


17.7.1.1. Elicit, anticipate, and respond to MUA questions for all capability leads and mission
areas and at multiple levels (engagement, mission, and campaign)
17.7.1.2. Serve as AFSPC MUA institutional/corporate knowledge
17.7.1.3 Develop and maintain campaign through engagement level MUA expertise, and have
working knowledge of standard models and simulations.
17.7.1.4 Supports analysis needs for AFSPC space wargames, such as the Schriever and Air
Force Futures series.
17.7.1.5 Supports analysis and analysis knowledge management needs for AFSPC exercises.
17.7.1.6. Establishes requirements for operational model development and implementation for
course-of-action analysis, as needed.
17.7.2. Strategy and Policy Branch (A9FI):
17.7.2.1 Responsible for AFSPC’s input to the Air Force Modeling and Simulation Resource
Repository.
17.7.2.2. Develops M&S policy to support the command’s corporate process.
17.7.2.2.1. Develops and implements the MS&A master plan for AFSPC.
17.7.2.2.2. Advocate for the funding of common-use M&S Resources.
17.7.2.3. Responsible for MS&A verification, validation, and accreditation (VV&A) policy.
17.7.2.4 Ensures AFSPC M&S development supports the Air Force M&S strategy and
architecture.
17.7.2.5. Provide web-based space-focused analysis resources via the Space Analysis Resource
Portal (SARP).
17.7.2.5.1. Authoritative data for M&S.
17.7.2.5.2. Information archive for M&S tool used to support space programs.
17.7.2.5.3. Enhanced information on M&S tools in the SATK.
17.7.2.5.4. Archives of prior analyses, e.g. reports, study plans, accreditation reports.
17.7.3. Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Development Branch (A9FM). Develops and
manages AFSPC M&S capability.
17.7.3.1. Consolidates M&S capabilities and requirements to establish current capabilities and
prioritize M&S enhancements and new M&S development efforts.
17.7.3.2. Produces HQ AFSPC M&S Investment Plan.
17.7.3.3. Respond to AF and DoD M&S proposal requests to obtain additional funding.
17.7.3.4. Maintains the Space Analysis Toolkit (SAT).
17.7.3.5. Monitors joint and Air Force analysis model development to assure space capabilities
are represented correctly.
17.7.3.6. Participates in appropriate model user groups to support model management and
development.
17.7.4. Planning and Programming Analysis Branch (A9FP). Conduct analyses to support
AFSPC planning and programming decisions by assessing the cost/effectiveness of the AFSPC
and Air Force budgets.
17.7.4.1. Analysis for the Planning & Programming portion of the Planning, Programming,
Budgeting & Execution (PPBE) system. Coordination and management of analysis for the
AFSPC Integrated Planning Process (IPP) and Program Objective Memorandum (POM).
17.7.4.2. AFSPC Center of Excellence for Value Modeling: Provide analytic expertise to
support technically sound, defensible, and executable value models.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                        91


17.7.4.3. AFSPC Center of Excellence for Optimization Analysis: Produce optimal mixes of
current and programmed systems, future concepts, and acquisition/deactivation schedules that
satisfy needs, subject to task priorities and budget constraints.
17.7.4.4. Conduct Cost Analysis and Estimation. Coordinate and conduct cost analyses for
Acquisition Analysis of Alternative (AoAs) and PPBE activities.
17.7.4.5. Monitor and support Logistics Sustainment Predictive Analysis (LSPA) for A4.
Ensure analytically sound and cost-effective methodology to determine logistics support for
AFSPC ground systems
17.7.5. Resource Analysis Branch (A9FR):
17.7.5.1. Provides A9 financial management duties (budgeting, execution, and program
planning).
17.7.5.2. Provides A9 contract management duties, to include acquisition planning, contract
solicitations (CAASETA and non-CAASETA), contract administration, program management,
and quality assurance evaluation responsibilities.
17.7.5.3. Provides Scientific and Technical (STINFO) Program Manager duties to enhance the
sharing and re-use of DoD information, to include managing data distribution, library, and
science and technology issues.
17.7.5.3.1. Manage the MAJCOM Scientific and Technical Information (STINFO) Program
IAW AFI 61-204. Program enhances the sharing and re-use of DoD information, to include:
managing secondary data distribution, technical library storage, and science and technology
issues as they apply to STINFO.
17.7.5.4. Manages/monitors A9 security issues, to include SCIF security, facility security, and
personnel security.
17.7.5.5. Plans for A9 data processing and IT requirements, including common architectures for
office equipment, basic and high-performance analytic computing, classified processing and
secure communications, and the use of advanced analysis and M&S architectures.
17.7.5.5.1. Responsible for the Information Systems Security and security of networks.
17.7.5.5.2. Acts as the COMSEC Responsibility officer to allow classified network connectivity.
17.7.5.5.3. Manages the SIPRNET.
17.7.5.5.4. Equipment manager for all ADPE and base equipment items.
17.7.5.5.5. Manages and monitors work request submitted to host base for implementation of
computer based software and equipment.
17.7.5.6. Manages the AFSPC Virtual Analysis Capability (AVAC) classified and unclassified
network to include processing, upgraded, networking, and administrative management.
17.7.5.6.1. Procuring and upgraded network infrastructures and software, hardware peripherals.
17.7.5.6.2. Day to day operations and maintenance of user computers.
17.7.5.6.3. Designing and implementing network upgrades to users.
17.7.5.7. Provides A9 administrative support to include personnel support, time card
management and supplies and services using GPC.
17.7.5.7.1. Telephone maintenance and management.
17.7.5.7.2. Operates the Video Teleconferencing Center.
17.7.5.8. Provides Facility Management duties for A9.
17.7.5.9. The applicable requirements directing the A9R support include Per AFH 31-602,
Industrial Security Program, AFI 10-1101, Operations Security, AFSPC SUP 1 to AFI 10-1101,
AFI 10-2001, Defense Counterinformation Planning, Operations and Assessment, AFI 31-401,
Information Security Program Management, AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                           92


Management, AFPD 10-11, Operations Security, AFPD 10-20, Air Force Defensive
Counterinformation Operations, OI 31-17, DOD 5200.2R, Information Security Program, DOD
5205.2, DoD Operations Security (OPSEC) Program, DOD 5220.22M, National Industrial
Security Program Operating Manual, DOD 5200.1-PH, Classified Information Nondisclosure
Agreement (SF-312), JP 3-54, Joint Doctrine for Operations Security, AFSPC FM Guidance, 21
CONS Guidance, Self Inspection Guide, NSDD-298, National Operations Security Program.
17.8. Lessons Learned Division (A9L). Develop, execute, and monitor the Air Force Lessons
Learned Program (AFL2P) for Air Force Space Command (AFSPC).
17.8.1. Provide lessons learned guidance and procedures for the AFL2P for AFSPC to include
standards for major activities.
17.8.2. Identify an OCR at each AFSPC echelon for the AFL2P.
17.8.3. Serve as the AFSPC lessons learned advisor.
17.8.4. Ensure the accomplishment of collections and after action reports (AARs) for major
operations, contingencies, key exercises and experiments, and other significant events and topics
identified by AFSPC leadership. Approved AARs will also be posted into the AF-Joint Lessons
Learned Information System (JLLIS), either directly or by forwarding to AF/A9L.
17.8.5. Establish observation reporting procedures for subordinate AFSPC units in accordance
with applicable Air Force directives.
17.8.6. Establish an AFSPC lesson review process to facilitate the validation and sharing of
lessons identified/learned with the widest possible audience.
17.8.7. Share AFSPC lessons learned products through the AF-JLLIS and provide observation
inputs to other MAJCOMs as well as NAFs and lower echelons within AFSPC.
17.8.8. Support the Joint Lessons Learned Program (JLLP) by acting as the AFSPC component
lesson learned liaison to US Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM).
17.8.9. Provide AFSPC inputs to AF/A9L for CSAF-directed lessons learned collections.
17.8.10. Participate with HAF, other MAJCOM, DoD, and other Component NAF lessons
learned agencies in developing lessons using standardized formats, collection procedures, and
report generation. Additionally, facilitate the expedient up-channeling of AARs and identified
lessons through the AFLP and USSTRATCOM or AF chain of command as appropriate.
17.8.11. Work with AFSPC A-Staff and other staff entities (i.e., JA, PA, etc) planning teams to
incorporate applicable observation insights so as to support all levels of war, peacetime/natural
disaster crisis/contingency operations, and homeland defense/security operations, as appropriate.
Additionally, work with AFSPC assessment teams across all functional areas and the Air Force
Doctrine Development and Education Center (AFFDDEC) to assess and evaluate new
operational concepts and coordinate air, space and cyberspace operational strategy.
17.9. Technology Assessment Office (A9T). Conducts scientific analysis and technical
coordination across AFSPC mission areas in support of current and future space capabilities and
provides technical information and advice to senior staff officials to aid in command decision
making process.
17.9.1. Responsible for providing credible analysis and technical advice supporting future space
capabilities.
17.9.1.1. Serves as the AFSPC scientific advisor to command staff on space Science and
Technology (S&T) issues.
17.9.1.2. Coordinates technical linkage of 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3 R&D.
17.9.1.3. Provides technical advice to foster the transition of technology into the development of
new space systems or improvements of existing space systems.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                       93


17.9.2. Develops and maintains technical coordination with space research community.
17.9.2.1. Organizes and conducts S&T scientific analysis workshops and participates in and
supports professional societies to facilitate innovative S&T in support and future space
capabilities.
17.9.2.2. Provides scientific and technical interface with AFOSR, AFRL, NASA, NRO,
DARPA, NOAA, NGA, NRL, ONR, ARL, and ARO.
17.9.2.3. Develops internal think tank using expertise from A3, A5, A8, and SIDC to examine
and develop future capabilities.
17.9.3. Supports the AFSPC Science and Engineering (S&E) Career Management program.
17.9.3.1. Member of the University of Colorado, Colorado Springs (UCCS) and United States
Air Force Academy (USAFA) interface program.
17.9.3.2. Establishes required S&E expertise supporting AFSPC space capabilities.
17.9.3.3. Recruits and maintains credible AFSPC S&E workforce.
17.10. Chief Analyst (A9Z).
17.10.1. Provides analytical support to the Commander, Air Force Space Command, to
headquarters staff agencies, and to the command's component wings and number air forces.
17.10.2. Oversees the analytical work of a 57-person organization.
17.10.3. Serves as the functional manager for the military operations analysts (61SxA) across
Air Force Space Command.
17.10.4. Serves as the command's primary analytical interface to Air Force headquarters, major
commands, and numbered Air Forces.




                                           WILLIAM E. HAMPTON, Colonel, USAF
                                           Director of Manpower, Personnel and Services
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                            94


                                         Attachement A

                        NUMBERED AIR FORCES AND CENTERS

A1. Fourteenth Air Force (14 AF) (AFSTRAT):
A1.1. 14 AF (AFSTRAT) is a subordinate Component-NAF (C-NAF) to HQ AFSPC and is the
mission-execution organization for space. 14 AF (AFSTRAT) executes responsibilities for space
operations (including supporting intelligence and communications) at the operational and tactical
level.
A1.2.     The C-NAF is a lean organization focused on delivering combat effects to
CDRUSSTRATCOM. HQ AFSPC supports the C-NAF through robust reachback support,
effective lines of communication and responsive staff action.
A1.3. CSAF has designated 14 AF as the USAF space component (AFSTRAT) to
USSTRATCOM. 14 AF (AFSTRAT) executes assigned missions and operates space forces as
part of JFCC-Space, fitting the model where an operational AF Commander has two lines of
authority: one to the “provisioning” Commander (MAJCOM Commander) and Service, and the
other to the mission executing CCDR. Even though 14 AF (AFSTRAT) is an Air Force entity,
the commander is also dual-hatted as Commander, JFCC-Space, directly reporting to
CDRUSSTRATCOM and with a separate joint staff.
A1.4. The AFSTRAT arrangement formalizes the relationship for Joint space requirements,
policy, employment, sustainment and concepts between the “provisioner” (USAF/AFSPC) and
the CCDR. To accomplish space missions, 14 AF (AFSTRAT) is assigned two space launch
wings and three space operations wings. Functionally, these wings are supported and sustained
by HQ AFSPC with 14 AF (AFSTRAT) “skipped” but monitoring and knowledgeable.
A1.5. Though COMAFSPC is the COMAFFOR of forces assigned to USSTRATCOM,
operational responsibilities are delegated to 14 AF (AFSTRAT)/CC for ongoing space
operations. Using this structure, the COMAFFOR presents space forces to USSTRATCOM
through 14 AF (AFSTRAT).
A1.6. The 614 Air and Space Operations Center (AOC) is directly subordinate to 14 AF
(AFSTRAT) and is the C2 center for the C-NAF. The 614 AOC forms the core of the Joint
Space Operations Center (JSpOC) which serves as the C2 center for the Commander, JFCC-
Space.
A2.      Twentieth Air Force (20 AF).
A2.1. 20 AF is a subordinate NAF to HQ AFSPC. 20 AF executes responsibilities for ICBM
operations, maintenance, security, safety and nuclear surety at the operational and tactical level.
A2.2. The NAF is a lean organization focused on delivering combat capability to
CDRUSSTRATCOM. HQ AFSPC supports the NAF through robust reachback support and
effective lines of communication.
A2.3. 20 AF/CC is dual-hatted as the Commander, Task Force 214 (TF-214), reporting directly
to CDRUSSTRATCOM for the ICBM nuclear deterrence mission. CDRUSSTRATCOM
exercises Combatant Command (COCOM) of ICBM forces through the task force construct,
with TF-214 providing ICBM alert assets day-to-day. The 20 AF staff supports 20 AF/CC for
assigned operations, maintenance and security duties and the TF-214/CC for Operational Control
(OPCON) of ICBM and associated forces.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                          95


A2.4. To accomplish the nuclear deterrence mission, 20 AF is assigned three ICBM wings.
Functionally, these wings are supported and sustained by AFSPC with 20 AF “skipped” but
monitoring and knowledgeable.
A3. Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC).
A3.1. SMC designs, develops, acquires and sustains space and related systems and programs.
A3.2. The SMC/CC has two separate (but closely related) chains of authority, responsibility and
reporting: (1) as the AFPEO-Space reporting to the Defense and Service Acquisition Executives
(DAE/SAE); and (2) product center commander reporting to COMAFSPC. These chains are
shown in Figure 2.
A3.2.1. In the acquisition chain, the AFPEO-Space (SMC/CC) executes National Security Space
programs under the direction of the SAE in accordance with statutory and regulatory
requirements and DoD and AF policy. The AFPEO-Space is accountable for all programs
assigned to him that are executed by the SMC Systems Wings, 526th ICBM Systems Group (526
ICBM SG), 850th Space Surveillance/Missile Warning Group, and the MILSATCOM Terminals
Office and reports directly to the DAE/SAE and other DoD acquisition officials as required.
Program execution roles and responsibilities include formulating programs and system solutions
derived from COMAFSPC capability needs and requirements, as well as defining, budgeting and
managing resources provided by AFSPC (and other supported organizations such as NRO and
NASA) for successful program execution.              The AFPEO-Space establishes contractual
relationships with industry to execute programs and manages/monitors contract execution.
A3.2.2. In the USAF product center chain, the SMC/CC receives requirements from
COMAFSPC which have been refined, validated and programmed in concert with HQ USAF.
SMC also executes typical administrative control (ADCON) responsibilities for which they
receive administrative, resource and other support from HQ AFSPC. Other responsibilities
include organizing, training and equipping the Center for successful mission execution to include
recruiting, training and retaining a qualified acquisition workforce. SMC implements critical
processes, standards and best practices in systems engineering, program management, financial
management, contracting, mission assurance, specifications and standards, and develops and
manages capabilities and competencies for life cycle management of AF space systems.
A3.3. The SMC/CC is responsible and accountable to COMAFSPC for delivering space
capabilities to perform AFSPC missions.            This includes establishing and maintaining
Development Plans and Systems Roadmaps as well as establishing overall space system
sustainment and industrial base viability strategies in coordination with AFMC.
A3.4. SMC plays a critical role in translating AFSPC operational requirements and concepts into
systems/technical requirements and executable programs that meet cost, schedule, and
performance and risk objectives. SMC proposes and defines systems and programs that provide
the capabilities to meet established requirements with COMAFSPC serving as the final decision
authority for approving system definition.           As the COMAFFOR to USSTRATCOM,
COMAFSPC ensures that supported CCDR requirements and integrated priorities are met (with
appropriate interface with the USAF and Joint processes) while staying in concert with CSAF
and SECAF direction and USAF and AFSPC priorities.
A3.5. Once acquisition programs begin, any needed operational requirements, schedule and
budget/funding trades are proposed by AFPEO-Space/SMC, synchronized and orchestrated
under the leadership of HQ AFSPC, and approved by COMAFSPC. This process prevents
introduction of new requirements into approved program baselines (“requirements creep”)
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                           96


without specific approval from COMAFSPC. SMC/CC keeps COMAFSPC informed of
program progress via periodic, formal program reviews.
A3.6. SMC also performs a critical role in the launch, operational checkout and transfer of
operational space capabilities to 14 AF (AFSTRAT). This role is different from the aircraft
model where the operating command “accepts” an aircraft at the factory after successful flight
testing. For space systems, authority, responsibility, accountability and resources for placing
capability on-orbit are ultimately aligned under COMAFSPC. The SMC commander has
contractual and Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) responsibility for the
launch system through satellite vehicle separation and the satellite through on-orbit delivery.
The 14 AF (AFSTRAT)/CC is responsible for launch day execution, public safety, range
support, collision avoidance analysis, satellite control network support and operational
execution. SMC/CC exercises overall authority, responsibility and accountability for space
system flight worthiness until the system is formally transferred to 14 AF (AFSTRAT)/CC on
orbit.
A3.7. SMC is the single focal point for life cycle management of space systems logistics and
sustainment functions for AFPEO-Space delivered systems. Sustainment is the planning,
programming and executing of a support strategy for a system, subsystem or major end item to
maintain operational capabilities from system fielding through disposal. The SMC Space
Logistics Group (SLG) is responsible for coordinating logistics and maintenance activities for all
AFSPC space (non-ICBM) systems.
A4. Space Innovation and Development Center (SIDC). The SIDC/CC reports to
COMAFSPC and directly supports the USAFWC/CC for training, operational test activities,
integration of combat capabilities and tactics development. SIDC also performs space
experimentation as assigned, rapid prototyping and tactical exploitation of emerging
technologies through Air Force Tactical Exploitation of National Capabilities (AF TENCAP);
plans, supports and executes exercises and wargames; performs specialized analysis; and
develops advanced space modeling tools.
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                 97




                                    Attachement B

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

Executive Order 12196, Occupational Safety and Health Programs for Federal Employees, 26
February 1980
Public Law (P.L.) 91-596, Occupational Safety and Health Act, 29 December 1970
Public Law (Pol) 92-573, Consumer Product Safety Act, 12 October 1972
29 Code of Federal Regulations, Occupational Safety and Health Standards, 1960
NSS 03-01 National Security Space Acquisition Policy, 6 October 2003
NSDD-298, National Operations Security Program, 22 January 1998
UFC 3-260-1, Airfield Heliport Planning and Design, 19 August 2005.
DoDI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, 19 August 1998
DoDI 6055.4, DoD Traffic Safety Program, 20 July 1994
DoDI 6055.7, Accident Investigation, Reporting, and Record Keeping, 1 April 2004
DoDD 3150.2, DoD Nuclear Weapon System Safety Program Manual, 23 December          1996
DoD 6055.9, Ammunition and Explosives Safety Standards, 1 July 1999
DoDD 3100.10, Space Policy, 9 July 1999
DoDD 3200.11, Major Range and Test Facility Base-Summary of Capabilities, 27
    December 2007
DODI 5000.2, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System , 12 May 2002
DOD 5205.2, DoD Operations Security (OPSEC) Program, 6 March 2006
DOD 5220.22M, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual, 1 February 2006
DOD 5200.1-PH, Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement (SF-312), 26 May     2000
DOD 5200.2R, Information Security Program, 14 January 1997
JP 3-54, Joint Doctrine for Operations Security, 24 January 1997
Military Standard 882C, Standard Practice for System Safety, 10 February 2000
AFPD 10-11, Operations Security, 31 May 2001
AFPD 10-20, Air Force Defensive Counterinformation Operations, 1 October 1998
AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program, 15 March 2004
AFI 10-204, Readiness Exercises and After Action Reporting Program, 12 July 2002
AFI 10-1101, Operations Security, AFSPC SUP 1 to AFI 10-1101,
AFI 10-2001, Defense Counterinformation Planning, Operations and Assessment, 4
    October 2001
AFSPCI 10-260, Tactics Development Program, 1 April 2008
AFI 11-260, Tactics Development Program, 12 December 2003
AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program Management, 29 June 2005
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 63-1201, Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E), 1 February 2001
AFI 71-101V1, Criminal Investigations, 1 December 1999
AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety, and Occupatonal Health, 1 September 2004
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 22 November 2004
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         98


AFI 90-801, Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Councils, 25 March 2005
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Assessment, 1 April 2000
AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety, 13 February 2007
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 28 September 1993
AFI 91-101, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program, 19 December 2005
AFI 91-102, Nuclear Weapon System Safety Reviews, and Safety Rules, 28 July 2004
AFI 91-103, Air Force Nuclear Safety Design Certification Program, 16 Sep 2006
AFI 91-104, Nuclear Surety Tamper Control and Detection Programs, 28 February 2006
AFI 91-106, Unauthorized Launch and Launch Action Studies, 23 November 1993
AFI 91-107, Design, Evaluation, Troubleshooting and Maintenance Criteria for Nuclear
   Weapons Systems, 6 April 1994
AFI 91-108, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Intrinsic Radiation Safety Program, 29 November
1993
AFI 91-114, Safety Rules for the Intercontinental Ballistic Missile Systems, 3 April 2006
AFI 91-116, Safety Rules for Long-Term Storage and Maintenance Operations for
   Nuclear Weapons, 3 April 2006
AFI 91-117, Safety Rules For The Airborne Launch Control System, 14 April 2006
AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design And Evaluation Criteria For Nuclear Weapon Systems, 18
January 1994
AFSPC HOI 91-3, Numerical Index of Headquarters Publications, 4 March 1996
AFSPCCL 91-4, Safety Program (Ground Safety), 1 February 2007
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program,1 August 1998
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 22 May 2007
AFI 91-204;Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008-10-01
AFMAN 91-221, Weapons Safety Investigations and Reports, 18 June 2004
AFMAN 91-222, Space Safety Investigations and Reports, 9 August 2005
AFMAN 91-223, Aviation Safety Investigations and Reports, 6 July 2004
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, 18 October 2001
AFMAN 91-224, Ground Safety Investigations and Reports, 6 July 2004
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and          Health
(OSHA) Standards, 1 June 1996
AFSPCMAN 91-710V1-3, Range Safety User Requirements Manuals, 1 July 2004
AFSPCMAN 91-711, Launch Safety Requirements for Air Force Space Command
   Organizations, 1 February 2007
AFSPC Supplements to AFIs 91-202, 91-204

Abbreviations and Acronyms

3GIRS 3rd Generation Infrared Surveillance
14AF AFSTRAT Fourteenth Air Force,
20 AF Twentieth Air Force
ABSS Automated Business Services System
ACES Automated Civil Engineering System
AEF Air Expeditionary Force
AEHF Advanced Extremely High Frequency
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                      99


AFAA Air Force Audit Agency
AFCAIG Air Force Cost Analysis Improvement Group
AFFSC Air Force Financial Services Center
AFSAS Air Force Safety Automated System
AFSCN Air Force Satellite Control Network
AFSOC AF Safety Oversight Council,
AFSO21 - Air Force Smart Ops for the 21st Century
AoA Analysis of Alternatives
APCS Automated Purchase Card System
ARC Air Reserve Component
AFROCC Air Force Requirements for Operational Capabilities Council
ART AEF Reporting Tool
AF TENCAP Air Force Tactical Exploitation of National Capabilities
AT Anti-Terrorism
BES Budget Estimate Submission
BMDS Ballistic Missile Defense System
BRAC Base Realignment and Closure
CAWG Cost Analysis Working Group
CBRNE Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Explosive
CCIC2S Combatant Commander's Integrated C2 System.
CDD Capability Development Documents
CFETP Career Field Education and Training
CI Compliance Inspections
CL Command Leads
CPD Capability Production Documents.
CSAF - Chief of Staff, U.S. Air Force
CSAT Constellation Sustainment Assessment Teams
CTL Consolidated Test List
C2 Command and Control
DCPS Defense Civilian Pay System
DEAMS Defense Enterprise Accounting and Management System
DFAS Defense Finance and Accounting Service
DMSP Defense Meteorological Satellite Program
DOC Designed Operational Capabilities
DoD Department of Defense
DOTMLPF Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership, Personnel and
   Facilities
DSCS Defense Satellite Communications System
DSOC Defense Safety Oversight Council
DTRA Defense Threat Reduction Agency
DTS Defense Travel System
EA Emergency Actions
EELV Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle
EMR European Midcourse Radar
EPR Enlisted Performance Review
EPS Enhanced Polar System
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                           100


FMB Financial Management Board
FMS Foreign Military Sales
FOC Full Operational Capability
FP Force Protection
FPWG Force Protection Working Group
FWG Financial Working Group
FYDP Future Years Defense Program
GAO General Accounting Office
GBS Global Broadcast Service
GMD Ground-Based Midcourse Defense
GWOT - Global War on Terror
HMRP Hazardous Materials Response Plan
HQ AFSPC - Headquarters, Air Force Space Command
HQ NSSI Headquarters National Security Space Institute
HUSIR Haystack Ultra-wideband Satellite Imaging Radar
IBD Integrated Base Defense
ICBM - Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
ICD Initial Capabilities Documents
ID Implementation Directive
IMA Individual Mobilization Augmentees
IMDS Integrated Maintenance Data System
IOC Initial Operational Capability
ISSA Integrated Space Situational Awareness
ITW/AA NORAD/USSTRATCOM Integrated Tactical Warning and Attack Assessment
ITW/AA C2 Air Warning & Battle Management, Missile Warning, Space
   Surveillance/Warning
IWIMS Interim Work Information Management System
JCIDS Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JER Joint Ethics Regulation
JLLIS Joint Lessons Learned Information System
JROC Joint Requirements Oversight Council
LSPA Logistics Sustainment Predictive Analysis
MILSATCOM Military Satellite Communications
MRP Mishap Review Panel
NAF Non-appropriated funds
NDS Nuclear Detection System
NPOESS National Polar-orbiting Operational Environment Satellite System
NRO National Reconnaissance Office
NSI Nuclear Surety Inspections
NUWAIX Nuclear-Radiological Incidents- Nuclear Weapon Accidents/Incidents
O&M Operations and Maintenance
OER Officer Performance Report
OPLAN Operations Plans
OPORD Operations Orders
ORF Official Representation Funds
ORI Operational Readiness Inspections
OSCARS Operational Satellite Constellation Availability and Reliability Simulation
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009                                                        101


QAE Quality Assurance Evaluation
PB President’s Budget
PEM Program Element Manager
POM Program Objective Memorandum
PPBS Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System
PROTAF Project Task Forces
PSRE Minuteman Propulsion System Rocket Engine
RAIDRS Space C2, and the Rapid Attack Identification Detection Reporting System
REACT Rapid Execution and Combat Targeting
RDT&E - Research, Development, Test and Evaluation
REMIS Reliability and Maintainability Information System
RL Requirements Lead
RTF Command Response Task Force
RTS Reserve Travel System
SAMP System Acquisition Management Plans
SATAF Site Activation Task Forces
SATCOM Satellite Communications System
SBIRS Space Based Infrared System
SBSS Space Based Surveillance System
SIDC Space Innovation and Development Center
SIO Senior Intelligence Officer
SMC Space and Missile Systems Center
SORTS Status of Resources and Training System
SSA Space Situational Awareness
SSAC Senior Safety Advisory Council,
SST Space Surveillance Telescope
STSS Space Tracking and Surveillance System
TEMP Test and Evaluation Master Plan
TSAT Transformational Satellite Communications
UEWR Upgraded Early Warning Radar
USSTRATCOM US Strategic Command
UTC Unit Type Codes
WAWF Wide Area Work Flow
WGS Wideband Global SATCOM
AFSPCI38-9 15 JANUARY 2009   102
