BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND MISSION
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                            DIRECTIVE 5-440

                                                                             22 MARCH 2013

                                                             Organization and Mission - Field

                                                 AIR FORCE SPECTRUM MANAGEMENT
                                                                  OFFICE (AFSMO)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFSPC/A3OP                                                Certified by: HQ AFSPC/A3
                                                                    (Maj Gen Jack Weinstein)
                                                                                     Pages: 4




This mission directive (MD) implements policy and guidance in Air Force Policy Directive
(AFPD) 10-1, Mission Directives, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-101, Format and Content of
Mission Directives, AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW)
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Upon mobilization, this mission directive also applies to AFSPC-gained Air National
Guard (ANG) units and members under USC Title 10 status. In addition, it applies to all AFSPC-
gained Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and members.


1. Mission. AFSMO plans, provides and preserves access to the radio frequency spectrum for
the Air Force and selected Department of Defense (DoD) activities in support of national policy
objectives, systems development, and global operations through analysis and negotiation with
international and national, civil and military organizations
2. Command. The Commander, AFSMO:
   2.1. Reports directly to AFSPC/CC.
 2                                                            AFSCMD5-440 22 MARCH 2013


     2.2. Communicates directly with staff, Federal Government agencies, private sector entities,
     and international organizations on tasks for which AFSMO is responsible.
3. Responsibilities. The Commander, AFSMO:
     3.1. Serves as office of primary responsibility (OPR) for Air Force spectrum management.
     3.2. Acts as Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Spectrum Management Office supporting
     programs throughout their life cycle, including the development of spectrum requirements
     generated at HAF, which affects the Air Force as a whole.
     3.3. Develops and implements DoD, national, and international spectrum management
     guidelines and instructions to support the Air Force mission.
     3.4. Monitors spectrum developments in DoD, national, and international arenas. Evaluates
     impact on Air Force operations; research, development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E)
     programs; and spectrum-dependent systems acquisition efforts.
     3.5. Ensures Air Force spectrum use instructions and procedures comply with national and
     international telecommunications rules and regulations, and appropriate multinational and
     bilateral agreements.
     3.6. Provides spectrum engineering guidance to Air Force operational and functional
     communities to include acquisition, RDT&E, and logistics for certifying and licensing
     spectrum-dependent systems.
     3.7. Provides radio frequency spectrum management procedural guidance to major
     commands (MAJCOM) and field activities.
     3.8. Develops, integrates, and manages the Air Force radio frequency spectrum management
     operational and system architecture in coordination with DoD and HAF.
     3.9. Represents, advocates, and defends Air Force interests in spectrum management matters
     on DoD, national, and international committees, groups, and organizations to include, but not
     limited to:
        3.9.1. The Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee (IRAC) of the National
        Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) and all IRAC
        subcommittees.
        3.9.2. The United States Military Communications-Electronics Board (USMCEB)
        Frequency Panel.
        3.9.3. The Combined Communications-Electronics Board Frequency Panel.
        3.9.4. The United States delegation to world radio communication conferences held by
        the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), and preparatory meetings held by the
        ITU, the NTIA, the Federal Communications Commission, and the Department of State.
     3.10. Provides allocation and assignment support for spectrum-dependent systems to
     MAJCOMs and field activities.
     3.11. Serves as the Air Force focal point for input of data into the DoD frequency resource
     record system, the NTIA government master file, and the international frequency list of the
     Radio Communication Bureau.
AFSCMD5-440 22 MARCH 2013                                                                    3


  3.12. Serves as the OPR for the Air Force Electromagnetic Environmental Effects Program.
  3.13. Coordinates spectrum management actions that resolve mutual interference incidents
  involving Air Force, private sector, other federal agency, and non-US spectrum-dependent
  systems.
  3.14. Provides functional guidance to Air Force-sponsored DoD area frequency coordinators
  (AFC). Serves as the AFC for the Eastern United States for certain frequency bands.
  3.15. Provides spectrum management and host nation coordination support for DoD agencies
  and Combatant Commands as specified by the USMCEB Frequency Panel.
  3.16. Provides functional specialty management for the Air Force electromagnetic spectrum
  management career field.
  3.17. Chairs the Interservice Advisory Committee for curriculum input and support to the
  Electro-magnetic Spectrum Management and Joint Task Force Spectrum Management
  courses.
  3.18. Provides HQ AFSPC/A8/9 with programming data to support Program Objective
  Memorandum development and Financial Management (FM) budget data to support day-to-
  day operational execution.




                                         WILLIAM L. SHELTON, General, USAF
                                         Commander
 4                                                       AFSCMD5-440 22 MARCH 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives, 21 June 2002
AFI 10-101, Format and Content of Mission Directives, 12 February 2003
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 March 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
