                            DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND




                                                                          AFSPCGM2014-10-03

                                                                                     6 May 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR SEE DISTRIBUTION

FROM: HQ AFSPC/A3
      150 Vandenberg St Ste 1105
      Peterson AFB CO 80914-4170

SUBJECT: AFSPC Guidance Memorandum (GM) 10-03, Cyberspace Operations

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

       By Order of the Commander of Air Force Space Command, this is GM provides updated
guidance regarding Crew Force Management. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory.
To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force (or AFSPC or NAF)
publications; the information herein prevails, IAWAFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management. This GM provides updated guidance regarding tiered waiver requirements for unit
compliance items IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013.

       In advance of publication of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-1703 Volume 3, Cyberspace
Operations, the attachment to this memorandum provides guidance effective immediately; NAFs
have three months to publish supplemental guidance, as needed. Reference Air Force Policy
Directive (AFPD) 10-17, Cyberspace Operations, 31 July 2012.

        Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this memorandum are
maintained in accordance with AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.




                               GUARDIANS OF THE HIGH FRONTIER
        The guidance in this memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date
of this memorandum or upon publication of AFI 10-1703 Volume 3, whichever is earlier.




                                                  DAVID J. BUCK
                                                  Brigadier General, USAF
                                                  Director of Air, Space and
                                                   Cyberspace Operations
DISTRIBUTION:

HQ AFSPC/IGIOS
24 AF/A3/OV
AFRC/A6
NGB/A3
688 CW/CC
67 CW/CC




                                              1
                                          Attachment 1

1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. Scope. This instruction outlines the procedures applicable to the safe operation of
cyberspace weapon systems. Together with the complementary references at, this publication
applies to all members who operate Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) cyber weapon
systems. Personnel performing Cyberspace Operational Support functions will comply with
appropriate guidance in Methods and Procedures Technical Order (MPTO) 00-33A-1001,
General Communications Activities Management Procedures and Practice Requirements.
Cyberspace Combat Mission Ready (CMR) certification applies to 17D and 1B4 personnel who
completed Undergraduate Cyber Training/Cyber Defense Operations Course, 39 IOS IQT (if
available) and MQT, passed an evaluation and are certified by an appropriate certifying official.
CMR requirements may apply to additional personnel at selected units at the direction of HQ
AFSPC/A3. Nothing in this publication is meant to contradict Air Force Instructions (AFIs) or
Air Force Policy Directives (AFPDs).
1.2. Supplements. Numbered Air Force (NAF)/Wings/Groups/Squadrons may supplement
individual paragraphs of this memorandum to provide specific guidance to their aligned units in
accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. Headquarters AFSPC (HQ
AFSPC), Directorate of Air, Space and Cyberspace Operations (HQ AFSPC/A3) will review
and coordinate on all 24 AF supplements. Air Reserve Components (ARC) will provide a copy
of any approved supplement to HQ AFSPC/A3.
1.3. Crew Responsibility. In conjunction with other governing directives, this instruction
prescribes procedures for cyberspace systems under most circumstances, but it is not a substitute
for sound judgment or common sense. Nor are the procedures prescribed herein intended to
place all responsibility for mission success on the Crew Commander/Senior Crew Member. In
many cases, AFSPC cyberspace capabilities are required for adequate risk management and
mission assurance, but are not yet developed and/or fielded. As a general rule, operations or
procedures not specifically addressed may be accomplished if they enhance safe, effective
mission accomplishment and are approved for execution by appropriate command authorities.
1.4. References. This document is not a single source for cyberspace operations direction;
additional guidance is included in SECDEF Memorandum for CCDRs, “Transitional
Framework for Cyberspace Operations Command and Control” dated 1 May 2012. etc.
1.5. Deviations and Waivers. Unless otherwise specified in this document, HQ AFSPC/A3 is
the waiver authority for this instruction. Waiver authority may not be delegated below A3
Division Chief level. Waivers and permissions to deviate from these provisions will be granted
only in response to specific requests, and on a limited case-by-case basis as described below.
1.5.1. Deviations from these procedures require specific written approval unless an urgent
requirement, unforeseen/urgent events, or an emergency dictate otherwise, in which case the
Crew Commander/Senior Crew Member (or mission training instructor, if applicable), will take
appropriate action to safely resolve the situation, report the deviation to their chain of command
and document the incident.



                                                2
1.5.2. Submit waiver requests in memo or message format through 24 AF Operations and Plans
Directorate (24 AF/A3/5; 24AF.A3@us.af.mil) to HQ AFSPC/A3 through AFSPC/A3I
Workflow, afspc.a3i.wf@us.af.mil. Information in the waiver request will include, at a
minimum, the specific requirement to be waived, justification/rationale, and the proposed
waiver expiration date/time. 24 AF Operations Directorate (24 AF/A3/5) will recommend
approval or disapproval of all waiver requests.
1.5.3. Waivers, if approved, will be issued for a maximum of one year from the effective date.
1.5.4. ARC units will forward waiver requests through appropriate channels to the applicable
Major Command Operations Division (MAJCOM/A3), e.g., Air National Guard (ANG/A3), for
approval. Provide information copies of approved waivers to HQ AFSPC/A3 and ARC
MAJCOM OPRs for this guidance memorandum.
1.6. Changes and Clarifications. HQ AFSPC, Cyberspace Operations Division (HQ
AFSPC/A3I) has overall authority for administration of this instruction. Recommendations
for improving this guidance memorandum or requests for clarification are encouraged.
1.6.1. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR), HQ AFSPC/A3I, 150 Vandenberg St., Suite. 1105, Peterson
AFB, CO 80914-4170 or afspc.a3i.wf@us.af.mil using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Coordinate and route AF Forms 847 through the unit’s appropriate
chain of command.
1.6.2. Process requests for clarification via memorandum or message to HQ AFSPC/A3I
through 24 AF/A3/5. 24 AF will provide comments/position prior to forwarding.
1.6.2.1. If a clarification request was initiated by telephone, units will follow up in writing
within one working day.
1.6.2.2. HQ AFSPC/A3I will provide clarification to 24 AF/A3/5 for distribution.
1.7. Responsibilities.
1.7.1. HQ AFSPC will:
1.7.1.1. Serve as the lead MAJCOM and Management Headquarters (MHQ) for Air Force
cyberspace operations and serve as the Core Function Lead (CFL) staff for the Cyberspace
Superiority mission area. Develop departmental guidance and procedures for HAF release in
departmental publications IAW AFI 33-360.
1.7.1.2 Organize, train and equip Air Force cyberspace operational forces.
1.7.1.3. Comply with guidance in AFPD 10-17; specifically HQ AFSPC will: articulate,
document and obtain approval for cyberspace conceptual, technical, policy and professional
requirements, and convey them to Functional Authorities.
1.7.1.4. Provide strategic level guidance to the functional communities providing AF
cyberspace capabilities.



                                                 3
1.7.1.5. Develop and implement measures of effectiveness and performance for cyber
operations.
1.7.1.6. In coordination with Air Education and Training Command (AETC), develop and
implement programs to educate and train Airmen on cyberspace operations, including all aspects
of Offensive Cyberspace Operations (OCO), Defensive Cyberspace Operations (DCO) and DoD
Information Network (DoDIN) Operations. This training shall also include the employment of
related cyberspace capabilities (e.g., Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR),
Command and Control (C2), and Situational Awareness (SA) enabling systems), and the
integration of those capabilities within cyberspace and with capabilities of other military
domains.
1.7.1.7. Recommend organizational constructs which facilitate the integration of cyberspace
operational capabilities into Air Force and Joint warfighting components.
1.7.1.8. Define requirements for cyberspace operational capabilities.
1.7.1.9. Develop, coordinate, publish, implement and enforce network configuration
management guidelines, and standards.
1.7.2. 24 AF will:
1.7.2.1. Present organized, trained and equipped cyberspace forces to combatant commanders
(CCDRs) as directed.
1.7.2.2. Develop tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP) for the integration and employment
of cyberspace operational capabilities.
2. MISSION PLANNING
2.1. Responsibility. Individual crews, unit operations, and intelligence functions jointly share
responsibility for mission planning. The Crew commander/Senior Crew member is ultimately
responsible for all aspects of mission planning to include compliance with command guidance.
(T-1)
2.2. Procedures. Effective mission accomplishment requires thorough mission planning and
preparation. Failures in execution are often indicative of poor mission preparation, therefore
units will encourage thorough planning prior to every mission. General mission planning
considerations are addressed in AFTTP 3-1, General Planning, 2 February 2012, and CWO
specific planning consideration can be found in AFTTP 3-1, Cyber Warfare Operations, 26
April 2012, or other weapon system specific AFTTP 3-1 volumes. (T-1)
2.2.1. Units will accomplish sufficient planning to ensure successful mission accomplishment for
all phases of operations. At a minimum, mission planning includes mission objectives,
identifying and dealing with expected simulated/actual threats, weapons delivery (where
applicable), cancel/abort criteria and applicable Special Instructions (SPINS). Units will
maintain facilities where all information and materials required for mission planning are
available. (T-1)




                                                4
2.2.2. Unit staff will provide crews sufficient time and resources to accomplish crew mission
planning and mission briefing. Mission planning must be accomplished as a crew and, if
necessary, in a realistic training and/or mission rehearsal environment (if fielded/available) such
as that provided by an Enhanced Cyberspace Range (currently in development). Unit staff will
ensure other activities, such as recurring academic training, training device periods, additional
duties, etc., do not interfere with time allotted for mission planning and crew mission briefing.
The Crew Commander/Senior Crew Member is ultimately responsible for the proper conduct of
mission planning and must ensure sufficient time and materials are available to effectively plan
the mission. (T-1)
2.2.3. Squadrons tasked with a 24/7/365 mission will conduct mission planning a minimum of
once per AFCTO cycle (currently 7 days). Due to the unique nature of these missions, planning
will be performed by the Mission Commander (if applicable), Crew Commander, and
Package/Task Leads. The Crew Commander is responsible for ensuring the mission plan is
briefed to all crew members once completed.
2.2.4. Crew substitutions require unit operations officer or higher approval. (T-1)
2.2.4.1. Crew substitutions must be made with sufficient time for the substitute crew member(s)
to comply with all the provisions of this GM. (T-1)
2.3. Crew Mission Planning. Detailed crew mission planning ensures mission objectives are
understood by all crew members and an effective plan is developed to achieve those
objectives.
2.3.1. All crew members must be present during mission planning unless specifically excused
by the squadron operations officer or higher authority. The Crew Commander/Senior Crew
Member will: (T-1)
2.3.1.1. Direct detailed mission planning, including employment procedures. (T-1)
2.3.1.2. Review all crew and crew member training requirements and currency data and
schedule any outstanding items to the maximum extent possible. (T-1)
2.3.1.3. Review crew and weapon system restrictions for each activity planned. (T-1)
2.3.1.4. Plan an alternate mission/activity in the event equipment failure prevents accomplishing
the primary mission. (T-1)
2.3.2. The Crew Commander/Senior Crew Member is ultimately responsible for ensuring the
adequacy and completeness of all mission data and resources and must make risk determinations
to cancel or abort missions. The Crew Commander/Senior Crew Member must ensure crew
substitutions are made in time for the substitute crew member(s) to be thoroughly briefed and
familiar with the applicable mission data and to rehearse with the rest of the crew in realistic
range/training facilities, as required. (T-1)
2.4. Weapons and Tactics. Weapons and Tactics personnel will support the employment of
current/effective TTPs, the planning/briefing/execution/debriefing of missions, and
development of lessons learned reports. Weapons and Tactics personnel, in conjunction with



                                                  5
Training, Standardization/Evaluation, and Intelligence personnel, will also develop realistic
threat scenarios for specific mission profiles. These scenarios will be used during
continuation training and evaluation efforts.” (T-1)
2.5. Intelligence and Threat Study. During mission planning, crews will receive briefings
on threat type and capabilities. Crews will also review applicable TTPs to defeat/degrade
threats while still affecting reliable weapon delivery and/or network operations. In addition,
crews should receive a current intelligence briefing focused on recent adversary activity to
ensure all crew members are aware of the current operational environment. (T-1)
3. NORMAL OPERATIONS
3.1. Crew Logs. The Crew Log is the official record of events that occur during a crew shift
(live or simulated). The purpose of the log is to maintain an accurate and detailed record of all
significant events (including any deviations from guidance in this GM) pertaining to operations
occurring during each crew shift. Of primary importance are events that may result in
subsequent investigations. At a minimum, the log will include identification of on-duty
personnel, major operational activities, significant communications, major system degradations
and other abnormal system responses. (T-3)
3.2. Crew Information File (CIF). The CIF is required to ensure information essential to the
conduct of operations or emergency conditions is available. The CIF centralizes significant,
time-sensitive issues and ensures procedures are disseminated to operations personnel. The CIF
is used by Standardization and Evaluation personnel to pass critical operational information to
crew members. All crew members are required to review the CIF and acknowledge by signature
prior to beginning crew duties. (T-3)
3.3. Crew Shift/Mission Briefing. A mission briefing provides an overview of the
objectives and the plan to achieve them. A thorough briefing ensures all crew members
understand mission objectives.
3.3.1. The Crew Commander/Senior Crew Member will conduct a crew mission briefing and
rehearsals as necessary for all missions. (T-3)
3.3.2. A crew member excused from the mission briefing, or substituted following the briefing,
must receive a detailed briefing from the Crew Commander/Senior Crew Member (and be
afforded an opportunity to rehearse his/her role with other crew members, as required). (T-3)
3.3.3. The Crew Commander/Senior Crew Member must ensure prior arrangements are made to
create exercise scenarios in sufficient detail and accuracy to enable effective mission execution.
(T-3)
3.3.3.1. Mission crews will practice, mission plan and modify operational details according to
rehearsal results. (T-3)
3.3.3.2. When rehearsals confirm mission feasibility, the appropriate commander approves the
mission plan and authorizes execution. (T-3)




                                                6
3.3.4. Mission crews will execute the assigned mission(s) as directed, maintaining all necessary
ISR, C2/SA, and communications linkages. (T-3)
3.4. Shift/Mission Debriefing. The Crew Commander/Senior Crew Member will lead a
thorough mission debrief for every mission. The mission debrief will cover all aspects of the
mission and ensure all crew members receive feedback on improvement areas. (T-3)
4. CYBERSPACE SUPPORT AND ABNORMAL OPERATIONS
4.1. Operational Tests and Exercises. Exercising, testing and evaluating the crew force is
necessary to maintain proficiency and provides important data needed to validate the operation
of the weapon system.
4.1.1. Crew members will not jeopardize operational mission requirements to accomplish test or
exercise objectives. Real-world emergencies or priorities may require a crew to terminate, or
withdraw from a test or exercise. The Crew Commander/Senior Crew Member will coordinate
with the Unit Commander or Operations Officer and all other participating agencies to cancel,
postpone or withdraw from a test or exercise. When priority actions are complete, the crew may
be permitted to resume participation as approved by appropriate authorities. (T-3)
4.2. Operations Review Board (ORB). 24 AF will establish an ORB process for conducting
investigations to determine the cause of any mission failures or significant events, including,
abnormal system responses or trends. Examples of circumstances requiring an ORB include:
major system degradation, indications of erroneous system response/procedures with significant
mission impact and significant events where the cause cannot be determined by initial
assessment or when corrective action is beyond minimal retraining or minor procedural changes.
A significant, abnormal system response may include major hardware or software anomalies,
safety violations, or security deficiencies. (T-3)
4.2.1. The ORB convening authority is the 24 AF/A3/5 or the wing/group/squadron commander
at their respective organizational levels. Commanders serving no lower than squadron level, or
equivalent, or appointed in accordance with (IAW) AFI 51-604, Appointment To and
Assumption of Command, and AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, have the inherent authority
to investigate matters under their command. Higher-level commanders may initiate an
investigation preempting a lower-level inquiry. ORB composition is at the discretion of the
convening authority. A safety representative, as defined in AFI 91-202, The US Air Force
Mishap Prevention Program, is a mandatory participant for all ORBs. However, the safety
representative will determine the appropriate level of involvement. The convening authority will
inform 24 AF/CC, 24 AF/A3/5, 24 AF/JA and HQ AFSPC/A3I/A3T via memorandum when an
ORB is convened (electronic versions are acceptable). (T-3)

4.2.1.1. Units will forward their ORB report to 24 AF/A3/5. (T-3)
4.2.1.1.1. ORB reports will be approved at the next organizational level above the convening
authority. Send a copy of ORB reports to 24 AF, with information copies to HQ
AFSPC/A3I/A3T. Unclassified electronic versions are acceptable and should be sent to
afspc.a3i.wf@us.af.mil. Related classified information (up to SECRET) should be sent via
SIPRnet to afspc.a3i.wf@afspc.af.smil.mil. ORB minutes will not be released outside of
AFSPC without prior approval from either the HQ AFSPC/A3/CV/CC. (T-3)

                                                7
4.2.1.1.2. The report will contain the following information in official memorandum format and
in the specified order as prescribed by 24 AF/A3/5. (T-3)
4.2.1.1.2.1. Date the ORB convened and topic. (T-3)
4.2.1.1.2.2. Personnel participating in the ORB. Include rank, name, duty title, and telephone
number. If the safety representative determines their involvement is unnecessary, document the
name and other required information of the individual making the determination and in
parentheses state “determined safety involvement not necessary.” (T-3)
4.2.1.1.2.3. Sequence of events (time, locations, etc.). Only use crew positions to describe the
sequence of events. (T-3)
4.2.1.1.2.4. Mission Impact. Include a brief description of how the event impacted the primary
or secondary mission. If there is no impact, state “None.” (T-3)
4.2.1.1.2.5. Conclusion. Explain the cause(s) of the incident. (T-3)
4.2.1.1.2.6. Personnel Corrective Actions. Identify any crew members, but only by crew
positions, placed on restricted status or decertified as a result of the incident. Also include a
brief explanation of actions taken, to include additional training, to remove individuals from
restricted status/recertify individuals. (T-3)
4.2.1.1.2.7. Other Recommendations/Action Items. Explain actions, excluding personnel
corrective actions, taken to resolve the problem and preclude recurrence. Corrective actions
involving procedural or operational changes will be coordinated through the agency having
approval authority. Assign each recommendation/action item a unique tracking number,
identify the responsible agency for taking corrective measures, and establish an estimated
completion date. Also include a subject, describe actions taken to correct the deficiency, and
include a status block indicating if the item is open or closed. (T-3)
4.2.1.1.3. Provide status updates on all action items to 24 AF/A3/5 every 30 days after
submission of initial report until closed. Groups may combine multiple updates into one report
and forward by the end of each month until closed. (T-3)
4.2.2. Forward a copy of all ORB reports and minutes (to include classified reports, if
necessary) to HQ AFSPC Cyber Safety Division (SEC) at se.wf@us.af.mil. Classified
information (up to SECRET) should be sent via SIPRnet to se.wf@afspc.af.smil.mil. HQ
AFSPC/SEC will review all ORB reports to examine issues pertaining to Risk Management
(RM) to assess RM integration in tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs), analyze risk
control measures, ensure risk assessment and acceptance decisions are made at the appropriate
levels, etc. Any events with high severity, adverse impact and high probability of reoccurrence
may be considered for possible inclusion in the Air Force Safety Automated System (AFSAS).
(T-3)
4.3. Weapon System Deficiencies. The deficiency reporting, investigation and resolution
processes promote the ability to identify and correct deficiencies before they impact mission
capability. Successful implementation drives resolution decisions, tempered by total ownership



                                                  8
cost, to correct, mitigate and/or accept risk of conditions impacting operational safety, suitability
and effectiveness.
4.3.1. Once weapon system T.O.s are developed and published cyberspace weapon system
deficiencies will be handled IAW T.O. 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation,
and Resolution. (T-1)
5. REPORTS
5.1. Reporting Requirements. Capability Assessment and Reporting is vital to mission
planning and resource allocation of cyberspace assets. System Capability (SYSCAP) is a
continuous assessment of the capability of a system or program to perform its mission.
Operational Capability (OPSCAP) is a continuous assessment of the capability of the major
components of a system or program to perform the mission. SYSCAP and OPSCAP assessments
support real-time planning and serve as a measure of system capability. (T-1)
5.1.1. Units will conduct operational reporting IAW AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, and
AFSPCSUP1 and AFI 10-207, Command Posts, and AFSPSUP1. (T-1)
5.1.2. Units will report maintenance status IAW AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status and
Utilization Reporting. (T-1)
5.1.3. Each wing will develop specific criteria to define mission degradation and
SYSCAP/OPSCAP status changes. 24 AF/A3/5 is the final approval authority for these criteria.
(T-1)
5.1.4. Crew members are responsible for knowing applicable Commander’s Critical Information
Requirements and OPREP criteria. Units at the lowest level of command having knowledge of
an event/incident are responsible for reporting the event/incident immediately to their appropriate
command element. Crews will maintain applicable checklists, local procedures and crew aids to
facilitate reporting. (T-1)
5.1.5. Events/incidents meeting CCIR criteria will be reported to the 624 OC by the most
expedient means available. (T-1)
5.1.6. Events/incidents meeting OPREP criteria will be reported in OPREP channels thru the
host base Command Post. Specific operational event/incident reporting requirements, broken
down by category, are delineated in AFI 10-206, AFSPCSUP 1. These quick reference matrices
provide broad guidance but are not all-inclusive. Keep 624 OC informed of OPREP reporting.
(T-1)
5.1.7. Classification is not an impediment to reporting. Ensure all OPREP material submitted
via NIPRNET to a Command Post is unclassified. Classified inputs will be coordinated with
Command Post personnel and then transmitted by secure means. (T-1)
6. CHECKLISTS, LOCAL PROCEDURES AND CREW AIDS.
6.1. Crew members will strictly adhere to all checklists in a T.O, all unit generated checklists or
other higher headquarters (HHQ) directives. (T-3)



                                                  9
6.2. 24 AF/A3/5 is responsible for generating guidance to cover actions not addressed in a T.O.
or other directives. (T-3)
6.3. Units may develop local procedures specific to their mission when operations fall outside
existing T.O.s and HHQ guidance. Units will not supplement existing T.O.s with local
procedures. Local procedures will not be used to re-create or consolidate existing technical data
or HHQ guidance. (T-3)
6.4. Crew members may develop local crew aids such as charts, question banks, guides or
other visual aids and processes to bolster proficiency, enhance changeover briefings and to
ensure comprehensive tasks are completed correctly. However, these aids will not override or
be used in lieu of T.O.s and other directives. Squadron Commanders will review and
recommend approval/disapproval of all locally developed crew aids. Local crew aids will be
approved by the Group commander. (T-3)
6.5. Briefing Guides. Units will develop local briefing guides to ensure all necessary items are
covered prior to each mission. 24 AF/OV is responsible for determining minimum requirements
for these guides and ensuring standardization. (T-3)
6.5.1. Guides will contain abnormal-procedures guidance addressing mission accomplishment
with degraded/inoperative equipment. (T-3)
6.5.2. Guides will contain other information deemed necessary by individual units, i.e., local
training procedures, and procedures for notifying maintenance personnel of equipment
discrepancies. (T-3)
7. CREW FORCE MANAGEMENT
7.1. Crew Rest, Fatigue Management and Duty Limitations. This section prescribes
mandatory crew rest and maximum Duty Periods (DP) for all personnel who operate
cyberspace weapon systems. Basic guidance for fatigue management strategies and waiver
authority procedures are also addressed. (T-3)
7.1.1. These procedures may be waived by the appropriate group commander when a Risk
Management (RM) assessment determines mission requirements justify the increased risk.
Exception: when authorized by the appropriate group commander, the Crew
Commander/Senior Crew Member may extend the maximum DP up to two hours to
compensate for unplanned mission delays, provided the mission requirements justify the
increased risk. Extended DP must be annotated in the Mission Log, at a minimum detailing
authorizing agent (i.e., Crew Commander/Senior Crew Member, Unit Commander, etc.) and
crew members affected. (T-3)
7.1.2. Regardless of authorized DP, the Crew Commander/Senior Crew Member will restrict
duty time, extend crew rest periods or terminate a mission if safety may be compromised by
fatigue factors. (T-3)
7.1.3. DP begins when a crew member reports for a mission/shift, briefing, or other official
duty and ends when the mission is completed or when relieved by oncoming crew. (T-3)



                                               10
7.1.4. The crew rest period is normally a minimum 12-hour non-duty period before the DP
begins. Its purpose is to ensure the crew member is adequately rested before performing a
cyberspace mission or mission-related duties. Crew rest is free time, and includes time for
meals, transportation and rest. Rest is defined as a condition that allows an individual the
opportunity to sleep. (T-3)
7.1.4.1. Crew rest is compulsory for any crew member prior to performing any crew duty on
any mission system. (T-3)
7.1.4.2. Each crew member is individually responsible for ensuring they obtain sufficient rest
during crew rest periods. (T-3)
7.1.4.3. Any official business or duty that requires the active participation of a crew member,
not during the DP, interrupts the crew rest period. This includes official business conducted via
telephone or other electronic means. If crew rest is interrupted, individuals will inform a
supervisor and remove themselves from the mission schedule as directed by competent
authority. (T-3)
7.1.5. Exceptions to the 12-Hour Minimum Crew Rest Period. For continuous operations
when basic crew DPs are greater than 12 but less than 14 hours, subsequent crew rest may be
reduced proportionally to a minimum of 10 hours to maintain a 24-hour work/rest schedule with
Unit Commander approval. (T-3)
7.1.5.1. Continuous operations mean two or more consecutive DPs of at least 12 hours
duration separated by minimum crew rest. (T-3)
7.1.5.2. The 10-hour crew rest exception shall only be used to keep crews in 24-hour clock
cycles, not for scheduling convenience. (T-3)
7.1.5.3. Any reduction from 12 hours crew rest requires pre-coordination for transportation,
meals, and quarters as necessary so crew members are provided an opportunity for at least
eight hours of uninterrupted sleep. (T-3)
7.1.6. Crew members will not perform cyberspace mission duties when under the influence of
alcohol or other intoxicating substances, or while impaired by its after effects. (T-3)
7.2. Training. Cyber crew training for CMR/MR personnel will be conducted IAW
AFSPCGM 10-1, Cybercrew Training, as supplemented by NAF and wing instructions.
Training for Cyberspace Operational Support personnel will be conducted IAW the Air Force
Training Program. (T-1)
7.3. Go/No Go Procedures. The purpose of the Go/No-Go program is to ensure individual
crew members are current, qualified, or adequately supervised to perform operations.
AFSPCGM10-2, Cybercrew Standardization and Evaluation Program, contains additional
guidance on the Go/No-Go program for CMR/MR personnel. (T-3)
7.4. Evaluations. Evaluations for CMR/MR personnel will be conducted in accordance with
AFSPCGM 10-2 as supplemented by NAF and wing instructions. Evaluations for Cyberspace
Operational Support personnel will be conducted IAW MPTO 00-33A-1001. (T-3)



                                                11
7.5. Crew Scheduling. Scheduling mission crews will be accomplished in accordance with
crew rest limitations provided in this guidance. (T-3)
7.5.1. Crew integrity should be utilized to the maximum extent possible. (T-3)
7.5.2. Units will attempt to provide all crew members as stable a schedule as possible by
utilizing a standard rotation for 24/7 operations. (T-3)
7.5.3. Operations Scheduling. Operations schedulers will publish, post, and monitor schedules
for the crew force and initiate changes to the schedules based on proper tracking of
qualifications, certifications, restrictions, and other factors required to meet mission objectives.
(T-3)
7.5.3.1. An operations scheduler will ensure a crew member on leave or temporary duty (TDY)
is notified if a schedule change places or changes an event on their schedule during the first 72
hours of their scheduled return. (T-3)
7.5.3.1.1. Notifications will be made as soon as practical after the change is official, but not
later than 12 hours prior to the scheduled event time. (T-3)




                                                 12
