BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                                      INSTRUCTION 91-701
                                                                                           1 JUNE 2005

                                                                                                   Safety

                                                              LAUNCH SAFETY PROGRAM POLICY



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: SEC (Mr. Edward H. Browne)                                  Certified by: SE (Col Billy R. Colwell)
                                                                                              Pages: 19
                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction implements Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 3100.10, Space Policy, DoDD
3200.11, Major Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB), DoDD 3230.3, DoD Support for Commercial
Space Launch Activities, Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 3100.12, Space Support, Air Force
Policy Directive (AFPD) 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety, AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, Air
Force Instruction (AFI) 63-1201, Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness, AFI
91-202_AFSPCSUP1, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, and the Memorandum of Agree-
ment between the Department of the Air Force and the Federal Aviation Administration on Safety for
Space Transportation and Range Activities (Air Force/Federal Aviation Administration [AF/FAA]
MOA). It defines and implements Launch Safety policy and responsibilities for Air Force Space Com-
mand (AFSPC). It identifies interfaces with other DoD, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), and civil
and commercial Range Users.
This instruction applies to all HQ AFSPC, subordinate, and supporting units. This instruction also applies
to supporting Air Force Reserve Command and Air National Guard units when published in their respec-
tive 0-2 indexes. This instruction may be supplemented as required by subordinate units with the concur-
rence of HQ AFSPC/SE. Send correspondence pertaining to this instruction to HQ AFSPC/SEC, 150
Vandenberg St., Ste 1105, Peterson AFB CO 80914-4260. Maintain and dispose of records created as a
result of prescribed processes in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) which
may be found on-line at https://webrims.amc.af.mil/.
This is the first publication of Air Force Space Command Instruction (AFSPCI) 91-701. The policies in
this document substantially revise previous guidance; therefore, this new document shall be completely
reviewed. This instruction pulls together requirements from many other documents that contain pieces of
Launch Safety program direction.


1. AFSPC Launch Safety Program. AFSPC operates two Air Force-owned national ranges established
under DoDD 3200.11, for all users having a valid need for launch and test range capabilities. Operation
2                                                                          AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005


of these MRTFB ranges carries with it specific responsibilities for public and Launch Safety, also known
as Range Safety. This publication defines policy and requirements to meet these responsibilities.
    1.1. Purpose. This publication establishes the AFSPC Launch Safety program for the Eastern and
    Western Launch and Test Ranges (ER and WR) operated by 45 and 30 Space Wings (45 SW and 30
    SW), respectively. It implements DoD and Air Force Launch Safety policy and it defines the respon-
    sibilities and authority of agencies and range organizations that establish, implement, and enforce
    Launch Safety requirements. The goal of the Launch Safety program is to allow Range Users to
    conduct their missions with minimal interference while maintaining a mutual strong commitment to
    public safety.
       1.1.1. This publication establishes Launch Safety policy and responsibilities to ensure that the
       public, range/third party launch area and launch complex personnel, and range/third party owned
       resources are provided an acceptable level of safety during all pre-launch, launch, post-launch,
       and other approved activities.
       1.1.2. This publication identifies and implements AFSPC Launch Safety responsibilities and
       identifies the interfaces that were established to meet the requirements of the AF/FAA MOA.
       1.1.3. This publication also identifies and implements responsibilities for activities relating to the
       Launch Safety aspects of the Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and
       the Space Flight Worthiness (SFW) Certification programs applicable to AFSPC procured sys-
       tems.
       1.1.4. Safety responsibilities of the 21 SW that affect or support the Launch Safety program are
       also addressed within this publication.
    1.2. Applicability.
       1.2.1. The policies, requirements, and responsibilities defined in this instruction shall be applica-
       ble to both AFSPC ranges and all Range Users conducting or supporting operations on these
       ranges. Specific policies, responsibilities, and authorities of AFSPC organizations for imple-
       menting Launch Safety requirements at the ranges will be described in a future Air Force Space
       Command Manual on Range Safety Requirements for AFSPC organizations. Specific policies,
       responsibilities, and authorities of AFSPC organizations for implementing Orbital and Ground
       Based Space System Safety requirements will be described in a future AFSPC instruction on
       Orbital and Ground Based Space System Safety Program Policy. Specific Range User policies,
       requirements, and approvals required for processing and launch at the ranges are defined in
       AFSPCMAN 91-710, Range Safety User Requirements Manual, and previous Launch Safety
       requirements documents such as Eastern and Western Range (EWR) 127-1, Range Safety
       Requirements. When used in this publication, the terms range or ranges refer to both AFSPC
       ranges.
       1.2.2. Range Users include all entities who conduct pre-launch, launch, post-launch, or other
       approved activities that use AFSPC range facilities and test equipment.
    1.3. Responsibilities and Authorities. The United States Air Force (USAF) as owner and operator
    of the ER and WR has regulatory responsibility for Range Safety. The FAA, as the licensing agency
    of commercial launch operators (Range Users), shares this regulatory responsibility with the USAF
    for FAA-licensed launches from these ranges. The USAF and FAA hold all Range Users responsi-
    ble for safe operations with respect to public safety and USAF or third party personnel and resources.
AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005                                                                          3


     1.3.1. HQ Air Force Space Command Responsibilities. AFSPC operates and has overall
     responsibility for public safety at the ranges. HQ AFSPC is responsible for establishing and
     enforcing a Launch Safety program and its associated policies and requirements.
        1.3.1.1. HQ AFSPC Directorate of Safety (HQ AFSPC/SE) Responsibilities. HQ AFSPC/SE
        has authority and responsibility for the oversight of the AFSPC Launch Safety program.
            1.3.1.1.1. HQ AFSPC/SE shall establish, evaluate, approve, and publish, in accordance
            with AFSPCI 91-700, Range Safety Publication Series (AFSPC 91-7XX document
            series) policy and guidance for carrying out these responsibilities.
            1.3.1.1.2. HQ AFSPC/SE shall evaluate all “tailored” versions of AFSPCMAN 91-710
            requirements, including equivalent level of safety (ELS) (formerly known as meets intent
            certifications) determinations and waivers, for significant trends and updates to Range
            Safety requirements.
            1.3.1.1.3. HQ AFSPC/SE shall establish and allocate launch mishap reporting require-
            ments and guidance for AFSPC organizations as responsibilities transition during launch
            to on orbit (or planned impact) through end of launch vehicle or spacecraft life.
            1.3.1.1.4. HQ AFSPC Space Safety (SEC), as the USAF Co-Chair of the Common Stan-
            dards Working Group (CSWG), shall provide the direct interface between AFSPC and the
            FAA for establishing common Launch Safety requirements as identified in the AF/FAA
            MOA.
               1.3.1.1.4.1. HQ AFSPC/SEC shall support and Co-Chair with the FAA Office of the
               Associate Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation (AST) the CSWG in
               accordance with the Charter for the Common Standards Working Group of the
               United States Air Force and Federal Aviation Administration Associate Administra-
               tor for Commercial Space Transportation.
               1.3.1.1.4.2. HQ AFSPC/SEC shall support and Co-Chair with the FAA/AST the Relief
               Review Panel in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding between Air
               Force Space Command and Federal Aviation Administration Office of the Associate
               Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation for Resolving Requests for
               Relief from Common Launch Safety Requirements (AF/FAA MOU for Resolving
               Requests for Relief). The Relief Review Panel shall review the Wing Safety disposi-
               tion of relief requests and approved tailored common Launch Safety requirements doc-
               uments at least annually. The review panel shall recommend changes to the common
               Launch Safety requirements to the CSWG.
               1.3.1.1.4.3. HQ AFSPC/SEC and the 30 and 45 SW/SEs shall inform the FAA/AST of
               planned or impending changes, including additions or deletions, to Launch Safety
               related organizations, programs, processes, ground systems, and/or end-items.
            1.3.1.1.5. HQ AFSPC/SEC shall support the Range Users Coordination Board and the
            Commercial Space Industry Leaders conferences. HQ AFSPC/SE shall inform these two
            groups of impending changes to Range User safety requirements.
            1.3.1.1.6. HQ AFSPC/SEC shall participate with and support the Range Commanders
            Council’s (RCC) appropriate groups/subgroups.
4                                                                      AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005


    1.3.2. Space and Missile Systems Center Responsibilities. The Space and Missile Systems
    Center (SMC), through its System Program Offices (SPO) and Detachments (DET), acquires and
    sustains Air Force space and missile systems for AFSPC or through AFSPC for other DoD/inter-
    agency partners. SMC Single Managers (SM) have lifecycle Operational Safety, Suitability,
    and Effectiveness (OSS&E) responsibility in accordance with AFI 63-1201, as implemented by
    SMC Instruction 63-1201 (SMCI 63-1201), Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and
    Effectiveness for Space and Missile Systems, for all launch services, systems, and end-items in
    the SMC-procured space and missile product line, including systems, and end-items located at the
    ranges. SMC has SFW Certification responsibility, implemented in accordance with SMCI
    63-1202, Space Flight Worthiness, for all SMC-procured launch services and systems.
       1.3.2.1. The SMC Commander (SMC/CC) shall provide SFW Certification for SMC-pro-
       cured launch services and systems to the applicable SW/CC before each Launch Readiness
       Review.
       1.3.2.2. The SMC Satellite and Launch Control Systems Program Office (SMC/RN) is
       responsible for acquisition, modernization, and sustainment of all range ground systems and
       end-items required by the ranges to conduct their Launch Safety programs. SMC/RN is
       responsible for obtaining coordination/concurrence of requirements, for systems or end-items,
       with the applicable SW/SE, 14AF/SE, SMC/SE, and HQ AFSPC/SE organizations. SMC/RN
       shall include the SW/SEs in scheduled program reviews, including System Requirement
       Reviews (SRRs), System Design Reviews (SDRs), Preliminary Design Reviews (PDRs) and
       Critical Design Reviews (CDRs) and associated Technical Interchange Meetings.
       1.3.2.3. SMC SPO/SM/DETs, as Range Users, are responsible for and shall implement a
       System Safety program that includes all Space Safety (Launch and Orbital) requirements, for
       each SMC-procured launch service, system, or end-item used at any AFSPC or
       FAA-licensed range. Each SPO/SM/DET shall ensure adequate funding of the System Safety
       program for their systems or services consistent with validated requirements.
       1.3.2.4. SMC SPO/SM/DETs are responsible for and shall conduct an OSS&E assurance pro-
       gram for each SMC-procured launch service, system or end-item, in accordance with AFI
       63-1201, as implemented by SMCI 63-1201. Each SPO/SM shall ensure adequate funding of
       the Range Safety OSS&E support for their program.
       1.3.2.5. SMC SPO/SM/DETs are responsible for and shall implement a formal space debris
       minimization program and a spacecraft end-of-life program for each SMC-procured system
       in accordance with DoDD 3100.10, DoDI 3100.12, and AFI 91-202_AFSPCSUP1.
       1.3.2.6. SMC SPO/SM/DETs are responsible for ensuring that SMC-procured orbital systems
       that are designed to re-enter the earth’s atmosphere shall not endanger the public to a collective
       casualty expectation (Ec) risk greater than 1 x 10-4.
       1.3.2.7. Each SMC SPO/SM/DET with control authority of their spacecraft is responsible for
       the Orbital Safety Program of their spacecraft until they relinquish control authority to a sat-
       ellite control center (from the end of Range Safety control and/or satellite separation through
       spacecraft on-orbit checkout and transfer of on-orbit control authority). This includes colli-
       sion avoidance; for example, obtaining and responding to conjunction assessments (C/As)
       from the 1 Space Control Squadron (SPCS).
AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005                                                                             5


        1.3.2.8. Each SMC SPO/SM/DET shall ensure the applicable SW/SE, SMC/SE, 14AF/SE,
        and HQ AFSPC/SE point of contact is informed of any mishaps and Class E events [anomalies
        and High Accident Potentials (HAPs)] occurring at their contractor/vendor facilities or at the
        launch base that could affect Range Safety for SMC-procured systems and launch services.
        Special attention shall be applied to flight termination system components.
        1.3.2.9. SMC/SE shall compile and maintain a Lessons Learned file from all reported anoma-
        lies/mishaps/HAPs and disseminate the information to HQ AFSPC/SE, 14AF/SE, SW/SEs,
        and all SMC/SPO/SM/DET safety offices.
        1.3.2.10. SMC/SE shall provide copies of all SW-approved ELS determinations and waivers
        to the SMC SPOs/DETS for information purposes.
        1.3.2.11. SMC/SE shall coordinate all proposed changes/revisions to any of the AFSPC
        91-7XX documents, specifically AFSPCMAN 91-710 with the SMC/SPOs/DETs for informa-
        tion and comment. SMC/SE shall obtain and provide consolidated SMC comments in accor-
        dance with AFSPCI 91-700 to the applicable SW/SE and to HQ AFSPC/SE.
        1.3.2.12. SMC/SE, as the HQ AFSPC Chief of Systems Safety, shall coordinate on all range
        system requirements and range system upgrades and/or modifications.
        1.3.2.13. SMC/SE shall participate with and support the CSWG, the Relief Review Panel, and
        the RCCs appropriate subgroups.
     1.3.3. Fourteenth Air Force Responsibilities:
        1.3.3.1. The 14 AF/CC shall notify and obtain approval from the AFSPC/CC if either range
        intends to exceed a predicted collective casualty expectation (Ec) risk of 3,000 x 10-6 for any
        launch (See Figure 1.). The AFSPC/CC will relay his response via an AFSPC Command
        Center-released Air Force Space Order (AFSORD).
        1.3.3.2. 14AF/SE shall oversee the Launch Safety programs at the ranges.
        1.3.3.3. 14AF/SE shall ensure that consistent and standard Range Safety processes and
        approvals, as identified in AFSPCMAN 91-710, are levied on all Range Users.
        1.3.3.4. 14AF/SE shall oversee the Orbital/Space Safety Programs conducted by the 21 SW.
        1.3.3.5. 14AF/SE shall participate in and support the CSWG, the Relief Review Panel, and
        appropriate RCC subgroups.
     1.3.4. Space Wing Responsibilities:
        1.3.4.1. 21 SW. The 21 SW/CC has the authority and responsibility for the Space Safety Pro-
        gram in support of missile warning and space control.
            1.3.4.1.1. The 21SW/CC is responsible for establishing, maintaining, and enforcing an
            Orbital Safety Program necessary for pre-launch collision avoidance (COLA) screening,
            debris identification through the maintenance of the space catalog, and performing C/As.
            These programs shall be based upon AFI 91-202_AFSPCSUP1.
               1.3.4.1.1.1. The 1 Space Control Squadron (1 SPCS) shall perform C/A support for all
               launches from the ranges in accordance with USSTRATCOMI 505-1, VOL 2, Space
               Surveillance Operations – Event Processing.
6                                                                 AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005


          1.3.4.1.1.2. The 1 SPCS, as the Center of Excellence for C/A, shall provide the ranges
          with the probability of impact and/or miss distance analysis results from the conjunc-
          tion analysis performed during pre-launch screening for each launch in accordance
          with USSTRATCOMI 505-1, VOL 2.
              1.3.4.1.1.2.1. C/A shall be performed using a minimum standoff distance of 200
              kilometers for manned/mannable orbiting objects and a minimum 50 kilometers
              standoff distance for all other orbiting objects. Projected violation of the minimum
              standoff distances shall be immediately reported to the affected satellite control
              authority. If a manned/mannable orbiting object is at risk notify the AFSPC/CC.
              Deviations from this requirement shall be approved in accordance with established,
              approved protocol.
          1.3.4.1.1.3. The 1 SPCS shall provide assistance for orbit determination for any anom-
          alous launch when requested by the ranges.
          1.3.4.1.1.4. For each SMC-procured systems and/or end-items, the SW/SE shall sup-
          port SMC/SPO/SM/DETs in performing Orbital Ground Based Space System Safety
          related OSS&E functions. SW/SE shall participate in scheduled program reviews,
          including SRR, SDR, PDR and CDR, provide safety inputs, and support scheduled
          Technical Interchange Meetings.
    1.3.4.2. 30 SW and 45 SW. The SW/CC has the authority and responsibility for public
    safety and the Launch Safety program at his/her range.
       1.3.4.2.1. The SW/CC is responsible for establishing, maintaining, and enforcing a
       Launch Safety program with responsibilities ranging from program introduction through
       launch, including impact or orbital insertion or attainment of earth escape velocity and/or
       end of programmed Range Safety control. To ensure an independent safety assessment,
       Range Safety organizations shall report directly to the SW/CC. The Wing Safety organi-
       zation shall define clear roles and responsibilities for each safety function. Changes to the
       Wing Safety organizational structure should only be made with careful consideration of
       their effect on the system and their possible unintended consequences. The Launch Safety
       program is a two-part program:
          1.3.4.2.1.1. Part One. Implementation and enforcement of AFSPC policies and
          requirements that Range Users shall meet to be approved to perform operations on and
          from the ranges. The SW/CC or his/her designated representatives shall ensure the
          Range User utilizes the Universal Documentation System (UDS) as the means to
          establish their launch requirements, including the requirement to comply with AFSPC-
          MAN 91-710. The SW/CC or his/her designated representatives are delegated the
          authority to prepare and approve tailored versions of AFSPCMAN 91-710 or EWR
          127-1 for each program.
          1.3.4.2.1.2. Part Two. Development and implementation of internal SW infrastruc-
          ture, requirements, processes, and procedures necessary to establish and support the
          Launch Safety program.
       1.3.4.2.2. The SW/CC shall comply with the AF/FAA MOA. In addition to the SW/CC’s
       stated authority, the FAA has the responsibility and authority to prohibit, suspend, or
       immediately stop an FAA-licensed launch before flight if, at any time, the FAA deter-
AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005                                                                            7


           mines the launch is detrimental to public health and safety, the safety of property, or any
           national security or the foreign policy interest of the United States. For FAA-licensed
           launches, the SWs shall not approve waivers to AFSPC/FAA common launch standards
           without FAA approval.
           1.3.4.2.3. The SW/CC shall use a predicted collective casualty expectation (Ec) risk guid-
           ance of 30 x 10-6 for every launch unless national need dictates exceeding this limit. The
           SW/CC shall notify the 14 AF/CC if he/she intends to exceed the predicted collective
           casualty expectation (Ec) risk guidance of 300 x 10-6 for any launch. The SW/CC shall not
           launch without AFSPC/CC approval if the predicted collective casualty expectation (Ec)
           risk exceeds 3000 x 10-6 for any launch.
           1.3.4.2.4. The SW/CC or his/her designated representative shall establish and enforce SW
           procedures or supplements defining internal SW Launch Safety requirements, procedures,
           processes, and interfaces/infrastructure. These procedures or supplements shall be identi-
           fied and made available to 14 AF/SE, SMC/SE, and HQ AFSPC/SE for review and com-
           ment.
           1.3.4.2.5. The SW/CC or his/her designated representative shall coordinate agreements
           (e.g., MOAs, MOUs, and/or other joint agreements) with non-AFSPC organizations that
           affect Launch Safety with 14 AF/SE and HQ AFSPC/SE.
           1.3.4.2.6. The SW/CC or his/her designated representative shall coordinate and document
           actions between the ranges to ensure that consistent and standard Launch Safety require-
           ments, processes, and approvals are levied on all Range Users. Documentation shall
           include the rationale for any differences.
           1.3.4.2.7. The SW/CC or his/her designated representative shall identify and announce at
           the LRR the launch mishap investigation authority.
           1.3.4.2.8. The SW/CC is delegated the authority to approve ELS determinations or waiv-
           ers to Launch Safety requirements contained in AFSPCMAN 91-710 or EWR 127-1,
           Range Safety Requirements, for grandfathered programs. Range User requested ELS
           determinations and/or waiver requests shall be based upon Range User provided and sub-
           stantiated rationale. Waiver approval for Mandatory safety requirements during final
           countdown for launch shall be based on the recommendation of the Mission Flight Control
           Officer and Range Safety. Other safety requirements may be waived by the Mission Flight
           Control Officer or upgraded to a Mandatory requirement. In either case, written substanti-
           ation shall be provided after the countdown/launch. On FAA-licensed launches, the
           Range User (FAA-licensed launch operator) is required to obtain approval from the FAA
           for all requests for ELS determinations and waivers in accordance with the AF/FAA MOU
           for Resolving Requests for Relief.
              1.3.4.2.8.1. All applicable waivers shall be reviewed by the SW Chief of Safety (SW/
              SE) or his/her designated representative for validity before each launch or launch
              cycle. Before each launch, the SW/SE shall inform the SW/CC of the safety status of
              the launch vehicle and its payload(s).
              1.3.4.2.8.2. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall review all waivers
              on an annual basis and close where appropriate.
8                                                              AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005


    1.3.4.2.9. The SW/SE shall report directly to the SW/CC.
    1.3.4.2.10. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall maintain, implement,
    and enforce the requirements of AFSPCMAN 91-710, as it applies to Range User pro-
    grams on their range. The SW/SEs or their designated representatives have the authority
    to suspend Range User operations that are not in compliance with the requirements of
    AFSPCMAN 91-710.
    1.3.4.2.11. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative is delegated authority to
    approve ELS determinations to Launch Safety requirements contained in AFSPCMAN
    91-710 that do not impact public safety. Range User requested ELS determinations shall
    be based on Range User provided and substantiated rationale.
    1.3.4.2.12. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall forward copies of all
    approved AFSPCMAN 91-710 ELS determinations and waivers to 14 AF/SE, SMC/SE,
    and HQ AFSPC/SE for information.
    1.3.4.2.13. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall coordinate with 14 AF/
    SE and SMC/SE and obtain approval from HQ AFSPC/SE for all changes/revisions to
    AFSPCMAN 91-710 in accordance with AFSPCI 91-700.
    1.3.4.2.14. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall inform 14 AF/SE and
    HQ AFSPC/SE of any Range User that requests to launch nuclear reactors or radioactive
    materials in quantities in excess of the threshold limits established by AFI 91-110, Nuclear
    Safety Review and Launch Approval for Space or Missile Use of Radioactive Material
    and Nuclear Systems, Attachment 2, “Analysis Threshold Quantities for Radioactive
    Materials.”
    1.3.4.2.15. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall inform 14 AF/SE, SMC/
    SE, and HQ AFSPC/SE of all Range User mishaps. AF programs or programs with AF
    involvement that have mishaps shall be reported in accordance with AFI 91-204, Safety
    Investigations and Reports (AFSPC Sup 1), and Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 91-222,
    Space Safety Investigations and Reports. Non-USAF mishaps may be investigated under
    the cognizance of other agencies (e.g., FAA, NTSB, NASA). In such cases, USAF units
    shall cooperate fully with the investigating authority. The USAF shall have access to the
    findings of the mishap investigation so as to affect resolution.
    1.3.4.2.16. For each SMC-procured launch service, system, and/or end-item, the SW/SE
    shall support SMC/SPO/SM/DETs in performing Launch Safety related OSS&E func-
    tions, such as:
       1.3.4.2.16.1. Participate in program reviews (e.g., SRR, SDR, PDR and CDR) and
       technical interchange meetings. Review and provide safety inputs on Range User
       programs.
       1.3.4.2.16.2. Review and evaluate and upon inclusion of comments, approve Range
       User prepared safety data packages, hazardous and safety critical test/processing pro-
       cedures, and other safety data in accordance with AFSPCMAN 91-710.
       1.3.4.2.16.3. Enforce Launch Safety requirements and procedures.
AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005                                                                                 9


                1.3.4.2.16.4. Evaluate and provide flight safety system, also known as the range safety
                system, (tracking, telemetry, and flight termination system) and flight safety approval
                and certification.
            1.3.4.2.17. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall assess the safety risks on
            day of launch and provide a safety go/no-go advisement to the Space Lift Commander.
            1.3.4.2.18. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall support SMC/SPO/SM/
            DETs in Launch Safety-related SFW certification tasks.
            1.3.4.2.19. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall provide a memo indicat-
            ing Launch Safety approval status of the launch vehicle or spacecraft, and/or ground sys-
            tem to the SMC/SPO/SM/DET before or at the SMC flight readiness review or range
            ground system acceptance. This memo shall be based on the review and approval of safety
            designs, test data, and other information collected before the SMC flight readiness review
            or ground system acceptance.
            1.3.4.2.20. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall coordinate with and
            obtain launch screening data from the 1 SPCS to be used for each launch.
            1.3.4.2.21. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall participate with and sup-
            port the CSWG, the Relief Review Panel, and appropriate RCC subgroups.
            1.3.4.2.22. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall approve mission rules.
     1.3.5. Responsibilities for HQ AFSPC Directorates. HQ AFSPC directorates acquiring sys-
     tems from product centers other than SMC shall ensure that HQ AFSPC/SE reviews and coordi-
     nates on system requirements; for example, Electronic Systems Center acquired radars shall be
     evaluated for capability to support Space Control and the mission of space track that supports C/
     A, COLA, and debris limitation.
     1.3.6. Responsibilities for Commercial Space Launch. In accordance with 49 United States
     Code (USC), Subtitle IX, Commercial Space Transportation, Chapter 701, Commercial Space
     Launch Activities, USC paragraphs 70101 – 70121, the FAA has licensing authority for commer-
     cial launch activities. The FAA has the responsibility and authority to prohibit, suspend, or end
     immediately a licensed launch before flight if, at any time, the FAA determines the launch is det-
     rimental to public health and safety, the safety of property, or any national security or foreign pol-
     icy interest of the US. This responsibility extends to federal as well as to non-federal launch sites.
        1.3.6.1. FAA-licensed launch operators (Range Users) are responsible to comply with the
        requirements in AFSPCMAN 91-710 to process and launch from the AFSPC ranges, as well
        as their FAA license requirements. AFSPCMAN 91-710 encompasses the AFSPC/FAA com-
        mon Launch Safety requirements.
        1.3.6.2. The FAA reviews and approves all requests not to comply with any of its 14 Code of
        Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 417 requirements submitted by FAA-licensed launch opera-
        tors. The FAA provides copies of these approvals to the SW/CCs for information purposes.
        The SWs shall not approve waivers to AFSPC/FAA common Launch Safety requirements
        without FAA approval.
        1.3.6.3. For FAA-licensed launches, the ranges shall coordinate with the FAA regarding the
        following activities as outlined in the AF/FAA MOU for Resolving Requests for Relief:
10                                                                         AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005


                1.3.6.3.1. Safety requirements (AFSPCMAN 91-710) tailoring.
                1.3.6.3.2. ELS and waiver requests review and approval.
                1.3.6.3.3. LRR/day of launch real time waiver approval.
            1.3.6.4. The FAA performs a Launch Site Safety Assessment (LSSA) of each range, as part of
            its program to ensure its safety requirements are satisfied on the federal ranges. The FAA and
            the ranges shall cooperate to assure that the LSSAs are comprehensive and accurate.
        1.3.7. Range User Responsibilities. Range Users are solely responsible for complying with the
        requirements identified in AFSPCMAN 91-710. Range Users are responsible for requesting and
        substantiating any AFSPCMAN 91-710 tailoring, ELS and/or waiver requests required for their
        programs. Range Users, including government contractors, are solely responsible for compliance
        with Occupational Safety and Health Administration standards and the protection of their employ-
        ees and resources. Further, they have an inherent responsibility to protect government employees
        and property when such are involved in contractor operations or on contractor leased facilities.
        No instruction, requirement, standard, or policy issued by the USAF, or by any unit of the USAF,
        shall be misinterpreted as relief or authority to deviate from the Range User’s required compliance
        with any existing laws, rules, regulations, or statutes. Any perceived conflict shall be brought
        immediately to the attention of the Wing Safety organization.

2. Launch Safety Program Policy and Requirements. All range operations shall be accomplished in
such a manner as to ensure that the risk to the public, range/third party launch area and launch complex
personnel, and range/third party owned resources are provided an acceptable level of safety consistent
with mission needs and national priorities. This policy shall be implemented by using risk management
practices and procedures as established in this document and AFSPCMAN 91-710.
     2.1. Range management shall strive to ensure that the risk to the public, including foreign countries
     (personnel and resources), from range operations is no more than the risk accepted by the general
     public in normal day-to-day activities. SW/SE flight safety analysts shall analyze the risk to the pub-
     lic and the launch area for each launch. Figure 1. illustrates risk management criteria used in deter-
     mining acceptable risk for individual launches. Risk criteria shall be applied as follows:
        2.1.1. The general public shall not be exposed to a collective casualty expectation (Ec) risk level
        of more than 30 casualties in 1 million (30 x 10-6) for each hazard per mission, and not more than
        an individual Ec risk of 1 in 1 million (1 x 10-6) for each hazard per mission.
        2.1.2. The collective Launch Essential and Neighboring Operations Personnel shall not be
        exposed to a collective Ec risk level of more than 300 casualties in 1 million (300 x 10-6) per mis-
        sion, and not more than an individual Ec risk of 10 in 1 million (10 x 10-6) per mission.
        2.1.3. These risk criteria shall be used by all AFSPC ranges as a level defining “acceptable
        launch risk” for individual launches, without SW/CC review/approval. The SW/CC may vary
        from these criteria for particular programs or missions based on national need (see 2.1.4.). For
        FAA-licensed launches that exceed these criteria, the licensed launch operator shall also apply for
        FAA permission and obtain appropriate determination under its FAA license.
        2.1.4. If an SW/CC intends to launch with a collective Ec risk in excess of 300 x 10-6 (national
        need), he/she shall inform the 14 AF/CC prior to the launch. If either range intends to exceed an
        Ec risk of 3,000 x 10-6 for any launch, the SW/CC shall notify the 14 AF/CC that AFSPC/CC
AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005                                                                                   11


     approval is required. The 14 AF/CC shall request approval from the AFSPC/CC (See Figure 1.).
     The AFSPC/CC will relay his response via an AFSPC Command Center-released AFSORD. All
     variations from the risk criteria and established Range User requirements as stated in AFSPC-
     MAN 91-710 shall be documented by the wings and approved at the appropriate levels.
     2.1.5. Boats and ships shall not be exposed above 1 x 10-5 collective probability of impact.
     2.1.6. Aircraft shall not be exposed above 1 x 10-6 collective probability of impact. A more con-
     servative criterion of a 1 x 10 -8 collective probability of impact for ships may be used for
     aircraft that accounts for introduced risk uncertainty caused by variability in aircraft type, posi-
     tion, altitude, and speed.
     2.1.7. Trains (WR only) shall not be exposed above 1 x 10-6 probability of impact.
  2.2. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall define and control hazardous launch areas
  and develop procedures to protect the public on land, on the sea, and in the air for each launch and
  launch vehicle that operates on the ranges.
  2.3. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall ensure that all USAF or third party person-
  nel and USAF or third party resources located on Cape Canaveral Air Force Station or Vandenberg Air
  Force Base or on any supporting site of the ER or WR are provided an acceptable degree of protection
  from the hazards associated with range operations.
  2.4. The ranges shall enforce the requirements established in AFSPCMAN 91-710 on all Range
  Users. The ranges may tailor the requirements on a programmatic basis and may waive requirements
  when there is acceptable justification or when there is significant national need.
  2.5. The ranges shall verify that each launch system provides a positive, controlled capability that
  allows the initiation of a hold-fire to prevent a launch in the event of loss of a safety critical system or
  violation of mandatory launch commit criteria.
  2.6. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall verify that all launch vehicles launched
  from or onto the ranges have a positive, range-approved method of controlling errant vehicle flight to
  meet the objective of minimizing the risks to the public, launch area, launch complex personnel, and
  range-owned resources. Mission rules and flight termination policy for the Space Transportation
  System shall be in accordance with the NASA Johnson Space Center Flight Rules, A4.1.6.
  2.7. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall evaluate all launch vehicle, payload,
  ground support, and facility systems used on the ranges to test, checkout, assemble, handle, support,
  or launch vehicles or payloads with regard to their hazard potential and to ensure that they are
  designed to minimize Launch Safety risks and fall within acceptable exposure levels for launch area
  and launch complex safety. Wing Safety shall evaluate each launch vehicle program for post-launch,
  hold-fire/misfire, and back-out capability.
Figure 1. Acceptable Public Exposure Launch Operations Risk Guidance




                                                                       12
                                                                       AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005
AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005                                                                               13


  2.8. All Range Users shall be required to minimize the hazards they generate to protect the resources
  of other Range Users and the range. Conversely, all Range Users shall recognize that the nature of
  the launch industry will expose their resources, which are located close to other launch-related facili-
  ties, to a higher level of risk than would generally be experienced off-range.
  2.9. If a Range Users’ launch system experiences a launch failure, then the Range User shall obtain
  a “Safety Return to Flight” approval per AFI 10-1212, Space Launch Vehicle Return to Flight,
  before attempting to launch again.
  2.10. Programs coming to the AFSPC ranges that already have approval to launch from other ranges
  shall be evaluated by the 30 SW/SE and/or 45 SW/SE for compliance verification with the Range
  Safety user requirements specified in AFSPCMAN 91-710. Range Users may submit their previ-
  ously approved safety documentation without modification for this evaluation. For example, if a pro-
  gram already has a flight termination system approval under the RCC Flight Termination System
  Commonality Standard 319-99 (or later version) or the FAA licensing rules, that approval may be
  transferable to the ER and/or WR with only a compliance verification review.
  2.11. The SW/SE or his/her designated representative shall obtain and enforce launch collision avoid-
  ance hold criteria for mannable orbiting objects.



                                              BILLY R. COLWELL, Col, USAF
                                              Director of Safety
14                                                                    AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
45 SW No. 15E-2-8 KCA 1305 Rev. B, Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) Among The 45th Space
Wing (45 SW), The National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s John F. Kennedy Space Center
(NASA-KSC,) and The Space Shuttle Program Office (NASA SSPO) For Range Safety
AF/FAA MOA, Memorandum of Agreement between Department of the Air Force and Federal Avia-
tion Administration for Space Transportation and Range Activities
AF/FAA MOU for Resolving Requests for Relief, Memorandum of Understanding between Air Force
Space Command and Federal Aviation Administration Office of the Associate Administrator for Com-
mercial Space Transportation for Resolving Requests for Relief from Common Launch Safety
Requirements
AFI 10- 1211, Space Launch Operations
AFI 10-1212, Space Launch Vehicle Return to Flight
AFI 13 – 201, Air Force Airspace Management
AFI 13-212, Volume 1, Range Planning and Operations
AFI 63-1201, Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness
AFI 91-110, Nuclear Safety Review and Launch Approval for Space or Missile Use of Radioactive
Material and Nuclear Systems
AFI 91-202, U.S. Air Force Mishap Prevention Program (AFSPC Sup1)
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports (AFSPC Sup 1)
AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards
AFMAN 91-222, Space Safety Investigations and Reports
AFPD 10-12, Space
AFPD 63-12, Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness
AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs
AFSPCI 91-700, Range Safety Publications Series
AFSPCMAN 91-710, Range Safety User Requirements Manual
Charter for the Common Standards Working Group of the United States Air Force and Federal Avia-
tion Administration Associate Administrator for Space Transportation
DoDD 3100.10, Space Policy
DoDD 3200.11, Major Range and Test Facility Base
DoDD 3230.3, DoD Support for Commercial Space Launch Activities
AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005                                                                           15


DoDD 4540.1, Use of Air Space by U. S. Aircraft and Firings Over High Seas
DoDD 6055.9, DoD Ammunition and Explosive Safety Standards
DoDI 3100.12, Space Support
EWR 127-1, Range Safety Requirements
NASA Johnson Space Center Flight Rules, A4.1.6
Presidential Directive/National Security Council 25, Scientific or Technological Experiments with Pos-
sible Large Scale Adverse Environmental Effects and Launch of Nuclear Systems into Space
Public Law 10, 10 USC, Section 172, Ammunition Storage Board
RCC 319, Flight Termination Systems Commonality Standard
RCC 321, Common Risk Criteria for National Test Ranges (Inert Debris)
SMCI 63-1201, Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness for Space and Missile
Systems
SMCI 63-1202, Space Flight Worthiness
US Space Command Policy Directive 10-39, Satellite Disposal Procedures
US SPACE TRANSPORTATION POLICY January 6, 2005
USC 49, Subtitle IX, Commercial Space Transportation, Chapter 701, Commercial Space Launch
Activities, 49 USC § 70101 – §70121; 14 CFR Chapter III
USC 49, Title 14, Vol 4, Chap III, Part 400-499, Commercial Space Transportation
USC Title 29, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Public Law 91-596
USSTRATCOMI 505-1, VOL 2, Space Surveillance Operations – Event Processing

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFSPCI—Air Force Space Command Instruction
AFSPCMAN—Air Force Space Command Manual
AST—Associate Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation
C/A—conjunction assessment
CC—Commander
CDR—Critical Design Review
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
16                                                                AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005


COLA—collision avoidance
CSWG—Common Standards Working Group
DET—detachment
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
Ec—casualty expectation
ELS—equivalent level of safety
ER—Eastern Range
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
HAP—High Accident Potential
MRTFB—Major Range and Test Facility Base
NASA—National Aeronautics and Space Administration
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
PDR—Preliminary Design Review
PESHE—Programmatic Environmental, Safety, and Health Evaluation
RCC—Range Commanders Council
SC—Spacecraft
SDR—System Design Review
SFW—Space Flight Worthiness
SM—Single Manager
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
SMCI—Space and Missile Center Instruction
SMC/CC—Space and Missile Systems Center Commander
SMC/RN—Satellite and Launch Control Systems Program Office
SMCI—Space and Missile Systems Center Instruction
SPCS—Space Control Squadron
SPO—System Program Office
SRR—System Requirements Review
Sup—supplement
SW—Space Wing
SW/CC—Space Wing Commander (Range Commander)
AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005                                                                                    17


SW/SE—Space Wing Safety Office (Range Safety)
US—United States
USC—United States Code
USAF—United States Air Force
USSTRATCOM—United States Strategic Command
WR—Western Range

Terms
Common Launch Safety standard—Any Launch Safety requirement located in both the AF Range
Safety Requirements and FAA Launch Safety Requirements documents.
Critical ground system—Any ground system that has a direct impact on mission performance or safety
operation, such as flight tracking or flight termination.
FAA-licensed launch—Any launch by a US citizen or company that requires a license from the FAA, or
is specifically requested to be licensed by the responsible government agency.
Initial drift orbit— The first orbit of a satellite following payload separation from the launch vehicle.
Launch mishap—Space mishaps occurring during launch vehicle operations, including upper stages.
This includes payloads that do not obtain the intended orbit, re-contact of the payload with the upper
stage/launch vehicle, or collisions before completion of the initial drift orbit, and range safety system
failures.
Launch operator—Any individual or organization that conducts any launch activity under an FAA
launch license.
Launch Safety Program—A comprehensive safety program for launch vehicles and related operations
and facilities starting with program introduction at a range. It addresses design, manufacturing,
transportation, ground handling/processing, pre-launch testing, launch of space systems through orbital
insertion, and/or impact of suborbital systems. This includes collision avoidance through orbital
insertion, attainment of earth escape velocity or reentry, and/or end of programmed Range Safety control.
Also includes safety of activities connected with the deployment (debris minimization), and recovery (if
required) of test vehicles or payloads that don’t obtain initial orbit (either planned or unplanned). The
Launch Safety program is a subset of the Space Safety Program.
Launch system—A launch system consists of the launch vehicle, upper stages, spacecraft or reentry
vehicle, and associated ground support equipment and direct support facilities.
Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness—The condition of having acceptable risk to life,
health, property, and environment caused by a system when employing that system in an operational
environment. The degree to which a system can be placed satisfactorily in field use, with consideration
given to availability, compatibility, transportability, interoperability, reliability, wartime use rates,
maintainability, full-dimension protection, operational safety, human factors, architectural and
infrastructure compliance, manpower supportability, logistics supportability, natural environment effects
and impacts, and documentation and training requirements. The overall degree of mission
accomplishment of a system used by representative personnel in the environment planned or expected for
operational employment of the system considering organization, doctrine, tactics, information assurance,
18                                                                         AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005


force protection, survivability, vulnerability, and threat. NOTE: The safety portion of OSS&E is
accomplished through the implementation of a comprehensive System Safety Program.
Orbital insertion—Defined as attainment of an orbital velocity vector that will result in at least one orbit
around the earth. Orbital insertion plus one revolution is the nominal time when Range Safety
responsibility ends and Orbital Safety Program responsibility begins.
Orbital mishap— Space mishaps occurring during spacecraft operation after separation from all launch
vehicle components, including upper stages and transfer motors. Also includes mishaps to ground based
orbital support equipment.
Orbital Safety Program—A comprehensive safety program that ensures safe satellite design, testing,
and on-orbit operations. The initial aspects of the Orbital Safety Programs begin in the earliest phases of
a program when considerations of safety are incorporated in the design and testing. This specifically
includes debris identification/minimization and end-of-life disposal. The on-orbit aspects of Orbital
Safety Programs cover activities after initial drift orbit from payload separation, associated with testing
and operating space vehicles in orbit or deep space, including collision avoidance, reentry, recovery, and
disposal. The Orbital Safety Program is a subset of the Space Safety Program.
Programmatic Environmental, Safety, and Health Evaluation—A program to evaluate the safety,
health, and environment presented by a specific DoD program. NOTE: The safety portion of PESHE is
accomplished through the implementation of a comprehensive System Safety Program.
Public safety—Safety involving risks to personnel and/or property not directly involved in the activity of
concern. This may involve personnel and/or property located off-base or on-base.
Range or ranges—Refers to both AFSPC ranges (Eastern Range and Western Range).
Range Safety Program— A program implemented to ensure that processing, launch and flight of launch
vehicles and payloads, and other authorized operations, present no greater risk to the general public than
that imposed by over-flight of conventional aircraft; such a program also includes launch complex and
launch area safety and protection of national resources.
Range Safety Requirements Documents—Range User Safety Requirements, AFSPCMAN 91-710, or
equivalent documents.
Range Users—any individual or organization that conducts or supports any activity on resources (land,
sea, or air) owned or controlled by AFSPC ranges; includes such organizations as the DoD, US
government agencies, civilian launch operators, and foreign government agencies and other foreign
entities that use AFSPC range facilities and test equipment; conduct pre-launch and launch operations,
including payloads to orbital insertion or impact; and/or require on-orbit or other related support.
SMC-procured space systems and services—A space system consisting of an AF launch vehicle or an
AF spacecraft or both, and associated ground support equipment.
Space Flight Worthiness—A launch system condition where the design meets requirements adequate
for the intended mission, the hardware is built in accordance with that design, the processes and
procedures used in the factory and at the launch base meet requirements, launch base processing is
completed in accordance with the approved procedures, and any anomalous conditions are identified and
resolved.
Space mishap—A mishap involving a space system and/or unique space support equipment.
AFSPCI91-701 1 JUNE 2005                                                                              19


Space Safety Program—Space Safety Program consists of two elements: Launch Safety (also known as
Range Safety) and Orbital Safety. NOTE: The Orbital Safety Program, Launch Safety program, and/or
Range Safety Programs are subsets of the overall comprehensive System Safety Program.
System Safety Program— The application of engineering and management principles, criteria, and
techniques to achieve acceptable mishap risk, within the constraints of operational effectiveness and
suitability, time, and cost, throughout all phases of the system life cycle. NOTE: A properly implemented
comprehensive System Safety Program provides for the Launch Safety, Orbital Safety, OSS&E Safety,
PESHE Safety, and Range Safety program efforts.
