BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                             INSTRUCTION 13-1213

                                                                         18 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                               Nuclear, Space, Missile, Command and Control

                                                               LAUNCH SCHEDULING AND
                                                              FORECASTING PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFSPC/A3S                                                 Certified by: HQ AFSPC/A3S
                                                                           (Col Miguel J. Colón)
Supersedes:   AFSPCI10-1213, 10 Sep 10                                                Pages: 30


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 13-6 Space Policy, Air Force Instruction
(AFI) 10-1201(Note: converting to 13 series), Space Operations; AFI 10-1211(Note: converting
to 13 series), Space Launch Operations; and supports the Commercial Space Launch Activities
(CSLA), 51 USC 50910 et seq. It applies to Headquarters Air Force Space Command (HQ
AFSPC), Fourteenth Air Force (14 AF), the 30th Space Wing (30 SW), 45th Space Wing (45
SW), Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC), applicable subordinate units and supporting
agencies. This instruction applies to Air Force Reserve Command and to the Air National
Guard. SMC and 14 AF are required to supplement this instruction. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Process supplements as required
in AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. Supplements will not lessen the
requirements nor change the basic content or intent of this instruction. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision describes
an updated scheduling process, which includes a Launch Commit Review process, Government
Expendable Launch Vehicle (ELV) Executive Board (GEEB), and Government Integrated
Meeting (GIM). Also included are changes to the Current Launch Schedule (CLS) timeframe,
which is a four-year schedule. It defines the National Mission Model (NMM) as a seven-year
 2                                                                                  AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


national mission forecast and the National Launch Forecast (NLF) as a projection of launches
determined by the NMM. Further revisions are included throughout the document to provide
clarity and consistency for a refined scheduling process.

        1.      General. ..................................................................................................................          2
        2.      Spacelift Launch Strategies. ...................................................................................                     3
        3.     Launch Services Office (LSO) and Launch Information Support Network (LISN).
                .................................................................................................................................    4
        4.      Scheduling and Forecasting Products. ...................................................................                             4
        5.      General Responsibilities and Procedures for Updating LISN. ...............................                                           6
Table 1.        LISN Entry/Update Requirements .........................................................................                             7
        6.      Organizational Responsibilities. ............................................................................                       8
        7.      Forecasting Process. ...............................................................................................                15
Figure 1.       Launch Scheduling and Forecasting Timeline .......................................................                                  15
        8.      Scheduling Process. ...............................................................................................                 16
Figure 2.       CLSRB Process ......................................................................................................                17
Figure 3.       Current Launch Schedule Timeline .......................................................................                            20
        9.      USAF Contingency Launches. ...............................................................................                          21
Figure 4.       USAF Launch Contingency Procedures ................................................................                                 22

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                      24


1. General.
     1.1. Overview. This instruction provides guidance on launch scheduling and forecasting. It
     describes strategies for launching satellite systems supporting Unified Combatant Commands
     (UCC), government, civil and commercial agencies. Included are organizational roles and
     responsibilities, procedures for Launch Services Office (LSO) and Launch Information
     Support Network (LISN) operations and a description of HQ AFSPC scheduling and
     forecasting products and processes.
     1.2. Background. Spacelift operations provide the nation with continued access to space
     through the deployment of space-based assets supporting the Department of Defense (DoD),
     intelligence community, civil and commercial users. The USAF partners with agencies such
     as the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO), National Aeronautics and Space
     Administration (NASA), Missile Defense Agency (MDA) and commercial launch providers
     to ensure successful launch operations. As part of this partnership, the USAF provides the
     Eastern Range (ER) at Cape Canaveral AFS, FL and the Western Range (WR) at
     Vandenberg AFB, CA, which are essential to support DoD, NRO, NASA and commercial
     spacelift operations. The USAF also provides the necessary expertise and tools required to
     schedule launches on the ER and WR. See Attachment 1, Glossary of References and
     Supporting Information, for a list of acronyms and definitions.
AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                3


   1.3. Overall Responsibility. AFSPC/CC has overall responsibility for the launch schedule
   and directs all launch activities via delegation to the 14 AF/CC, who in turn delegates launch
   scheduling execution to the 30 SW/CC for the WR and 45 SW/CC for the ER. Wings must
   report significant scheduling actions, as defined in Attachment 1.
2. Spacelift Launch Strategies. There are two launch strategies for conducting spacelift
operations to deliver satellites, payloads and materiel to space: launch-on-schedule and launch-
on-demand.
   2.1. Launch-on-Schedule. This strategy is the primary means of fulfilling UCC
   requirements for space-based capabilities. It supports routine spacelift activities with a
   nominal launch planning, acquisition, production, integration, testing and launch operations
   cycle. These launches may be forecasted many years in advance on the National Mission
   Model (NMM) and are executed IAW the Current Launch Schedule (CLS). The NMM is
   populated and managed by HQ AFSPC Directorate of Air, Space and Cyberspace Operations
   (HQ AFSPC/A3) based on HQ AFSPC Division/Branch and other user inputs, funding
   requirements and analyses conducted by the LSO. The lengthy planning timeline includes
   periodic satellite assessments to evaluate constellation health, which is then reported to the
   Current Launch Schedule Review Board (CLSRB). The CLSRB, chaired by 14 AF, assigns
   and manages launches on the CLS.
   2.2. Launch-on-Demand. A launch-on-demand strategy is envisioned for use when an on-
   orbit capability must be restored quickly or when existing capabilities require augmentation.
   This strategy would be key in a crisis, contingency or wartime situation. A launch-on-
   demand would deploy capabilities to fulfill an urgent need from Joint Forces Commanders
   (JFCs), other services or agencies. The urgent need process is outlined in USSTRATCOM
   Instruction (SI) 534-19, Operationally Responsive Space (ORS). AFI 63-114, Rapid
   Response Process, and AFSPCI 10-604, Space Operations Weapon System Management,
   outline AF and AFPSC processes for rapidly acquiring and fielding systems due to urgent
   needs.
   2.3. Employing Launch Strategies. A Launch-on-Schedule or Launch-on-Demand
   strategy could be used for a variety of reasons. The following paragraphs expand on Joint
   Publication (JP) 3-14, Joint Doctrine for Space Operations, and Air Force Doctrine
   Document (AFDD) 3-14, Space Operations, to describe launches required to deploy a new
   capability, sustain or augment an existing capability, or reconstitute a failed capability.
       2.3.1. Launch to Deploy (LTD). These launches deploy new capabilities, establish new
       constellations and are used for a variety of research and development launches. LTD is
       used to achieve a satellite system’s initial designed operational capability (DOC). LTD
       launches employ a launch-on-schedule strategy.
       2.3.2. Launch to Sustain (LTS). LTS is used to maintain the DOC of a constellation by
       replacing satellites that are predicted to fail. Planning and executing replacement
       launches for operational constellations employs a launch-on-schedule strategy.
       2.3.3. Launch to Reconstitute (LTR). LTR is likely to be the most urgent request for a
       launch. These launches are needed to respond to an unanticipated satellite failure and
       restore lost capabilities of an operational constellation to maintain DOC. If an on-orbit
       capability fails abruptly and an urgent need for a launch is required to restore the
 4                                                    AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


        capability, it may require employing a launch-on-demand strategy. If the capability
        cannot be restored quickly, a launch-on-schedule strategy may be used.
        2.3.4. Launch to Augment (LTA). LTA is envisioned to increase operational capability
        above the DOC in response to war, crisis or contingency. This approach is considered in
        conjunction with other systems that may provide similar capabilities (i.e., non-space or
        non-launch alternatives). A launch-on-demand strategy is expected to be used for LTA
        capabilities in the future. However, current timelines may require employing a launch-
        on-schedule strategy.
3. Launch Services Office (LSO) and Launch Information Support Network (LISN).
     3.1. Launch Services Office. The LSO provides centralized scheduling, forecasting,
     constellation sustainment modeling and maintains launch history. The LSO is the focal point
     for all United States launches. Contact the LSO at afspc.a3r.lso@us.af.milor 719-554-3558
     (DSN 692-3558).
     3.2. Launch Information Support Network (LISN). LISN is the official launch
     scheduling system for all launches from the United States. LISN, managed and maintained
     by HQ AFSPC in the LSO, provides a collaborative, centralized, reporting tool to manage
     US space launch scheduling, forecasting, launch history, constellation sustainment modeling
     and current operations information.
        3.2.1. Information reported in LISN includes scheduling status and major milestones of
        all major launch systems, range or pad maintenance, and other mission related significant
        events. LISN is routinely referenced to answer senior leader and HHQ questions and to
        support decisions affecting resource allocation through the Planning Programming
        Budgeting and Execution (PPBE) process. This information is vital to ensuring
        leadership at all levels remains informed.
        3.2.2. LISN Website Uniform Resource Locators (URL).
3.2.2.1. Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNET) is used to submit up to For
Official Use Only (FOUO) and Proprietary (PROPIN) information. Access to this website is
controlled with Public Key Infrastructure via a US Government Common Access Car d (CAC) or
External Certificate Authority.
3.2.2.2. Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) is used to submit up to Secret
information.
4. Scheduling and Forecasting Products.
     4.1. Current Launch Schedule (CLS) Report. The CLS is a fiscal-year-based, 48-month
     projection of spacelift launches on the ER and WR. The first two years of the CLS are
     reported through weekly distribution. The third and fourth years are used for planning
     purposes. 14 AF is responsible for the CLS.
        4.1.1. An “Executable Launch Schedule” consists of range approved dates and is a
        subset of the 48-month CLS. The Executable Launch Schedule provides direction to the
        Space Wing Commanders to execute approved UCC missions and provide support to
        other approved DoD, NRO, civil and commercial missions. It is further defined as all of
        the following:
AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                   5


           4.1.1.1. A schedule that reflects the availability of all necessary resources required to
           support scheduled launches. These resources include: personnel (launch crews,
           mission assurance personnel, etc.), materiel (Flight Termination System batteries,
           Solid Rocket Motors, handling adapters, etc.), infrastructure (Payload Processing
           Facilities, radars and other range equipment, launch vehicle processing facilities,
           etc.), and support vehicles (payload transport equipment, launch support
           aircraft/boats, etc.).
           4.1.1.2. A schedule that is funded within the PPBE process.
4.1.1.3. A schedule that does not conflict with scheduled launches from other ranges, pads or
scheduled launches from the same pad within prescribed time centers for each launch pad.
Information on launch constraints and other factors affecting launch centers is provided in the
CLSRB Launch Scheduling Factors List (CLSFL) located at . The CLSFL is a guideline for
planning purposes only and is not an authoritative document. For specific planning guidance,
consult the appropriate mission planner(s)/manager(s).
           4.1.1.4. A schedule that does not conflict with activities listed on the CLS, such as
           range/launch pad maintenance/modification periods, range tests, etc.
           4.1.1.5. A schedule that does not contain launch dates that the Space Wing
           Commander (SW/CC) has determined to be unattainable, i.e., “placeholder” launch
           dates, etc.
   4.2. National Mission Model (NMM) Report. HQ AFSPC/A3 is responsible for the
   NMM. The NMM is a seven-year, fiscal forecast of all national (DoD, NRO, civil and
   commercial) missions/spacecraft requiring a launch on the ER and WR. It begins at the
   conclusion of the CLS. The NMM Report is the most current mission projection based on
   official sources, such as space vehicle (SV) programmatic decisions/availability, Program
   Objective Memorandum (POM) submissions, program budget reviews, Congressional marks,
   etc. The NMM is used to establish baseline launch capability and determine the number of
   future HQ AFSPC-funded launches. Launch requirements are provided by the appropriate
   program Point of Contact (POC), e.g. Program Element Monitors (PEMs) at HQ AFSPC or
   designated representative from external organization, for missions on the program of record.
   Planning documentation, such as the Core Function Master Plan (CFMP), may be used for
   missions in the more distant future.
   4.3. AFSPC Program Data Call Report. HQ AFSPC/A3 is responsible for the Program
   Data Call. The AFSPC Program Data Call Report is a fiscal-based, launch forecast report
   displaying HQ AFSPC missions requiring launch. It begins at the conclusion of the CLS and
   extends seven years. These constrained requirements are collected by HQ AFSPC/A3SR at
   least annually and results are used to support the PPBE cycle.
   4.4. NLF Report. HQ AFSPC/A3 is responsible for the NLF. The NLF Report is a
   projection of launches in each fiscal year from the ER and WR. It begins at the conclusion of
   the CLS and extends seven years. The NLF Report is the most current launch projection
   based on official sources, such as launch vehicle (LV) programmatic decisions/availability,
   Program Objective Memorandum (POM) submissions, program budget reviews,
   Congressional marks, etc.         Launch vehicle requirements are determined by HQ
   AFSPC/A3SR after assessing Program Data Call results. Planning documentation, such as
 6                                                      AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


     the Core Function Master Plan (CFMP), may be used for launch requirements in the more
     distant future.
     4.5. Launch History Report. HQ AFSPC/A3 is responsible for the Launch History Report.
     The Launch History Report is an historical record of launches from the ER and WR. This
     report includes mission and launch date by calendar year.
     4.6. National Security Space (NSS) Report. HQ AFSPC/A3 is responsible for the NSS
     Report. The NSS Report is an historical record of launches contributing to national security.
     It can include AFSPC, MDA, Navy, NOAA and NRO spacelift missions since the last NSS
     failure. This report does not include suborbital, NASA, Research and Development, or
     commercial missions.
     4.7. Space Vehicle (SV) Initial Launch Capability (ILC) Report. The SV ILC Report
     displays SV mission(s) and associated date(s) indicating the earliest each mission is available
     for launch (independent of the launch vehicle), including shipping to the launch site and
     nominal processing time. Confidence level in ability to achieve ILC is included in this
     report. Other information may be selected, such as mission owner, launch location, etc. HQ
     AFSPC/A3 is responsible for the SV ILC Report; although SMC/LR may enter SV ILC and
     confidence level information for satellites under SMC responsibility.
     4.8. Commander’s Launch Update Report. The Commander’s Launch Update Report is a
     six-month projection of launches on the ER and WR.
5. General Responsibilities and Procedures for Updating LISN.
     5.1. Personnel Authorized to Update LISN. LISN updates are accomplished by appointed
     personnel within 30 SW and 45 SW, JSpOC, 14 AF and SMC’s Launch and Range Systems
     Directorate (SMC/LR) and Space Development Test Directorate (SMC/SD). Applicable unit
     Commanders/Directors will appoint a primary and alternate LISN POC in writing, as well as
     any other individuals authorized to update LISN information. Appointment letters will be
     sent to HQ AFSPC/A3SR for routing to the LSO. LISN Administrators will grant
     appropriate privileges to authorized individuals based on specific updating/reporting
     requirements.
     5.2. LISN Update Overview. LISN information is input/updated electronically through the
     LISN website. Units will provide updates to mission status and report significant events at
     spacelift launch sites, processing facilities and ranges.
     5.3. Data Classification. Regular updates will be provided at the lowest appropriate
     classification level of LISN. The appropriate classification level will be selected for each
     entry.
     5.4. Time Reference. All LISN dates/times must be in ZULU.
     5.5. Launch Change Requests. Launch Change Requests (LCRs) are used to move launch
     dates or change mission status in LISN. When submitting a LCR, the proper category must
     be selected and a brief, descriptive reason for the change must be specified.
     5.6. Milestones. Milestones are used to represent major mission events, their planning dates
     and/or completion dates.
AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                              7


   5.7. Comments. Comments are brief, descriptive narratives of events impacting or possibly
   impacting milestones and/or launch date. They are used to describe an event or update a
   previous event with what occurred, reason for change, extenuating circumstances, etc.
   Comments should not be repeated, but enhanced to give a running history of events.
   5.8. Mission Details. Mission details include, at a minimum, mission name, launch vehicle,
   alternate name (if applicable), launch site, mission description and mission owner.
   5.9. Post-Launch Status. Post-launch status (success/failure/abort) is submitted via an
   LCR. For a launch abort, indicate new launch date with reason(s) specified in comments.
   5.10. Time Requirements.
      5.10.1. As the official launch scheduling system for all US launches, it is essential for
      LISN to maintain the most accurate information possible in order to prioritize, schedule
      and forecast launches to best meet national security requirements.
      5.10.2. Units are required to update LISN on normal duty days. Ideally, LISN updates
      should be accomplished as events occur, but are required NLT 0900 local, the following
      duty day (unless otherwise annotated in Table 1) to allow publication/distribution of the
      CLS on a weekly basis. See Table 1 for a summary of events and requirements to be
      entered/updated in LISN.

Table 1. LISN Entry/Update Requirements
ITEM /                  EVENT AND ENTRY/UPDATE REQUIREMENT
INFORMATION
                                     Pending Date – Upon request from launch customer, for
                                     missions on the CLS
                                     Indefinite Status – Upon request from launch customer or
                        Submitted    upon AFSPC/CC, 14 AF/CC or appropriate SW/CC
Launch Change
                                     direction
Request
                                     Planning Date – Upon a change that impacts existing
                                     launch date, for missions on the CLS
                                     Upon signature of approval authority
                        Approved
                                     Within 5 days of pending status
                        Created      At Booster on Stand (or equivalent)
                                     Upon milestone date change
Milestones              Updated
                                     Upon milestone completion
                                     Upon launch date change
Comments                Created      Upon significant event occurrence
                        Created      Upon identification of new mission
Mission Details                      For NMM Timeframe – annually (at Program Data Call)
                        Updated
                                     For CLS Timeframe – monthly
                                     Upon Launch – within 3 hrs
Post Launch             Created
                                     See Attachment 1 for launch success definition
 8                                                   AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


     5.11. Operational Reporting. LISN is not used in lieu of normal staff actions that are the
     subject of separate correspondence. Units will submit all required reports IAW AFI 10-
     206_AFSPCSUP_I, Operational Reporting, and/or AFI 10-201_AFSPCSUP_I, Status of
     Resources and Training System
6. Organizational Responsibilities.
     6.1. Air, Space and Cyberspace Operations Director (HQ AFSPC/A3) shall:
        6.1.1. Maintain overall responsibility for the NMM and NLF and manage the launch
        scheduling process.
        6.1.2. Attend CLSRB to provide MAJCOM perspective concerning organize, train, and
        equip responsibilities in developing the CLS.
        6.1.3. Provide launch service/launch capability direction to AFPEO/SL, with courtesy
        copies provided to SMC/LR and 14 AF/CC, for the procurement of launch
        services/launch capability to support the CLS requirements.
     6.2. Launch, Ranges and Networks Branch (HQ AFSPC/A3SR) shall:
        6.2.1. Provide a collaborative, centralized, reporting tool to manage US space launch
        scheduling, forecasting, launch history, constellation sustainment modeling and current
        operations information.
        6.2.2. Operate and maintain the LSO.
6.2.3. Forecasting. Maintain the NMM and NLF and serve as the primary interface to HQ
AFSPC launch and range customers for the NMM, NLF and Program Data Call (HQ AFSPC and
Interagency). Execute the forecasting process and publish the NMM and NLF, as defined in
Paragraph 7. Make published versions available to authorized users on the LISN web page at .
            6.2.3.1. Conduct annual Program Data Call to collect mission launch requirements on
            the ER and WR and AFSPC requirements on other ranges. Update LISN
            accordingly. Provide Program Data Call Report results to SMC/LR, SMC/SD, 14
            AF/A3 and HQ AFSPC/A8.
            6.2.3.2. In LISN, create new SVs and missions with appropriate mission details and
            submit LCRs to update SV/mission status according to Program Data Call and other
            appropriate user requests.
        6.2.4. Scheduling. Manage the scheduling process. Support 14 AF, SMC, 30 SW and
        45 SW in maintaining and producing the CLS. Publish the CLS. Distribute the
        CLS/make published versions available to authorized users.
            6.2.4.1. At 14 AF/A3 approval, implement CLSRB decisions to include: reassigning
            missions from NMM to CLS or CLS to NMM; assigning primary missions to slots;
            assigning backup missions to slots; adding exceptions to indicate downselect
            decisions.
            6.2.4.2. Submit LCRs assigning proper status.
            6.2.4.3. Submit LCRs maintaining/managing planning dates and input comments for
            missions other than SMC/LR-responsible launch vehicles.
AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                    9


           6.2.4.4. Attend and support relevant launch scheduling meetings, including CLSRB
           and preparatory meetings, satellite assessment meetings, etc.
6.2.4.5. Maintain and coordinate information on launch constraints and other factors affecting
launch turn-around times. Currently, this information is provided in the CLSFL located at
           6.2.4.6. Ensure LISN maintains LV ILC dates, SV ILC dates and associated
           confidence levels in achieving the SV ILC. Update comments when changes occur.
           6.2.4.7. Update CLS launch slots in LISN based on most current information from
           SMC/LR and SMC/SD, as appropriate, with approval from 14 AF/A3.
           6.2.4.8. Monitor the SMC Launch Commit Review process and provide guidance, as
           required. Coordinate and schedule Launch Commit Review briefing to AFSPC/CC.
       6.2.5. Modeling. Accomplish mission modeling IAW AFSPCI 10-140, Satellite
       Functional Availability Planning, to assist appropriate HQ AFSPC Directors/Branches in
       identifying launch requirements for the annual Program Data Call and/or NMM,
       exploring excursions for funding drills, accomplishing Functional Availability Reports
       and other purposes, as required by Directors/Branches.
       6.2.6. History. Provide ER and WR launch history, including launch slips (beginning
       2004). See also paragraph 4.5
       6.2.7. LISN Website. Maintain and manage LISN website and information posted
       to/stored on/retrieved from it.
           6.2.7.1. Serve as a help desk to solve technical issues with the LISN website and to
           provide user assistance.
           6.2.7.2. Maintain and manage an electronic data collection, storage system and
           reports.
           6.2.7.3. Maintain LISN website code, database structures and appropriate
           documentation.
           6.2.7.4. Perform software testing and ensure identified security requirements are met.
           6.2.7.5. Provide host with certification and accreditation information, as requested.
           6.2.7.6. Review all new LISN requirements and estimate the level of effort to fulfill
           each new requirement. If the requirement does not exceed resource availability, it
           will be prioritized and an estimated completion date will be provided to the requester.
           6.2.7.7. On normal duty days, perform daily file transfer from NIPRNET to
           SIPRNET.
           6.2.7.8. Develop and provide LISN training to users, as requested.
   6.3. HQ AFSPC Divisions/Branches for Space Programs (HQ AFSPC/A3SC/
   A3SF/A3SM/A5C/A5F/A5M/A5R) shall:
       6.3.1. Actively participate in and provide POCs for the Program Data Call and NMM
       process.
10                                                    AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


            6.3.1.1. Ensure launch mission forecasts for each satellite program are reconciled
            with applicable agencies prior to submission for the Program Data Call/NMM.
            Provide reconciled information to HQ AFSPC/A3SR upon request.
        6.3.2. Provide representation to and participate in 14 AF satellite assessments for UCC
        constellations.
        6.3.3. For missions/constellations not included in 14 AF satellite assessments, provide
        SV assessment results and recommendations to the DoD Priorities Meeting, as requested
        by 14 AF or HQ AFSPC/A3SR.
        6.3.4. Provide recommendations to 14 AF on movement of missions from the NMM
        onto the CLS.
        6.3.5. Validate mission requirements for launch and assist HQ AFSPC/A3SR with
        launch advocacy, as needed.
        6.3.6. Coordinate with appropriate program offices to ensure the most accurate SV ILC
        dates are reflected in LISN.
        6.3.7. Coordinate with appropriate program offices and external agencies to capture and
        ensure accuracy of small lift and auxiliary payload data.
     6.4. 14th Air Force (14 AF) shall:
        6.4.1. Implement a process to assess the status of UCC resources. The satellite
        assessments must include constellation health for the entire period addressed by the
        CLSRB, SV requirement, SV ILC, confidence level in achieving the ILC date, satellite
        location, ground equipment/station availability and any applicable funding
        considerations.
        6.4.2. Implement a process that establishes a semi-annual CLSRB and includes out-of-
        cycle CLSRBs, as necessary. See paragraph 8. for more details on the CLSRB process.
            6.4.2.1. 14 AF/CC will serve as Chair of the CLSRB. Other CLSRB board members
            are HQ AFSPC/A3, SMC/CV, NRO, NASA and the Federal Aviation Administration
            (FAA). Invitations to the CLSRB should include other applicable launch customers,
            such as Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), MDA, etc. In
            addition, invite commercial launch service providers and other customers to represent
            their interests if they have launches projected during the review period.
            6.4.2.2. Schedule the CLSRB semi-annually. Conduct one meeting just prior to the
            start of each Government fiscal year.
            6.4.2.3. Move missions from the NMM onto the CLS. If a mission on the CLS is no
            longer feasible for launch during the CLS timeframe, move the mission to the NMM,
            as appropriate.
            6.4.2.4. Review satellite, launch and resource assessment results, considering SV
            ILC and confidence level in achieving the ILC dates.
               6.4.2.4.1. Ensure launch vehicle assessments appropriate for the CLSRB review
               period are available at the GEEB, GIM and CLSRB, as appropriate, to include
               non-government missions.
AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                          11


           6.4.2.4.2. Ensure range and resource assessments appropriate for the CLSRB
           review period are available at the GIM and CLSRB. Resource assessments assess
           range and resource status, including personnel, range down time, payload
           processing facility availability and any applicable funding considerations.
           6.4.2.4.3. Ensure DoD satellite assessment results appropriate for the CLSRB
           review period are available to the DoD Priorities meeting, GEEB, GIM and
           CLSRB, as appropriate.        Satellite assessment results will include SV
           requirements, SV ILC with a confidence level in achieving the ILC date, any
           applicable funding considerations and any other necessary information to
           determine launch requirements and readiness.
           6.4.2.4.4. Ensure other satellite/mission assessment results appropriate for the
           CLSRB review period are available at the GIM.
        6.4.2.5. Assign an OPR for the Launch Commit Review process. Conduct
        assessments of relevant ground/control systems and operations readiness for each
        mission in the designated timeframe. Provide assessment results to the SMC OPR for
        inclusion in the Launch Commit Review report/briefing.
        6.4.2.6. Conduct the DoD Priorities Meeting. Review 14 AF and other DoD satellite
        assessment results and recommendations. Establish DoD launch priorities through
        the entire CLS timeframe. Provide DoD priorities to the GEEB, GIM and CLSRB.
        6.4.2.7. Conduct a GIM prior to the CLSRB to ensure all appropriate information is
        available and reviewed and all issues are addressed for the entire CLS timeframe.
        Review all assessment results, priorities, COAs and constraints and make appropriate
        scheduling decisions at the GIM, as delegated by 14 AF/CC.
        6.4.2.8. Examine all assessment results, including readiness, and consider national
        priorities when assigning primary and backup missions to launch opportunities/slots
        and launch dates. Carefully manage overbooking to optimize available launch
        opportunities. Nominal downselect/assignment timeframes are outlined below:
           6.4.2.8.1. In months L-37 – L-48, move required missions from the CLS to the
           NMM and move missions from the NMM to the CLS. This year is used for
           planning purposes only. Missions will be overbooked against notional slots in
           this timeframe.
           6.4.2.8.2. Assign multiple missions to slots between L-25 – L-36. This year is
           used for planning purposes as slots begin to solidify. Mission overbooking
           continues in this timeframe.
           6.4.2.8.3. Determine one primary mission per launch slot within L-19 – L-24.
           This is the earliest timeframe for designating primary missions. Multiple backup
           missions may be assigned to these slots.
           6.4.2.8.4. Select one primary mission per slot within L-13 – L-18. Each slot in
           this timeframe must have a primary mission, with multiple backup missions
           possible per slot.
           6.4.2.8.5. Select one primary mission and no more than one backup mission per
           slot NLT L-12 months. Other backup missions are released for assessment at the
12                                                    AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


               next available slot.
               6.4.2.8.6. Assign a single mission to each slot NLT L-6 months prior to launch.
               The backup mission is released for assessment at the next available slot.
           6.4.2.9. Approve the CLS and provide the CLS to Space Wings for execution.
           6.4.2.10. Provide the Executable Launch Schedule to 30 SW and 45 SW.
               6.4.2.10.1. Ensure approved launch dates are executable. If a launch date is no
               longer executable, inform the appropriate Space Wing (and other applicable
               agencies) and coordinate the launch date/status change.
           6.4.2.11. Codify CLSRB decisions in meeting minutes within 30 days. Distribute
           minutes to HQ AFSPC/A3, SMC/CV/LR, NRO, NASA and FAA.
        6.4.3. Designate in writing to HQ AFSPC/A3SR a primary and alternate LISN POC as
        well as any other individuals authorized to update LISN information.
           6.4.3.1. Submit LCRs to maintain planning dates on the CLS.
        6.4.4. Supplement this instruction to include procedures for CLSRB, satellite, launch and
        resource assessment processes.
     6.5. Space Wings (30 SW and 45 SW) shall:
        6.5.1. Execute the launch schedule as developed by the CLSRB. Elevate unresolved
        scheduling conflicts to 14 AF, as required.
        6.5.2. Ensure a process is developed and executed to change launch dates/status when an
        approved date is no longer executable. Coordinate significant scheduling actions as
        stated in Attachment 1.
        6.5.3. Ensure LCRs are approved within 5 days of submission.
        6.5.4. Implement/document a process to assess range and resource status, including
        personnel, range down time, launch facility, payload processing facility availability and
        any applicable funding considerations. At the direction of 14 AF, provide assessment
        results to the GIM/CLSRB.
        6.5.5. Provide launch constraints for Space Wing-managed resources to HQ
        AFSPC/A3SR for inclusion in the CLSFL.
        6.5.6. For the Range Operations Squadron (ROPS), designate in writing a primary and
        alternate LISN POC to HQ AFSPC/A3SR, as well as any other individuals authorized to
        update LISN information.
           6.5.6.1. Determine and report launch operations, scheduled launch dates and other
           major launch processing milestones not reported via paragraph 6.5.7.1, through the
           LISN.
           6.5.6.2. Input LCRs assigning mission status of “approved” or “indefinite,” range
           maintenance, and launch results for their respective ranges to ensure an accurate CLS.
           6.5.6.3. Post timely LCRs to LISN to ensure accuracy. Nominally, LCRs will be
           processed as events occur, but are required NLT 0900 local, the following duty day,
AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                            13


        unless annotated in Table 1       Delays are authorized if external agency/range
        coordination is required.
        6.5.6.4. Ensure all information entered in LISN is complete, accurate and remains
        current. Data review intervals are provided in Table 1
     6.5.7. For the Space Launch Squadrons (SLSs), Launch Support Squadron (LCSS) and
     1st Air and Space Test Squadron (1 ASTS), designate in writing to HQ AFSPC/A3SR a
     primary and alternate LISN POC as well as any other individuals authorized to update
     LISN information.
        6.5.7.1. Input mission details, milestones and comments for respective missions
        through LISN.
        6.5.7.2. Interface with SMC/LR or SMC/SD, as appropriate, on launch processing
        issues at the launch base that may impact the launch schedule.
        6.5.7.3. Ensure all information entered in LISN is complete, accurate and remains
        current. Data review intervals are provided in Table 1
  6.6. Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC) shall:
     6.6.1. Implement and manage the Launch Commit Review process to assess risk in LV
     readiness, SV readiness, ground/control system readiness and operations readiness.
     Maintain administrative control over the Launch Commit Review process.
        6.6.1.1. Conduct independent assessments (Currently known as Launch Commit
        Review assessments that are independent from program offices) for SV readiness, LV
        readiness and ground/control system readiness NLT 14 days prior to the GEEB.
        Specify in a supplement to this document a confidence/risk level rating system to
        reflect the ability of a launch mission to meet its Target Launch Date (TLD). Risk
        will be categorized as “High Confidence,” “Confident,” “Advisory” or “Low
        Confidence.”
            6.6.1.1.1. Assess launches within L-18 months, concentrating on those after L-6
            months. Use CLSRB-assigned dates/launch opportunities as a baseline to
            formulate reviews of required data.
        6.6.1.2. Prepare Launch Commit Review results briefing for presentation to
        AFSPC/CC. Include 14 AF operational/ground/control readiness information in the
        briefing. Briefing will indicate separate assessment results of the four specific risk
        areas and overall confidence assessment result of each mission’s ability to meet the
        TLD within the designated CLS timeframe.
     6.6.2. As member of the CLSRB, the SMC/CV will certify LV/SV ILC and associated
     confidence levels under SMC purview and previously provided by Program Directors to
     the LSO.
     6.6.3. Provide launch constraints for SMC-managed launch vehicles and spacecraft to
     HQ AFSPC/A3SR for inclusion in the CLSFL.
     6.6.4. Supplement this instruction to include procedures for independent assessment
     process for HQ AFSPC-funded spacecraft and launch vehicles as well as procedures for
     determining SV/LV ILC and associated SV confidence levels.
14                                                    AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


        6.6.5. Support 14 AF satellite assessments. Provide SV acquisition and technical flight
        worthiness considerations to support 14 AF operational constellation assessments.
        6.6.6. Implement SMC’s process to determine confidence level in SV ILC dates.
        6.6.7. Provide the LSO with SV ILC dates and associated confidence levels.
           6.6.7.1. Submit a memorandum to HQ AFSPC/A3SR LSO NLT two weeks prior to
           each satellite assessment supporting a CLSRB cycle. This memorandum formally
           declares SV ILC dates and confidence levels in anticipation of DoD priority
           assessments and CLSRB launch scheduling decisions. Memorandum will include a
           primary and alternate point of contact.
           6.6.7.2. Changes to SV ILC dates and confidence levels previously specified via
           memorandum will be communicated to the LSO at the earliest opportunity following
           the change. Changes may be communicated via email to the LSO organizational
           mailbox at or by calling LSO at DSN 692-3558.
           6.6.7.3. Coordinate significant scheduling actions as stated in Attachment 1.
        6.6.8. Ensure information entered in LISN is complete, accurate and remains current.
        Data review intervals are provided in Table 1.
     6.7. SMC Launch Vehicle Directorates/Organizations (in Conjunction with AFPEO/SL).
        6.7.1. Purchase launch services/launch capability to support the launch schedule,
        national mission model, national launch forecast and any LTD, LTS, LTR and LTA
        requirements, per HQ AFSPC/A3 direction.
        6.7.2. Implement SMC’s process to assess the status of launch vehicles acquired by SMC
        program offices.
           6.7.2.1. Provide launch assessment results to support the GEEB, GIM and CLSRB.
           The launch assessments must include the following: launch throughput, all
           constraints, launch vehicle readiness and ILC, launch pad availability, ground
           equipment availability, all liens with resolution date and any applicable funding
           constraints.
        6.7.3. Support and facilitate the GEEB to examine launch requirements, priorities,
        programmatic issues and available launch opportunities. Develop various courses of
        action as determined at the GEEB for review/consideration at the GIM/CLSRB.
        6.7.4. Designate in writing to HQ AFSPC/A3SR a primary and alternate LISN POC as
        well as any other individuals authorized to update LISN information.
           6.7.4.1. Submit LCRs to maintain planning dates and input comments in LISN for
           missions on SMC-responsible launch vehicles.
           6.7.4.2. Ensure LV ILC dates are current and changes are entered in LISN at the
           earliest opportunity. Entries can be made, with appropriate access, using the LISN
           website at (NIPRNET) or (SIPRNET), by emailing the organizational mailbox at , or
           by calling the LSO at DSN 692-3558.
           6.7.4.3. Coordinate significant scheduling actions as stated in Attachment 1.
AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                               15


       6.7.5. Ensure information entered in LISN is complete, accurate and remains current.
       Data review intervals are provided in Table 1.
       6.7.6. Provide launch slot information throughout the CLS timeframe to HQ
       AFSPC/A3SR.
       6.7.7. Provide forecast information for missions requiring launches to HQ AFSPC/A3SR
       at each Program Data Call or NMM request for information.
       6.7.8. Provide Test and Development support concerning missions/resources, as
       appropriate, to all CLSRB preparatory meetings.
7. Forecasting Process. The launch forecasting process is an ongoing, long-range, planning
and programming process supporting production of the NMM and NLF. It is managed by HQ
AFSPC/A3SR and is necessary for funding advocacy for launch services and launch capability.
Launches on the ER and WR are forecasted within five to at least 11 years prior to launch.
Forecasting includes the following activities: HQ AFSPC/A3SR issues an annual Program Data
Call collecting all user requirements for future missions to be launched. The NMM is updated
with Program Data Call results. When all requirements are collected, HQ AFSPC/A3SR
finalizes the Program Data Call results with HQ AFSPC Directors/Branches and analyzes results
to validate current launch capacity and determine launch requirements across the Future Years
Defense Program (FYDP). The NLF is then updated in LISN. As changes occur throughout the
year, HQ AFSPC/A3SR ensures mission projections for launches are maintained in the most
currently projected fiscal year by updating missions in LISN due to official programmatic and
operational decisions. Figure 1 illustrates the relationship between launch forecasting and
launch scheduling timelines.

Figure 1. Launch Scheduling and Forecasting Timeline




   7.1. NMM and NLF. The primary forecasting product is the NMM, which is stored on
   LISN and maintained by HQ AFSPC/A3SR LSO. It is a projection of national space
 16                                                  AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


   missions, DoD, NRO, civil, other government and commercial, requiring launches from the
   ER and WR. The NMM displays missions within a given fiscal year, beginning five years in
   the future, or at the conclusion of the four-year CLS. HQ AFSPC/A3SR will manage the
   NMM according to user-provided predictions of launch requirements for their missions,
   constrained by fiscal and operational realities, then use the NMM to develop a projection of
   launches based on capability. This projection of launches per fiscal year is documented in
   the NLF. At every CLSRB, missions on the NMM are examined for possible transfer to the
   CLS and missions from the launch schedule may be returned to the NMM if requirements,
   readiness or priorities change accordingly.
   7.2. Mission Launch Requirements Collection.
       7.2.1. HQ AFSPC Program Data Call. All HQ AFSPC programs requiring launch will
       submit their constrained mission requirements to HQ AFSPC/A3SR during the annual
       Program Data Call. A POC for each satellite program will be assigned by appropriate
       HQ AFSPC Division Chief. POCs will be contacted by HQ AFSPC/A3SR to provide
       mission requirements. All associated organizations should funnel their requirements
       through the HQ AFSPC program POC. The data call will be published by HQ
       AFSPC/A3SR and posted on LISN.
       7.2.2. Interagency Data Call. HQ AFSPC/A3SR will work with non-AFSPC customers,
       including other government agencies and launch service providers, to collect their
       missions requiring launch. Requirements will be collected from NRO and NASA, as
       well as other government agencies such as MDA, Air Force Global Strike Command
       (AFGSC), US Army, US Navy, etc. The FAA provides a commercial projection.
       Results of this data call are stored in LISN.
   7.3. NMM Analysis and Determining LV Requirements/Capability. Analysis of the
   NMM feeds production of the NLF, which is stored on LISN. Mission requirements are
   examined to determine launch services and launch capability needed through the FYDP.
   Early identification of requirements is best to align launch need with contract actions and
   purchasing. Determining launch services/launch capability is key in the AF corporate
   process to develop POM inputs and an AFSPC advocacy plan to fund the NLF. The
   President’s Budget finalizes the number of launches to be purchased by AFSPC and the NLF
   is updated in LISN.
8. Scheduling Process. HQ AFSPC/A3 manages the four-year scheduling process, which is
executed by 14 AF in coordination with SMC. The semi-annual CLSRB, chaired by 14 AF/CC,
is the governing body for launch scheduling and approval of the CLS. However, scheduling is
usually very dynamic, requiring constant attention outside the CLSRB. Between CLSRBs, the
30 SW and 45 SW execute the CLS and 14 AF/A3, HQ AFSPC/A3SR and SMC coordinate on a
daily basis to address issues as they arise. The CLSRB is the final determining body for launch
assignment if a conflict cannot be resolved at a lower level. Launches from sites other than 30
SW and 45 SW might be addressed by the CLSRB if there are conflicts with other
missions/assets. 14 AF/CC may convene an out-of-cycle CLSRB if a significant scheduling
decision is required prior to the regularly scheduled meeting. SMC and the Space Wings share
responsibility for entering information onto the CLS. SMC enters planning dates for missions as
the LV acquisition is planned and refined. 30 OG and 45 OG personnel interface with range
customers and maintain their respective schedules by entering/updating launch dates and
AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                              17


associated information in LISN. 30 LCG and 45 LCG personnel enter and update milestones and
comments for respective missions as activities progress toward launch. Accuracy and currency
of information contained in LISN and reflected on the CLS is essential for effective national
security decisions. Therefore, all individuals and organizations entering launch related
information in LISN are responsible for accuracy.
   8.1. Current Launch Schedule Review Board (CLSRB) Process. The CLSRB occurs on
   a semi-annual basis to solidify and approve the CLS and produce an executable launch
   schedule based on national priorities. The CLSRB process includes assessing LV and SV
   readiness in achieving a launch date and available resources. Priorities are established and
   reviewed then missions are assigned launch opportunities and launch dates. Independent
   assessments are conducted to validate readiness. Figure 2 illustrates the CLSRB Process.

Figure 2. CLSRB Process




       8.1.1. Satellite Assessments. DoD satellite assessments review readiness, status,
       requirements and need. They are accomplished for the entire CLS timeframe. Results
       are used for DoD mission prioritization, COA development and GIM/CLSRB decisions.
       HQ AFSPC operational missions are the responsibility of 14 AF. 14 AF will ensure
       appropriate NRO, civil and commercial assessment results with appropriate level of detail
       are provided to the GIM/CLSRB. The satellite assessment process will be documented in
       a 14 AF supplement to this instruction.
18                                                   AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


     8.1.2. Prioritization Review. Prioritization issues will be discussed, as necessary, leading
     into CLSRB decisions that will solidify the executable launch schedule and adjust the
     remainder of the CLS. 14AF/A3 prioritizes DoD missions. NASA and NRO prioritize
     their respective missions. Other launch customers, including those flying from other
     ranges schedule or asset sharing conflicts with ER/WR missions, are encouraged to
     prioritize their missions for consideration at the GIM/CLSRB. Most DoD, NASA and
     NRO priorities are reviewed at the GEEB and all priorities are considered in launch
     decisions made at the GIM and CLSRB.
     8.1.3. Launch Assessments.       Launch assessments evaluate the status of LVs.
     Assessment results are required at the GEEB leading to Government COA discussions at
     the GIM and CLSRB prior to assigning missions to slots/LVs and finalizing the launch
     schedule. 14 AF will ensure all appropriate launch assessment results not required at the
     GEEB are available to the GIM and CLSRB, with the appropriate level of detail for
     decision-making. The launch assessment process will be documented in 14 AF and
     SMC, as appropriate, supplements to this instruction.
     8.1.4. Resource Assessments. Resource assessments evaluate range, launch facility,
     payload processing facility, personnel and resource status, including range down time and
     any applicable funding considerations. Assessment results will be provided to the GIM
     and CLSRB. 14 AF will document resource assessment process in a supplement to this
     instruction.
     8.1.5. Launch Commit Review. SMC conducts a Launch Commit Review as an
     independent (independent from program offices) process, which provides an enterprise-
     wide assessment used to inform launch slot allocation decisions for the CLSRB. Risk is
     assessed in four areas: LV readiness, SV readiness, ground/control system readiness and
     operations readiness. SMC performs SV, LV and appropriate ground/control system
     assessments. 14 AF performs applicable ground/control systems and operational
     assessments and provides results to SMC. Assessment includes review of critical path
     schedule, margin, milestone progress, technical issues and available resources.
     Following the review and assessment, a confidence level is assigned reflecting the ability
     of a launch mission to meet the assigned launch opportunity. SMC briefs results to
     AFSPC/CC. The Launch Commit Review process will be documented further in 14 AF
     and SMC supplements to this instruction.
     8.1.6. GEEB. SMC/LR, NRO/OSL and NASA Launch Services Program (LSP)
     Directors jointly chair the GEEB. Members of the GEEB coordinate their respective
     EELV launch requirements, priorities, programmatic issues affecting available launch
     opportunities, and their organization’s perspective on potential firing orders to inform
     development of possible integrated courses of action to be assessed at the GIM and
     CLSRB. Other Government community members may be invited to the GEEB by any of
     the three principals in order to clarify organizational priorities or possible trades. The
     GEEB process will be documented further in an SMC supplement to this instruction.
     8.1.7. Government Integrated Meeting. The GIM is chaired by 14 AF/A3 with
     participation from HQ AFSPC/A3S, SMC/LR, NRO and NASA. The GIM is held just
     prior to the CLSRB to make scheduling decisions as directed by 14 AF/CC and queuing
     appropriate decisions for the CLSRB.
AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                             19


     8.1.8. Launch Assignments. The GIM and CLSRB will evaluate resulting requirements
     and constraints from the launch vehicle, satellite vehicle and resource assessments and
     consider national mission needs (priorities) to adjust/assign, as appropriate, launches on
     the CLS. Appropriate missions are moved from the NMM to the CLS and missions are
     overbooked within notional slots between L-25 to L-48 with no priority assignment.
     Slots within L-19 to L-24 may be assigned a primary mission and will have multiple
     backup missions. By L-12, all slots will have a primary mission and will have no more
     than one backup mission. At NLT L-6, only one primary mission is assigned. Every
     effort should be made to have only approved dates for all primary missions in the first 12
     months unless a launch assignment has been delayed by the 14 AF/CC. All missions on
     the CLS will be deconflicted to reflect proper separations between launches (use the
     CLSFL as a guideline). Further details on launch assignments will be documented in a
     14 AF supplement to this instruction.
     8.1.9. CLS Management. HQ AFSPC/A3SR enters and/or adjusts slots on the launch
     schedule based on the latest information from SMC. Each CLSRB will re-validate every
     launch opportunity to ensure assignment of the most appropriate mission(s). In the
     interest of national priorities, it may become necessary for the 14 AF/CC to direct a
     mission de-stacking operation to allow another mission to move forward to launch.
     Figure 3 illustrates the 48-month scheduling timeline. Further details on CLS
     management, including mission destacking, will be documented in a 14 AF supplement
     to this instruction.
 20                                                   AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


Figure 3. Current Launch Schedule Timeline




         8.1.10. CLS Approval. The CLSRB reviews and approves all launches on the CLS.
         When the CLSRB is adjourned, the CLS is approved and the approved dates on the CLS
         become the Executable Launch Schedule. While “approved” and “pending” dates are
         highly desirable within the first year of the CLS, the CLSRB Chair may choose to
         approve the CLS with “planning” and “indefinite” dates. CLSRB decisions are codified
         in minutes within 30 days. The Executable Launch Schedule directs the SW/CC to
         support the approved missions.
      8.2. Changes to the Current Launch Schedule (CLS) between CLSRB Meetings.
         8.2.1. Changes to Approved Launch Dates. The Space Wings approve changes to their
         launch schedule, normally within the first 24-months of the CLS. If a requested change
         constitutes a significant scheduling action as defined in Attachment 1, the SW/CC will
         coordinate with 14 AF/CC prior to implementation (see Attachment 1).
         8.2.2. Changes to Planning Dates. HQ AFSPC/A3SR and 14 AF, SMC (and JSpOC for
         Other Domestic Launches) will work with customers to change planning dates. If the
         requested change constitutes a significant scheduling action, coordinate with 14 AF/A3
         per Attachment 1.
AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                               21


       8.2.3. Out-of-cycle CLSRB. 14 AF may convene an out-of-cycle CLSRB when
       interagency communication is required to resolve significant scheduling actions or when
       a conflict cannot be resolved at a lower level.
   8.3. Preemption. If a government launch requirement results in preemption of a
   commercial mission, actions must be IAW Title 51 United States Code (USC) 50910 et. seq.,
   CSLA, as amended.
       8.3.1. AFSPC/CC will consult with Department of Transportation via the Associate
       Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation (FAA/AST) on preemption
       requirements/recommendations and prepare preemption rationale for Secretary of
       Defense preemption decision.
       8.3.2. All preemption decisions must be made by the Secretary of Defense (responsibility
       cannot be delegated) in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation.
       8.3.3. 14 AF/CC shall direct action according to Secretary of Defense preemption
       decision. The CLS will be updated accordingly.
   8.4. Other Domestic Launches. Authorized JSpOC members update LISN as a means to
   track and report other domestic launches for JSpOC use/awareness.
       8.4.1. JSpOC provides in writing to HQ AFSPC/A3SR a primary and alternate LISN
       POC as well as any other individuals authorized to update LISN information.
           8.4.1.1. For other domestic launches, JSpOC inputs all general mission details,
           mission description, milestones, LCRs and comments to include range maintenance,
           launch results, and significant events in LISN. Populate LISN at the appropriate
           security level (NIPRNET & SIPRNET) and ensure proper classification markings for
           all data entered. Other domestic launches are launches with a primary range other
           than ER or WR.
           8.4.1.2. JSpOC ensures information entered in LISN is current, following data
           review intervals provided in Table 1
           8.4.1.3. JSpOC also provides a 24-hour call center to answer questions concerning
           LISN data.
9. USAF Contingency Launches. USAF may use contingency launches to implement LTR and
LTA strategies. In contingency situations, consideration must be given to preemption set forth in
Title 51 USC 50910 and imminent contract modifications. Specific procedures are detailed in
the following paragraphs and Figure 4 illustrates the USAF launch contingency procedures.
 22                                                 AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


Figure 4. USAF Launch Contingency Procedures




   9.1. Schedule Responsibility. AFSPC/CC will have overall responsibility for the launch
   schedule and direct all launch activities from the ER and WR. This authority is normally
   delegated to the 14 AF/CC.
   9.2. Implementing Launch-On-Demand/Urgent Need. In the event of an unforeseen
   satellite failure or a need to augment a system above a constellation’s DOC, the Government
   may implement launch-on-demand strategy to respond to a war, crisis or contingency
   situation.
      9.2.1. Joint Task Forces (JTFs), services or other agencies will identify problems and
      needed capabilities via an existing urgent need request, such as a Joint Urgent
      Operational Need (JUON) or Evaluation Request Message (EReqM), to USSTRATCOM
      IAW SI 534-19.
      9.2.2. USSTRATCOM evaluates the request and determines urgency and priority of the
      need, as well as how best to fulfill the need. Requests requiring a launch outside the
      “urgent” time constraints per SI 534-19 will follow the normal scheduling process further
      detailed in this instruction. If USSTRATCOM determines the request can be fulfilled
      with a nominal ops solution, examples might be satellite repositioning, new methods for
      data collection/distribution and “triage” of on-orbit assets, then no launch is required.
AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                           23


     9.2.3. If HQ AFSPC solutions are needed, AFI 63-114 and AFSPCI 10-604 are the AF
     and HQ AFSPC instructions detailing the processes to rapidly acquire and field systems
     due to urgent needs. These launch requests will flow through HQ AFSPC and 14 AF.
     9.2.4. Urgent need requests will be prioritized and categorized and forwarded to the ORS
     Office upon CDRUSSTRATCOM approval.
     9.2.5. ORS Office will generate requirements, concepts and solutions per SI 534-19.
     Solutions will include identification of launch needs. ORS Office will coordinate all
     USAF ORS launch requirements with AFSPC/CC and will coordinate all urgent-need
     launch requirements with JSpOC.
     9.2.6. The JSpOC documents non-ER/WR launches in LISN, including urgent need
     launches, to provide situational awareness to JFCC-Space.
     9.2.7. 14 AF/CC will coordinate urgent launch needs on the ER or WR with the CLSRB
     members. 14 AF/CC will forward the results and recommendations to AFSPC/CC and
     USSTRATCOM, when appropriate, and identify launch execution conflicts or
     preemption requirements.
     9.2.8. If a contingency launch requirement results in preemption of a commercial
     mission, actions must be IAW Title 51 USC 50910 et. seq., CSLA, as amended. The
     CLS will be updated accordingly.




                                         DAVID J. BUCK, Brigadier General, USAF
                                         Director of Air, Space and Cyberspace Operations
 24                                                   AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
51 U.S.C. 50910 et seq, Commercial Space Launch Activities
Joint Publication 3-14, Joint Doctrine for Space Operations, 6 Jun 09
Air Force Doctrine Document 3-14, Space Operations, 19 Jun 12
USSTRATCOMI 534-19, Operationally Responsive Space, 19 Jun 08
AFDD 2-2, Space Operations, 27 Nov 06
AFPD 10-12, Space, 1 Feb 96
AFI 10-1201, Space Operations, 25 Jul 94
AFI 10-1211, Space Launch Operations, 17 Jul 06
AFI 63-114, Quick Reaction Capability Process, 4 Jan 11
AFI 10-201_AFSPCSUPI, Status of Resources and Training System, 5 May 10
AFI 10-206_AFSPCSUPI, Operational Reporting, 1 Apr 09
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 06
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
AFSPCI 10-140, Satellite Functional Availability Planning, 23 Aug 12
AFSPCI 10-604, Space Operations Weapon System Management, 1 Oct 07
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFPEO/SL—Air Force Program Executive Officer for Space Launch
AFS—Air Force Station
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFSPCI—Air Force Space Command Instruction
AFSTRAT—Air Forces Strategic
AOC—Air and space Operations Center
AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                   25


CC—Commander
CDR—Commander
CDRUSSTRATCOM—Commander, United States Strategic Command
CLS—Current Launch Schedule
CLSFL—CLSRB Launch Scheduling Factors List
CLSRB—Current Launch Schedule Review Board
DARPA—Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
DOC—Designed Operational Capability
DoD—Department of Defense
EELV—Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle
ER—Eastern Range
EReqM—Evaluation Request Message
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FYDP—Future Years Defense Program
GEEB—Government Expendable Launch Vehicle (ELV) Executive Board
GIM—Government Integrated Meeting
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IC—Intelligence Community
ILC—Initial Launch Capability
JFC—Joint Forces Command
J3—Joint Operations Directorate
J8—Joint Force Structure, Resources, and Assessment Directorate
JSpOC—Joint Air and Space Operations Center
JTF—Joint Task Force
JUON—Joint Urgent Operational Need
LCR—Launch Change Request
LISN—Launch Information Support Network
LR—Launch and Range Systems Directorate
LSO—Launch Services Office
LSP—(NASA) Launch Services Program
LTA—Launch to Augment
 26                                            AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


LTD—Launch to Deploy
LTR—Launch to Reconstitute
LTS—Launch to Sustain
LV—Launch Vehicle
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MDA—Missile Defense Agency
NASA—National Aeronautics and Space Administration
NLF—National Launch Forecast
NMM—National Mission Model
NRO—National Reconnaissance Office
NSS—National Security Space
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORS—Operationally Responsive Space
OSL—(NRO) Office of Space Launch
POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution
PROPIN—Proprietary Information
ROPS—Range Operations Squadron
SD—Space Development and Test Directorate
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
SMDC—(Army) Space and Missile Defense Command
SV—Space Vehicle
SW—Space Wing
TLD—Target Launch Date
UCC—Unified Combatant Command
URL—Uniform Resource Locator
USSTRATCOM—United States Strategic Command
WR—Western Range
AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                  27


Terms
Approved Launch Date—A launch date that has been approved by an approving official (i.e.
Wing Commander).
Backup Mission—As designated by the CLSRB, a mission that continues to process toward
launch in a specified launch slot/opportunity. Backup missions may be elevated to primary
mission status based on readiness and/or priority, as determined by the CLSRB.
Combatant Command (COCOM)—Nontransferable command authority exercised only by
commanders of unified and specified commands. Combatant Command is the authority of a
Combatant Commander to perform those functions of command over assigned forces involving
organizing and employing commands and forces, assigning tasks, designating objectives, and
giving authoritative direction over all aspects of military operations, joint training and logistics
necessary to accomplish the missions assigned to the command.
Comments—In LISN, a brief, but descriptive narrative of events impacting or that could impact
milestone and/or launch date. Comments should not be repeated, but enhanced to give a running
history of events. They should describe an event or update a previous event with what occurred,
reason for change, extenuating circumstances, etc.
Commercial Mission—Launch activity conducted under the authority of an FAA license IAW
Title 9 USC 50910.
Current Launch Schedule (CLS)—The CLS is a fiscal-year-based, 48-month projection of
launches from the ER and WR, approved by the 14 AF/CC at the CLSRB. It includes the
Executable Launch Schedule. The first two years of the CLS are provided via standard report
from LISN. The latter two years are used for operational planning purposes.
Current Launch Schedule Review Board (CLSRB)—A semi-annual forum chaired by 14
AF/CC and attended by senior officers, program managers and commercial representatives from
the launch community. The purpose of the CLSRB is to review resource, satellite and launch
assessments, prioritize launches and approve the CLS.
Designed Operational Capability (DOC)—A system that has completed Force Development
Evaluation (FDE) and has been accepted by the specified operational command/agency. The
system has completed all developmental tests, has demonstrated performance within
specification and is providing the intended service to the user as defined in the system
Operational Requirements Document and System Specification.
Executable Launch Schedule—A subset of the CLS, this schedule consists of range approved
dates. It does not conflict with any; 1) scheduled Range maintenance periods, 2) range
modernization contract activity periods, 3) launch system pad maintenance periods, 4) scheduled
Range test, or 5) scheduled launches from other pads or scheduled launches from the same pad
within prescribed time centers.
General Mission Details—In LISN, this information includes the payload/mission name, launch
vehicle, operations number, launch range and pad, POC, mission owner, status, NET/NLT dates
and launch window.
Government Expendable Launch Vehicle (ELV) Executive Board—An SMC/LR, NRO/OSL
and NASA/LSP jointly-chaired board whereby members coordinate respective EELV launch
requirements, priorities, programmatic issues affecting available launch opportunities and
 28                                                   AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


perspective on potential firing orders to inform development of possible integrated courses of
action to be assessed at the Government Integrated Meeting and the CLSRB.
Government Mission—A launch that does not require an FAA license under Title 9 USC
50101, i.e. a launch or other activity the Government carries out for the Government. This may
include activities for which the Government contracts with a commercial entity.
Indefinite Launch Date—A launch that was once approved on the wing launch schedule and is
no longer executable or a planning date that is no longer achievable. However, a new planning
date has not been established due to the need for additional information.
Launch Assessment—An evaluation of all launch constraints including launch throughput,
launch vehicle readiness including ILC, launch pad availability, ground equipment availability,
understanding all liens, plus resolution date and any applicable funding constraints. Launch
assessment results are presented to the CLSRB.
Launch Change Request—A formal request in LISN to change a launch date on the CLS.
Launch Commit Review—An independent process (independent from program offices), which
provides an enterprise-wide assessment used to inform launch slot allocation decisions for the
CLSRB. The LCR will assess risk in four areas: LV readiness, SV readiness, ground/control
system readiness and operations readiness.
Launch Requirement—The date (best fidelity possible) a mission must be launched to satisfy
operational/test capability, programmatics, functional availability (per AFSPCI 10-140) or
satellite assessment requirements.
Launch Service Provider (LSP)—A generic term for the prime contractors providing launch
services.
Launch Slot—A notional timeframe on the CLS representing a launch opportunity.
Launch Success—Initial separation/orbit injection is within proper limits (Spacelift) or achieves
the proper trajectory (non-spacelift)
Launch to Augment (LTA)—A strategy to increase operational capability above the designed
operational capability in response to war, crisis or contingency.
Launch to Deploy (LTD)—A strategy to achieve a satellite system’s initial designed operational
capability.
Launch to Reconstitute (LTR)—A strategy to respond to an unanticipated satellite failure
where a launch is necessary to recover an operational constellation and maintain designed
operational capability.
Launch to Sustain (LTS)—A strategy to maintain the designed operational capability of a
constellation by replacing satellites that are predicted to fail.
Launch Vehicle (LV) Initial Launch Capability (ILC)—The earliest date an LV can be ready
for launch, including nominal shipping and launch base processing time.
Milestones—Major events that must be accomplished prior to launch. Milestones may include,
but are not limited to, Booster on Stand, SV Mate, etc.
AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                               29


National Launch Forecast—The NLF is a fiscal-year-based forecast of launches from the ER
and WR.
National Mission Model—A projection of forecasted missions/spacecraft requiring launch
opportunities within a given fiscal year on the ER and WR. The NMM extends at least seven
years beyond the CLS
National Security Space Mission—An orbital mission contributing to national security that can
include AFSPC, MDA, Navy, NOAA and NRO spacelift missions. It does not include
suborbital, NASA, Research and Development or commercial missions.
Pending Launch Date—A launch date that is going through an approval process.
Planning Launch Date—The best available date that a mission can be launched. This launch
date must consider resource availability and CLSRB-approved mission prioritization but does
not require approval by an approval authority (i.e. Wing Commander).
Preemption—Preemption from access to a United States Government launch site, reentry site or
launch property when a launch date commitment from the Government has been obtained for a
launch under 51 USC 50910 et seq.
Primary Mission—The mission most likely to launch in a specified launch slot/opportunity, as
designated by the CLSRB.
Resource Assessment—An evaluation of range and resource status, including range down time
and any applicable funding considerations. Limiting factors are reported on range, maintenance
periods, down time, personnel, funding, satellite processing facilities, etc. Resource assessment
results are presented to the GIM/CLSRB.
Satellite Assessment—Agencies with upcoming launch requirements convene prior to the
CLSRB to review SV requirement, SV ILC date and associated confidence level, satellite
location, ground equipment/station availability and any applicable funding considerations.
Satellite assessment results are presented to the DoD Priorities meeting/GIM/CLSRB.
Significant Event—Reportable mission-related activities/incidents that have or could have a
scheduling impact. The LISN is not used in lieu of normal staff actions that are the subject of
separate correspondence. Units should submit all required reports IAW AFI 10-206,
Operational Reporting, AFI 10-206_AFSPCSUP_I, Operational Reporting, and/or AFI 10-201,
Status of Resources and Training System.
Significant Scheduling Action—Significant scheduling actions must be coordinated with 14 AF
prior to approving the change. A significant scheduling action is defined as a scheduling change
affecting a mission that does any of the following; 1) Adds a launch date not previously
presented at the CLSRB; 2) Adds a maintenance period that precludes operations for 72 hours or
more not previously presented at the CLSRB; 3) Moves a launch date more than 3 days earlier
or 10 days later from the approved launch date; 4) Changes the sequence of launches in the
CLS; 5) Causes another mission to slip more than 30-days from last published CLS; 6) Reduces
an SV ILC confidence level; or 7) Changes an SV ILC date by more than 30 days for missions
assigned either backup or primary positions on the CLS.
Space Vehicle (SV) Initial Launch Capability (ILC)—The earliest date an SV can be ready for
launch, including nominal shipping and launch base processing time.
 30                                                  AFSPCI13-1213 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


Space Vehicle (SV) Requirement—Also “Launch Requirement” The date (best fidelity
possible) a mission must be launched to satisfy operational/test capability, programmatics,
functional availability (per AFSPCI 10-140) or satellite assessment requirements.
Spacelift—The ability to deliver satellites, payloads and material into space. Spacelift
operations are conducted to deploy, sustain, augment or reconstitute satellite constellations
supporting US military operations and/or national security objectives. Spacelift operations
include operationally responsive launch capabilities (JP 3-14).
Target Launch Date—A scheduled launch date representing, in the case of the CLS, a
resolution among operational need, programmatic availability, and contractual constraints, or in
the case of the NMM, the best estimate of when an SV will launch primarily based on
operational need/constellation sustainment. SV ILC may precede TLD by many months or
possibly years depending upon priorities and launch manifest decisions.
