                           DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                               HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND




                                                                       AFSPCGM2014-10-02

                                                                                 26 April 2013

                                                                                  2 April 2014
MEMORANDUM FOR SEE DISTRIBUTION

FROM: HQ AFSPC/A3
      150 Vandenberg St Ste 1105
      Peterson AFB CO 80914-4170

SUBJECT: AFSPC Guidance Memorandum (GM) 10-2, Cybercrew Standardization and
        Evaluation Program

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

  By Order of the Commander of Air Force Space Command, this is a GM immediately
implementing cybercrew standardization and evaluation policy. Compliance with this
Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its direction is inconsistent with other Air Force or
AFSPC/NAF publications, the information herein prevails, IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and
Forms Management.

   In advance of publication of AFI 10-1703, Volume 2, Cybercrew Standardization and
Evaluation Program, the attachment to this memorandum provides AFSPC guidance that is
effective immediately. Changes to this GM are identified by an * before the paragraph number.

   Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this Memorandum are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.




                              GUARDIANS OF THE HIGH FRONTIER
   The guidance in this Memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of
this memorandum, or upon release of an Air Force publication incorporating the guidance,
whichever is earlier.




                                                DAVID J. BUCK
                                                Brigadier General, USAF
                                                Director of Air, Space and
                                                 Cyberspace Operations


DISTRIBUTION:
HQ AFSPC/IGIOS
24 AF/A3/OV
AFRC/A6
NGB/A3
688 IOW/CC
67 NWW/CC
689 CCW/CC
                                         Attachment 1

                AFSPC Cybercrew Standardization and Evaluation Program


A1.1. General. The purpose of the cybercrew Stan/Eval program is to provide commanders a
tool to validate mission readiness and the effectiveness of unit cyber operations, including
documentation of individual cybercrew member qualifications and capabilities.

A1.1.1. Cybercrews consist of individuals who conduct cyberspace operations and are assigned
to a specific weapon system.

A1.1.1.2. This GM applies to cybercrew positions that are designated Mission Ready (MR)/
Combat Mission Ready (CMR) in accordance with Attachment 5 in this memo.

A1.1.1.2.1. Individuals not assigned to a MR/CMR crew position IAW Attachment 5 of this
GM follow the Quality Assurance policy in AFI 33-150, Management of Cyberspace Support
Activities, Technical Order (TO) 00-33A-1001, General Communications Activities Management
Procedures and Practice Requirements and AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, as
required. Examples include, but are not limited to, Information Assurance professionals,
network administrators, helpdesk personnel, and Communication Focal Point (CFP) technicians.

A1.1.1.3. The GM applies to personnel in Basic Mission Capable (BMC) status whose minimum
requirement is to complete Initial Qualification Training (IQT) and Mission Qualification
Training (MQT).

A1.1.1.4. Contractors. U.S. contractor personnel who perform cyberspace operations duties and
are designated as MR/CMR are bound by the requirements of this instruction when current
contracting language allows. All future contracts (including modifications to existing multi-year
contracts) for cyberspace operations tasks subsequent to this instruction must state contractor
personnel are bound by the requirements of this instruction. Contractors and their processes are
subject to inspection visits.

A1.1.1.5. Prior to filling a designated CMR position with a non-military member, the specific
duties to be performed will be reviewed by 24 AF/JA to ensure compliance with existing policy
and the Law of Armed Conflict.

A1.1.1.6. 624th Operations Center (OC). Personnel filling MR/CMR positions at the 624 OC,
IAW Attachment 5 of this memo, will adhere to guidance in paragraphs A1.1 through A1.1.3.5,
A1.9 and Attachment 5 through Attachment 6.

A1.1.2. Objectives of Stan/Eval Program.

A1.1.2.1. Provide a system to assess and document individual proficiency and capability to
accomplish assigned cyber operations duties.
A1.1.2.2. Develop and ensure standardization of operational procedures for weapon system
employment.

A1.1.2.3. Ensure compliance with appropriate operational, training, and administrative
directives.

A1.1.2.4. Evaluate and revise operational directives, procedures, and techniques as required.

A1.1.2.5. Recognize trends in order to recommend/initiate changes to training programs and
directives.

A1.1.3. Waiver Authority, Changes, and Clarification.

A1.1.3.1. Unless otherwise specified, HQ AFSPC/A3T is the waiver authority for the provisions
of this instruction.

A1.1.3.2. Request waivers through applicable Wing/NAF training and Stan/Eval channels to HQ
AFSPC/A3T (or equivalent), as applicable.

A1.1.3.3. Waiver authority for supplemental guidance will be as specified in the supplement and
approved through higher level coordination authority.

A1.1.3.3.1. AF Reserve units. AFRC units will process waivers through their appropriate
reserve group commander. The appropriate reserve group commander will submit waiver
requests through 10 AF/A3 to HQ AFRC/A3T with courtesy copies forwarded to 24 AF/OV for
additional recommendation. HQ AFRC/A3T will forward the waiver request to HQ
AFSPC/A3T for review and recommendation. Upon receipt of the HQ AFSPC/A3T input, HQ
AFRC/A3T will approve/disapprove the waiver and provide a copy to HQ AFSPC/A3T.

A1.1.3.3.2. ANG units. ANG cyber units will process all IQT waiver requests through National
Guard Bureau/A3.

A1.1.3.4. Changes. Forward recommended changes to this GM via memorandum or AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through applicable Wing/NAF training and
Stan/Eval channels to HQ AFSPC/A3TT, 150 Vandenberg Street Ste 1105, Peterson AFB CO
80914-4240, or a3tt.wf@us.af.mil. Provide information copies to HQ AFSPC/IGIOS, and
24 AF/OV/A3T.

A1.1.3.5. Clarifications. Process requests for clarification via memorandum through applicable
Wing/NAF training and Stan/Eval channels to HQ AFSPC/A3TT describing in sufficient detail
the issue requiring clarification. 24 AF will provide a position prior to forwarding to
HQ AFSPC/A3T, 150 Vandenberg St., Ste 1105, Peterson AFB CO, 80914- 4240 or
a3t.wf@us.af.mil. Provide information copies to HQ AFSPC/IGIOS, 125 East Ent Ave,
Peterson AFB CO 80914-1281.
A1.2. Higher Headquarters (HHQ) Stan/Eval Functions and Organization

A1.2.1. Scope. HHQ includes Headquarters U.S. Air Force (HAF), MAJCOM, and NAF
Stan/Eval functions for the purposes of this instruction.

A1.2.2. Stan/Eval Visits (SEVs). HHQ Stan/Eval staffs may visit units during the
administration of formal inspections (e.g. Unit Compliance Inspections), Staff Assistance Visits
(SAVs), or in an informal capacity.

A1.2.3. MAJCOMs. Compliance is mandatory pursuant AFPD 10-17 which designated AFSPC
as the lead command and Core Function Lead Integrator (CFLI) for cyberspace operations. This
GM will be replaced by AFI 10-1703, Volume 2, upon publication.

A1.2.3.1. General.

A1.2.3.1.1. MAJCOM Stan/Eval staffs are primarily responsible for setting policy and
establishing administrative processes. Lower echelons of command are primarily responsible for
the cyber operations and evaluation functions.

A1.2.3.1.2. MAJCOM Stan/Eval staffs may operate a weapon system to maintain current and
qualified expertise.

A1.2.3.1.3. HAF, DRUs, and the ANG are considered MAJCOMs for the purpose of this
instruction.

A1.2.3.2. Functions.

A1.2.3.2.1. The lead MAJCOM for each weapon system will review applicable cybercrew
evaluation criteria.

A1.2.3.2.2. Provide policy and guidance no less restrictive than guidance contained in this GM
and applicable supplements.

A1.2.3.2.3. Convene conferences and working groups, as necessary, to review and improve
command Stan/Eval policies and procedures.

A1.2.3.2.4. Provide staff coordination and control of all Cybercrew Information File (CIF) items
issued from the MAJCOM level to units (see A1.9).

A1.2.3.2.5. Establish guidance for MAJCOM-mandated Stan/Eval software, if required.

A1.2.3.2.6. Coordinate on evaluation criteria and guidance in conjunction with the lead
MAJCOM and other user MAJCOMs operating like weapon systems.

A1.2.3.2.7. Observe and/or augment subordinate NAF Stan/Eval visits when feasible.
A1.2.3.2.8. Observe execution of unit missions and provide feedback when feasible.

A1.2.3.2.9. Provide qualified cyber examiners to augment other MAJCOM and NAF agencies
when requested (see paragraph A1.2.4.4.).

A1.2.3.2.10. Review subordinate unit Stan/Eval Board (SEB) minutes and, at a minimum,
address any action items requiring HHQ assistance.

A1.2.3.2.11. In the absence of a NAF Stan/Eval function, assume responsibilities listed in
paragraph A1.2.4.

A1.2.3.3. Organization.

A1.2.3.3.1. MAJCOM Commanders will designate the MAJCOM/A3 (or equivalent)
responsible for the MAJCOM Stan/Eval program.

A1.2.3.3.2. MAJCOM Stan/Eval staff will contain one cybercrew examiner per cybercrew
position per weapon system, if applicable to the MAJCOM, or as directed by MAJCOM/A3.

A1.2.3.3.3. Augmentation. Each MAJCOM may use augmentees from other MAJCOMs to
support or conduct cross-command Stan/Eval program reviews, inspections, and evaluations with
concurrence of all the MAJCOM Stan/Eval organizations involved. Augmentees will use the
criteria of the MAJCOM they are augmenting.

A1.2.4. NAFs.

A1.2.4.1. General. NAF Stan/Eval will maintain a tactical focus and perform the operational
role in evaluating unit Stan/Eval functions within its chain of command. MAJCOM Stan/Eval
assumes these responsibilities when no NAF Stan/Eval exists.

A1.2.4.2. Functions.

A1.2.4.2.1. Maintain responsibility of Stan/Eval functions in lower echelon units.

A1.2.4.2.2. Conduct Stan/Eval visits IAW MAJCOM supplements/directives.

A1.2.4.2.3. Provide staff coordination and control of all CIF items issued from the NAF level to
units (see A1.9).

A1.2.4.2.4. Provide qualified cyber examiners, as available, to augment other MAJCOM and
NAF agencies when requested (see paragraph A1.2.4.4).

A1.2.4.2.5. Administer objectivity evaluations, when practical, to chiefs of Stan/Eval or senior
Stan/Eval crews in lower echelon units.

A1.2.4.2.6. Observe execution of unit missions and provide feedback when feasible.
A1.2.4.2.7. Review subordinate unit SEB minutes and, at a minimum, address any action items
requiring HHQ assistance.

A1.2.4.2.8. Submit a consolidated semi-annual roster to HQ AFSPC/A3TT (due 45 days after
the end of the 1st and 3rd quarters) reflecting current qualification status of those individuals
occupying designated MR/CMR positions. An example is provided at Attachment 7; however,
units may use any format as long as the information from Attachment 7 is captured in the report.

A1.2.4.2.9. Validate and Approve Evaluation Criteria. Provide guidance on the implementation
and use of Evaluation Criteria.

A1.2.4.3. Organization.

A1.2.4.3.1. NAF commanders will designate in writing the office responsible for the NAF
Stan/Eval program.

A1.2.4.3.2. NAF Stan/Eval staff will contain one cybercrew examiner per cybercrew position
per weapon system, if applicable to the NAF, or as directed by NAF office responsible for the
Stan/Eval program.

A1.2.4.4. Augmentation. Each NAF may use qualified augmentees to support or conduct
reviews, evaluations, and inspections with concurrence of all the NAF Stan/Eval organizations
involved.

A1.3. Unit Stan/Eval Functions and Organization

A1.3.1. Scope. For purpose of this instruction, "unit" includes levels of organization under
HHQ required to establish a Stan/Eval function. Most units are composed of an Operations
Group (OG) and cyber squadrons/detachments (henceforth in this GM, "squadron" will be used
synonymously with "detachment"). Where there is no parent OG, squadrons will assume duties
listed for OGs.

A1.3.2. Operations Group Commander. When circumstances require, the Squadron/
Detachment Commander may assume responsibility for this function. This requires a written
waiver. The OG/CC:

A1.3.2.1. Directs the conduct of the unit level Stan/Eval program.

A1.3.2.2. Provides manpower to the unit Stan/Eval function to execute the duties directed by
this GM.

A1.3.2.3. Designates OG Stan/Eval (OGV) Stan/Eval Examiners (SEE) (see section A1.4.2).

A1.3.2.4. Designates additional cybercrew examiners who are not assigned to OGV, when
necessary, to meet unique unit requirements. Document in the SEB minutes (see Attachment
4).
A1.3.2.5. (Deleted).

A1.3.2.6. Provides a Stan/Eval testing area.

A1.3.2.7. Chairs the SEB.

A1.3.2.8. Establishes procedures to implement MAJCOM-mandated Stan/Eval software if
required.

A1.3.3. Stan/Eval Organization. The Stan/Eval function will normally be administered from the
group level with the Chief of Stan/Eval reporting directly to the OG/CC. However, when
circumstances prohibit, or if directed by the OG/CC, the Squadron/Detachment may assume
responsibility for this function.

A1.3.3.1. Stan/Eval consists of a Chief of Stan/Eval and at least one examiner per crew position
per weapon system, if applicable to the unit, or as directed by OG/CC or SQ/DET/CC when no
OGV exists.

A1.3.3.1.1. The OG/CC may determine if a specific examiner is not required based on unit
requirements or personnel constraints and will document this decision in writing.

A1.3.3.1.2. The Chief of Stan/Eval will be a certified examiner in a weapon system position (as
identified in Attachment 5) and report directly to and be rated by the OG/CC (or Sq/Det/CC
when no OGV exists).

A1.3.3.2. Processes AFSPC Form 4418, Certificate of Cybercrew Qualification and AFSPC
Form 4420, Individual’s Record of Duties and Qualifications.

A1.3.3.3. Establishes, monitors, and maintains the unit Individual Qualification Folder (IQF)
program IAW A1.8.

A1.3.3.4. Establishes procedures for review and quality control of evaluation documentation.

A1.3.3.5. Establishes and maintains a trend analysis program IAW A1.9.

A1.3.3.6. Conducts SEBs IAW A1.9 and ensures SEB minutes are distributed within 30 days.

A1.3.3.7. Establishes unit no-notice program and goals. Monitors this program to ensure goals
set by the OG/CC or SQ/CC/DO are met and unit no-notice evaluations are distributed
proportionately among positions and types of evaluations.

A1.3.3.8. Designs and publishes evaluation criteria in addition to that identified within this GM
and supplements to this instruction, as necessary, to capture local requirements.
A1.3.3.9. Develops and documents the SEE training program, designed to instruct and certify
SEEs on the proper manner in which to correctly assess crew proficiency as part of their role in
the Instructional Systems Development (ISD) process.

A1.3.3.10. Monitors the upgrade and objectivity of all SEEs.

A1.3.3.11. At least semi-annually, advises unit leadership on unit cybercrew qualification status,
requisite completion, and upcoming expiration dates. In addition, advises unit leadership on unit
trends as well as combined trends across all units under Stan/Eval office’s responsibility.

A1.3.3.12. Submit a consolidated semi-annual roster to NAF Stan/Eval program office (due 30
days after the end of the first and third quarters) reflecting current qualification status of those
individuals occupying designated MR/CMR positions. An example is provided at Attachment
7; however, units may use any format as long as the information from Attachment 7 is captured
in the report.

A1.3.4. Squadron Commander.

A1.3.4.1. Determines squadron personnel required to be present during evaluation debriefs of
squadron personnel.

A1.3.4.2. Assists the Stan/Eval office in accomplishing the Trend Analysis Program.

A1.3.4.3. Ensures proper completion, routing, and filing of Stan/Eval documentation, as
appropriate.

A1.3.4.4. Implement the group folder maintenance and review program. This includes maintaining
IQFs, when applicable.

A1.4. Cybercrew Examiners

A1.4.1. General. The evaluation portion of the Cybercrew Stan/Eval Program is administered
by SEEs at both the HHQ and unit levels. An examiner who is multi-qualified may be used to
evaluate more than one position.

A1.4.2. SEEs:

A1.4.2.1. Will complete appropriate training program before certification. Evaluator trainees
will be observed and supervised by a certified SEE. At a minimum the training will consist of:

A1.4.2.1.1. Applicable equipment configuration and scheduling procedures (e.g., simulator and
on-line equipment configuration, test, and evaluation scenario control procedures).

A1.4.2.1.2. ISD process and procedures.

A1.4.2.1.3. Construction, conduct, and administration of the written phase of an evaluation.
A1.4.2.1.4. Construction, conduct, and administration of the performance phase of an
evaluation.

A1.4.2.1.5. Observance, at a minimum, of one certified SEE conducting an evaluation.

A1.4.2.1.6. Pass an objectivity evaluation administered by the Chief of Stand/Eval or
designated representative. See Attachment 2 as a guide for evaluations.

A1.4.2.2. Conduct cybercrew evaluations IAW this GM.

A1.4.2.3. Maintain MR/CMR status in each position that they will evaluate.

A1.4.2.3.1. NAF examiners are only required to maintain BMC status.

A1.4.2.4. Cybercrew examiners administer evaluations only in those positions in which they
maintain qualification and certification. Waiver authority for weapon system cybercrew
examiners to evaluate positions in which they are not certified is the OG/CC. Exception: SPOT
evaluations and where specifically authorized in this GM.

A1.4.2.5. Will not administer evaluations outside of their MAJCOM unless specifically
requested by the MAJCOM Stan/Eval organization of the examinee and approved by the
MAJCOM Stan/Eval organization of the examiner. MAJCOMs may establish procedures in
their supplement for weapon system cybercrew examiners to administer evaluations outside of
NAFs/units within their own MAJCOM (see also paragraph A1.2.4.4.).

A1.4.2.6. Conduct a thorough pre-mission briefing and post-mission debriefing for the examinee
and applicable crew members on all aspects of the evaluation.

A1.4.2.7. Debrief the examinee’s commander or operations officer on the results of the
evaluation. As soon as possible, notify the examinee’s squadron commander (or available
supervision if the squadron commander cannot be reached) whenever Qualification Level 2 or 3
(Q2 or Q3) performance is observed (see paragraph A1.5.4.).

A1.5. Cybercrew Qualification Evaluations

A1.5.1. General. The Cybercrew Stan/Eval Program utilizes cybercrew evaluations to ensure
qualification of cybercrew members and standardization of operations.

A1.5.1.1. To promote efficient use of cyber operations resources, accomplish cybercrew
qualification evaluations concurrently, whenever practical.

A1.5.1.2. Evaluation programs, practices and operations procedures will be standardized with
training programs as much as practical, to include standard stimuli. A stimuli list to document
entering arguments for each performance task/subtask may be developed and used, as needed.

A1.5.2. Categories. Cybercrew qualification evaluations are divided into three categories
(Qualification (QUAL), Mission (MSN), and SPOT) each consisting of two structured phases,
written and performance. Exception: SPOT evaluations may only consist of one phase
depending on its purpose.

A1.5.2.1. QUAL Evaluations.

A1.5.2.1.1. Purpose. Ensure basic qualification in a weapon system and/or crew position.

A1.5.2.1.2. Execution. All cybercrews will complete a periodic QUAL evaluation in their
primary assigned weapon system crew position. QUAL evaluations may be combined with
MSN evaluations.

A1.5.2.2. MSN Evaluations.

A1.5.2.2.1. Purpose. To ensure qualification to employ the weapon system at the assigned crew
position in the accomplishment of the unit’s operational or Designated Operational Capability
(DOC) statement’s mission(s).

A1.5.2.2.2. MSN evaluations should reflect the type and difficulty of tasks required in
fulfillment of the weapon system operational or DOC statement missions.

A1.5.2.2.3. Execution. Cybercrew members maintaining MR/CMR status (IAW Attachment 5
of this GM) will complete a periodic MSN evaluation as determined by unit needs.

A1.5.2.2.4. Exception. If units decide to use/require MSN evaluations, the requirement for a
MSN evaluation may be waived for those crew positions where performance of normal
operational, test, and training events involves tasks covered during the accomplishment of a
QUAL evaluation. For AFSPC units, MSN evaluations are not used.

A1.5.2.3. SPOT Evaluations.

A1.5.2.3.1. Purpose. Evaluate a specific event or requirement without intending to satisfy the
requirements of a periodic evaluation and/or initial evaluation.

A1.5.2.3.2. Execution. A SPOT has no specific requisites, unless specified in MAJCOM
supplements, but may be No Notice (N/N).

A1.5.2.3.2.1. An examinee may utilize a SPOT evaluation to update a QUAL/MSN evaluation
expiration date provided all requirements for the QUAL/MSN are met.

A1.5.2.3.2.2. Any qualifying event and/or evaluation not listed in paragraphs A1.5.2.1 through
A1.5.2.2.4. will be documented as a SPOT evaluation.

A1.5.2.4. Prefixes. The following prefixes will be used, when applicable, to further describe the
evaluations listed in paragraphs A1.5.2.1 through A1.5.2.2.4.:
A1.5.2.4.1. Initial (INIT). The first evaluation of any type in a specific weapon system crew
position (e.g., INIT QUAL, INIT MSN).

A1.5.2.4.2. Requalification (RQ). An evaluation administered to remedy a loss of qualification
due to:

A1.5.2.4.2.1. Expiration of a required periodic evaluation. The recheck will be IAW the
guidance for that periodic evaluation.

A1.5.2.4.2.2. Loss of currency that requires a requal evaluation. In this case RQ SPOT will be
used for documentation. The recheck criteria will be as directed by the OG(SQ)/CC and will
include, as a minimum, those items for which the individual is non-current.

A1.5.2.4.2.3. A recheck following a failed periodic evaluation. The recheck will be IAW the
provisions of section A1.5.8.

A1.5.2.4.2.4. Loss of qualification due to a commander-directed downgrade (see paragraph
A1.5.10). The recheck criteria will be as directed by the commander.

A1.5.2.4.2.5. The RQ prefix will not be used to prefix a recheck following a failed INIT
evaluation. No qualification was achieved, thus requalification is not possible.

A1.5.2.4.3. No-Notice (N/N).

A1.5.2.4.3.1. The N/N evaluation program provides commanders a sampling of daily cybercrew
performance and an assessment of unit training effectiveness.

A1.5.2.4.3.2. A N/N evaluation is one where the examinee is notified of the evaluation at or
after the beginning of normal preparation for the mission.

A1.5.2.4.4. Simulator (SIM). An evaluation where the performance phase requisite is conducted
in a simulator.

A1.5.2.4.5. Multiple Prefixes. More than one prefix may be used to describe an evaluation (e.g.,
N/N SIM SPOT). The applicability of any prefixes to portions of any combined evaluations and
the purpose for any prefixes (if not obvious by the context of the evaluation) will be explained on
the AFSPC Form 4418 IAW A1.8.

A1.5.3. Phases. QUAL and MSN evaluations consist of two structured phases, written and
performance. SPOT evaluations may consist of one or both phases depending on its purpose.
See paragraph A1.6.1 and A1.7.1 for descriptions of the evaluation phases.

A1.5.4. Qualification Levels. Qualification levels are grades assigned both to individual phases
as well as the overall evaluation. Individual phases are graded IAW A1.6 and A1.7. An overall
evaluation is graded as a compilation of all requisite tasks associated with the required phases.
Qualification levels are:
A1.5.4.1. Qualification Level 1 (Q1). The member demonstrated desired performance and
knowledge of procedures, equipment and directives within tolerances specified in the grading
criteria. This will be awarded when no discrepancies were noted, and may be awarded when
discrepancies are noted, if all conditions below are met:

A1.5.4.1.1. The discrepancies resulted in no unsatisfactory (U) grades being given in any
area(s)/subarea(s).

A1.5.4.1.2. All discrepancies noted during the evaluation were resolved during the debrief of
that evaluation.

A1.5.4.2. Qualification Level 2 (Q2). The member demonstrated the ability to perform duties
safely, but:

A1.5.4.2.1. There were one or more area(s)/subarea(s) where additional training was assigned
and/or

A1.5.4.2.2. A non-critical area/subarea grade of U was awarded

A1.5.4.3. Qualification Level 3 (Q3). The member demonstrated an unacceptable level of
safety, performance or knowledge. The member is not qualified to perform crew duties.

A1.5.4.3.1. An area grade of U awarded in a critical area requires an overall Q3 for the
evaluation.

A1.5.4.3.2. An overall Q3 can be awarded if, in the judgment of the examiner, there is
justification based on performance in one or several areas/subareas.

A1.5.4.4. Exceptionally Qualified (EQ) Designation. An exceptionally qualified designation
may be awarded by the examiner. The designation can only be applied to the total evaluation-
not separate parts. The EQ designation may be awarded by the examiner when:

A1.5.4.4.1. The operator has demonstrated exceptional skill and knowledge in all portions of the
evaluation.

A1.5.4.4.2. The operator has not failed any part of the evaluation.

A1.5.4.4.3. The operator received a Q1 grade with no downgrades (remedial action required) on
all tasks/subtasks.

A1.5.5. Evaluation Criteria. Evaluation criteria defines the performance standards expected of
cybercrews in their accomplishment of the mission. These standards are the measurement
against which crewmembers are evaluated to achieve and maintain their qualifications.
A1.5.5.1. NAF policy and guidance will include MSN and/or QUAL evaluation criteria for all
crew position qualifications (e.g., Crew Commander, Cyber Operator, etc.) appropriate to that
weapon system.

A1.5.5.2. Evaluation criteria will contain areas/subareas required for evaluation completion.
Attachment 3 gives examples of evaluation criteria.

A1.5.5.2.1. Areas/subareas will be arranged into general and specific evaluation sections.

A1.5.5.2.2. Each area/subarea will contain associated performance standards, conditions,
proficiency codes, and applicable timing requirements.

A1.5.5.2.3. Critical areas/subareas will be identified. These are those areas/subareas that, upon
failure, would most adversely affect the qualification of a cybercrew member. They include, but
are not limited to, safety and weapon system discipline.

A1.5.5.3. All critical and mission-essential tasks and subtasks (IAW NAF-approved Evaluation
Criteria) will be evaluated across the crew force every 18 months. This will not be interpreted to
mean that every crew member will receive every task and subtask, but tasks/subtasks will be
presented and assessed across the entire crew force.

A1.5.6. Requisites. Requisites are defined as the combination of written examinations,
performance examinations, and other requirements as directed by this GM before an evaluation
is considered complete.

A1.5.6.1. Conduct a written exam (open or closed book) for each MR/CMR crew position.

A1.5.6.2. Conduct a performance evaluation for each MR/CMR crew position.

A1.5.6.3. Units that direct additional requisites beyond those specified in this GM, must
document them within their applicable supplement.

A1.5.6.4. For multiple qualifications, the evaluation of one requisite may count for separate
evaluations provided the evaluations occur IAW this GM.

A1.5.7. Timing of Qualification Evaluations.

A1.5.7.1. Expiration Date. Required periodic evaluations will not exceed the last day of 17th
month in which the evaluation was successfully completed (e.g., evaluation was completed 15
January 2014 then next evaluation is due NLT 30 June 2015).

A1.5.7.2. Scheduling. Schedule periodic evaluations in the eligibility period (six-month period
prior to expiration date).

A1.5.7.3. Requirements before Permanent Change of Station (PCS) /Temporary Duty (TDY). If
a periodic evaluation will expire within three months after the proposed departure for a PCS to
an assignment in the same mission type, or during an upcoming TDY, complete the required
evaluation(s) before departing for either the PCS assignment or the TDY.

A1.5.7.4. Requisite completion.

A1.5.7.4.1. In-the-eligibility period. For scheduled or N/N periodic evaluations in the eligibility
period, all requisites must be completed within the six-month eligibility period prior to the
expiration date of the current evaluation period to update that expiration date.

A1.5.7.4.2. Out-of-the-eligibility period. For periodic evaluations outside the eligibility period, all
requisites must be completed within a six-month period encompassing the month in which the
positional evaluation was administered. Exception: For extended evaluations, requisites may be
completed between the beginning of the six-month eligibility period prior to the original expiration
date and the extended expiration date.

A1.5.7.4.3. Requalification (for evaluations used to remedy a failed evaluation).

A1.5.7.4.3.1. Requisites that were valid for a failed evaluation remain valid, IAW paragraph
A1.5.6.

A1.5.7.4.3.2. Expiration of a required periodic evaluation. The recheck will be IAW the
guidance for that periodic evaluation.

A1.5.7.4.3.3. Loss of currency that requires a requal evaluation. In this case RQ SPOT will be
used for documentation. The recheck criteria will be as directed by the SQ/CC and will include,
as a minimum, those items for which the individual is non-current.

A1.5.7.4.3.4. A performance recheck following a failed periodic evaluation. The recheck will
be IAW the provisions of paragraph A1.5.6.

A1.5.7.4.3.5. Loss of qualification due to a commander-directed downgrade (see paragraph
A1.5.10.). The recheck criteria will be as directed by the commander on the AFSPC Form 4418.

A1.5.7.4.3.6. The RQ prefix will not be used under the following circumstances:

A1.5.7.4.3.6.1. If the expiration of a required periodic evaluation is due to failure to complete
one or more of the written phase requisites, but the performance evaluation has successfully been
completed within the eligibility period and the OG/CC determines that qualification will be re-
established by completion of the written requisites without re-accomplishment of the
performance evaluation.

A1.5.7.4.3.6.2. To prefix a recheck following a failed INIT evaluation. No qualification was
achieved, thus requalification is not possible.

A1.5.8. Failure to Pass a Positional Evaluation.
*A1.5.8.1. Requalification. If a member fails a positional evaluation, a successful requalification
must be completed within 30 days after the date of the first failure (e.g., for an evaluation on 20
June 2010, complete the recheck by 19 July 2010). For ARC units, a requalification evaluation
must begin within three Unit Training Assembly (UTA) periods.

A1.5.8.2. Restrictions. When called for by this instruction or deemed necessary in the judgment
of the SEE, the SEE may recommend restrictions be imposed on the examinee until successful
completion of assigned additional training and/or a recheck. The certifying official, or
designated representative, will make the final determination.

A1.5.8.2.1. Restrictions should address the specific phase of operation and/or position that
requires supervision and the criteria for removal of the restrictions.

A1.5.8.2.2. QUAL Evaluation. Place the examinee on restricted status on the system in which
the evaluation was administered, unless, in the opinion of the evaluator, the discrepancy is
applicable to additional systems. For specialized and/or multiple qualified cybercrew
maintaining qualification for similar duty in multiple cyber systems, restricted status may be
directed on all systems in which the individual maintains qualification.

A1.5.8.2.3. MSN Evaluation. Place the examinee on restricted status on the system in which the
evaluation was administered, unless, in the opinion of the evaluator, the discrepancy is applicable
to additional systems.

A1.5.8.3. Status Downgrade. Cybercrew members receiving a Q3 QUAL and/or MSN
evaluation are non-mission ready (N-MR)/non-combat mission ready (N-CMR). Place crew
members receiving a failing score on an evaluation on restricted status.

A1.5.8.4. Restricted Status.

A1.5.8.4.1. If unsatisfactory performance or restrictions require an examinee be placed on
restricted status, the type of supervisor (i.e., instructor or designated supervisor) will be
determined by the SQ/CC or Detachment Commander as applicable.

A1.5.8.4.2. Supervision will only be accomplished by instructors or designated supervisors that
are certified.

A1.5.9. Failure to Complete an Evaluation within the Required Period.

A1.5.9.1. If a member fails to complete an evaluation (either written or positional phase) within
the eligibility period for an in-the-eligibility period evaluation or within the period listed in
paragraph A1.5.7.4.1. for an out-of-the-eligibility period evaluation, the member loses the
qualification covered by the evaluation and the restrictions of paragraph A1.5.7.4.2. apply.

A1.5.9.2. Qualification may be re-established by administering a requalification evaluation or by
completion of the delinquent evaluation. OG/CC or designee may approve waivers to preclude
the re-accomplishment of completed requisites to complete the evaluation on a case-by-case
basis.

A1.5.10. Commander-Directed Downgrade. A certifying official may direct a downgrade (Q-
/U) in a specific area/sub-area or a downgrade that either removes a qualification (e.g.,
Cyberspace Crew Commander to Cyberspace Operator) or completely unqualifies an individual.
Commander-directed-downgrades will be documented IAW A1.8.

A1.5.11. Multiple Qualifications. Multiple qualification guidance applies to members who
maintain qualification in two or more mission positions.

A1.5.11.1. QUAL Evaluations. All members require a QUAL evaluation in each position.

A1.5.11.2. Failure to pass an evaluation. A downgrade resulting from a failure of a QUAL
applies only to that specific position for which the evaluation was administered, unless, in the
opinion of the SEE, the discrepancy is applicable to additional positions.

A1.6. Cybercrew Performance Evaluations Program

A1.6.1. Purpose. The performance program measures the skills and abilities of a crewmember
through observation of their performance within a specific crew position.

A1.6.2. General.

A1.6.2.1. Performance examination management. Unit Stan/Eval will develop and maintain
standard performance examinations for each position. Each performance test will include an
operationally realistic scenario guided by a script (as applicable) and based upon NAF-approved
evaluation criteria. The content and format of the scenario script is left for units to determine
using guidance found in AFH 36-2235 Volume 12, Information for Designers of Instructional
Systems Test and Measurement Handbook, standardizing to the extent practical. At a minimum,
each performance test should include inputs to measure crew coordination and prioritization.

A1.6.2.2. Performance examination reviews. Unit Stan/Eval will review all steps of the
performance evaluations for accuracy, feasibility, and correct process steps annually.

A1.6.3. Grading System.

A1.6.3.1. A two-step grading system is used to evaluate and document crewmember
performance.

A1.6.3.1.1. In the first step, individual grades are assigned against each area and subarea of the
evaluation criteria established for the appropriate crew position.

A1.6.3.1.2. In the second step, an overall qualification level is assigned based on a compilation
of all individual area/subarea grades.
A1.6.3.2. Performance Areas/Subareas.

A1.6.3.2.1. Areas/subareas will have a two-tier (Q/U) or three-tier (Q/Q-/U) grading system.
Discrepancies will be documented against the established areas/subareas.

A1.6.3.2.1.1. Q indicates the examinee demonstrated both a satisfactory knowledge of all
required information and performed cybercrew duties within the prescribed tolerances.

A1.6.3.2.1.2. Q- indicates the examinee is qualified to perform the assigned area/subarea tasks,
but requires debriefing or additional training as determined by the SEE. Deviations must not
exceed the prescribed Q- tolerances, jeopardize safety, or be a breach of weapon system
discipline.

A1.6.3.2.1.3. U indicates that performance was outside allowable parameters thereby
compromising safety; that deviations from prescribed procedures/tolerances adversely affected
mission accomplishment, and/or evaluated performance constituted a breach of weapon system
discipline.

A1.6.4. Conduct of a Performance Evaluation.

A1.6.4.1. The examiner will grade the areas/subareas listed as required within this GM and
appropriate supplements.

A1.6.4.2. In addition to required areas/subareas, the examiner will grade any area/subarea
observed during an evaluation that was incidental to the task(s) being performed where the
examiner observed less than acceptable performance which could impact operations or overall
safety.

A1.6.4.3. Minor momentary deviations are acceptable, provided the examinee applies prompt
corrective action and such deviations do not jeopardize safety. Consider cumulative deviations
when determining the overall area/subarea grade.

A1.6.4.4. The examiner may identify any area/sub-area as Commendable if, in the examiner’s
determination, the cybercrew member has demonstrated exceptional skill and knowledge.

A1.6.5. Remedial Action. An examinee receiving an area/subarea grade of Q- or U requires
debriefing and/or additional training, as determined by the SEE.

A1.6.5.1. Debriefed Discrepancy. Examiners will explain the discrepancy to ensure that the
examinee has gained the necessary knowledge or proficiency.

A1.6.5.2. Additional Training. Any training recommended by the examiner to remedy
deficiencies identified during an evaluation.

A1.6.5.2.1. May include self-study, use of a simulator, supervised operations on the “live
network” or operations in a range environment.
*A1.6.5.2.2. Will be complete by the last day of the first month following the date of the
discrepancy (e.g., for a discrepancy on 20 Jun 14, complete the remedial action by 31 Jul 14). For
ARC units, training will begin no later than the beginning of the following UTA and be
completed within two UTA periods of the failure.

A1.6.5.2.3. If a cybercrew member exceeds the allotted time for completion of additional
training, the SQ/CC will review the situation and direct appropriate action. Document the
circumstances with an MFR to be included with the AFSPC Form 4420.

A1.6.5.2.4. Document additional training on the AFSPC Form 4418.

A1.6.6. Restricted Status Requirement. Place personnel who fail performance examination in
restricted status until successful retesting is completed.

A1.6.7. Retest.

*A1.6.7.1. Unit Stan/Eval will administer an alternate performance examination within 30 days
following the date of the first failure. Unit Stan/Eval will make every reasonable effort to
accomplish re-testing prior to the end of the crewmember’s eligibility window. For ARC units,
testing must begin the third UTA period after the date of the failure.

*A1.6.7.2. The authority to extend the time allowed to successfully complete the performance
examination is the OG/CC. However, if the eligibility window falls within 30 days, every effort
must be made to re-examine prior to expiration. For ARC units, a retest must begin within three
UTA periods.

A1.7. Cybercrew Written Examination Program

A1.7.1. Purpose. The examination program measures knowledge, procedures, and other
information for effective operations through the administration of written, computer-based, or
electronic examinations. Poor testing performance on examinations indicates areas requiring
increased training emphasis.

A1.7.2. General.

A1.7.2.1. Examination Management. Unit Stan/Eval will develop and maintain standard
examinations for each position, or generate a unique test for each person requiring an exam. If
examinations are maintained for each position:

A1.7.2.1.1. Unit Stan/Eval will develop and control a minimum of two examinations for each
position unless the information being tested is the same for each position.

A1.7.2.1.2. Unit Stan/Eval will change a minimum of 25 percent of the questions on each
examination every calendar year.
A1.7.2.2. Examination Reviews. Unit Stan/Eval will review all MQFs, and prepared exams for
accuracy annually and after any changes in source documents. If a complete review was
accomplished due to a source document change, it may be annotated as the annual review.

A1.7.2.2.1. MQFs may be developed at unit level.

A1.7.2.3. Examination Security. Unit Stan/Eval will maintain positive control of all exams,
applicable answer sheets, and associated computer-based/electronic media.

A1.7.2.4. Examination Question Sources.

A1.7.2.4.1. Open Book Exams. Open book exams will be derived from technical orders,
manuals, handbooks, or instructions that may not require immediate recall or are not regularly
referenced. Questions will come from publications containing information pertinent to the
operation and performance of the assigned mission.

A1.7.2.4.2. Closed Book Exams. Closed book exam questions will come from MQFs. These
questions will emphasize system knowledge, time-sensitive information, and information
required to be immediately recalled for quick responses.

A1.7.2.5. End-of-Course Examinations. Formal Training Units (FTU) administering USAF
Formal School courses listed in the Air Force Education and Training Course Announcement
(ETCA) database (https://etca.randolph.af.mil ) may use end-of-course (EOC) examinations to
fulfill the requirements of the open book and/or closed book requisite examinations.

A1.7.2.5.1. The MAJCOM Stan/Eval responsible for the USAF formal training will coordinate
with AF/A3CP/A6CP to ensure the EOC examination meets the requirements of this instruction
and applicable instructional supplements before awarding credit for requisite completion.

A1.7.2.5.2. EOC examination test questions do not need to incorporate MAJCOM MQFs,
however, all questions must reflect the latest changes to all systems and/or operational
procedures and not conflict with any MQFs.

A1.7.2.5.3. All EOC examinations that fulfill the requirements of requisite examinations will be
graded according to this GM and entered on the Stan/Eval qualification documentation.

A1.7.3. Grading System. The total number of questions on a written exam should be determined
by the total number of evaluation criteria included in the evaluation, as a minimum include one
question per evaluation criteria. The minimum passing grade for all Stan/Eval examinations is
80 percent.

A1.7.4. Conduct of Written Examinations.

A1.7.4.1. For open book exams, examiners will make available to examinees all source
publications used to generate the exam.
A1.7.4.2. Unit Stan/Eval will leverage computer-based or electronic examinations when
feasible.

A1.7.4.3. Unit Stan/Eval will retain graded exam answer sheets/computer records until the
Stan/Eval qualification documentation is completed.

A1.7.5. Remedial Action. An examinee receiving a failing grade on a written examination
requires debriefing and additional training (as determined by the weapon system examiner) and a
retest.

A1.7.5.1. Debriefed Discrepancy. The examiner will provide instruction concerning the missed
test questions to ensure the examinee understands the areas/subareas that must be addressed.

A1.7.5.2. Additional Training. Any training recommended by the examiner to remedy
deficiencies identified during an evaluation.

A1.7.5.2.1. May include self-study, use of a simulator, supervised operations on the “live
network” or operations in a range environment.

*A1.7.5.2.2. Will be complete within 30 days following the date of the first failure. For ARC
units, training will begin no later than the beginning of the following UTA and be completed
within two UTA periods of the failure.

*A1.7.5.2.3. If a cybercrew member exceeds the allotted time for completion of additional
training, the certifying official will review the situation and direct appropriate action. Document
the circumstances on the AFSPC Form 4420 and/or MFR.

A1.7.5.2.4. Document additional training on the AFSPC Form 4418.

A1.7.6. Restricted Status Requirement. Place personnel who fail a requisite open book or closed
book examination in restricted status until successful retesting is completed. For personnel who
maintain multiple qualifications, restricted status resulting from failure of either an open or
closed book examination applies only to the position for which the examination was
administered.

A1.7.7. Retest.

A1.7.7.1. Unit Stan/Eval will administer an alternate exam within 30 days following the date of
the first failure. For ARC units, the unit stan/eval will administer an alternate examination by the
end of the following UTA weekend after the date of the first failure. Unit Stan/Eval will make
every reasonable effort to accomplish re-testing prior to the end of the crewmember’s eligibility
window.

*A1.7.7.2. The authority to extend the time allowed to successfully complete the examination is
the OG/CC. However, if the eligibility window falls within 30 days, every effort must be made
to re-examine prior to expiration. For ARC units, a retest must begin within three UTA periods.
A1.7.7.3. A person failing a written examination must be afforded an adequate study period
prior to re-examination.

A1.7.7.4. A person failing a written examination may not receive an overall qualification rating
greater than Q2 after passing the retest.

A1.8. Documentation

A1.8.1. Scope. Administration of the Qualification Evaluation program requires accurate
documentation. The qualifications and authorizations for which a person is to be evaluated are
determined from the unit certification document. The results of evaluations are recorded on the
AFSPC Form 4418 which certifies the member’s qualification.

A1.8.1.1. The chronological history of evaluations for a cybercrew member is recorded on an
AFSPC Form 4420. These forms are maintained in an Individual Qualification Folder (IQF).

A1.8.1.2. In all instances of documentation, use of electronic forms is authorized, to include use
of electronic signatures and wholly electronic IQFs IAW MAJCOM supplement guidance.

A1.8.1.3. Individuals assigned or attached to other than USAF units may use the format of the
service to which they are assigned/attached to document their history of qualification/
certification.

A1.8.2. Electronic Database. Units may use electronic database files for record keeping, trend
analysis, printing of standard forms, etc. Groups will establish standards for archiving and
inspection of electronic files. Units not using an electronic database will maintain hard-copy
records as directed in this instruction.

A1.8.3. IQF. The IQF contains the source documents that constitute the history of certification
for each member. The AFSPC Form 4418 is the source document used to record certification of
a member. A complete history of the AFSPC Forms 4418 in a IQF is maintained on an
accompanying AFSPC Form 4420. Software applications capturing the required information in
paragraph A1.8.4 are authorized provided the unit gains approval by the MAJCOM Stan/Eval
office prior to use.

A1.8.3.1. Electronic format IQFs are authorized provided proper security measures, backup
capability, and sustainment plans are in place. If electronic IQFs are used, the unit Chief of
Stan/Eval (or equivalent) will publish guidance on storage and layout.

A1.8.4. At a minimum the following items will be documented via approved Forms or software
applications capturing the same information.

A1.8.4.1. Acknowledgement and documentation of task qualification/certification upon
completion of evaluation.

A1.8.4.2. All errors or discrepancies identified during an evaluation.
A1.8.4.3. Evaluatee strengths, weaknesses, attitude, and corrective action (if required).

A1.8.4.4. Explanation of delays in evaluation requirements and/or completion, problems
encountered with task certification (if any).

A1.8.4.5. Placement in and removal from restricted status by the certifying official (e.g.,
MR/CMR, instructor, evaluator).

A1.8.5. AFSPC Form 4418.

A1.8.5.1. Purpose. Use the AFSPC Form 4418 as the source document to record and verify the
qualification of a cybercrew member.

A1.8.5.2. Certifying Official. The certifying official for additional training is the instructor who
administered the training.

A1.8.5.2.1. Enter the rank and organization of the instructor who administered the additional
training (or final event if more than one instructor is used) who will sign as the certifying
official.

A1.8.5.2.2. Signature. Signature of the instructor who administered the additional training.

A1.8.5.2.3. Date. Date the instructor administered the additional training.

A1.8.5.2.4. Restrictions/Exceptionally Qualified/Commander-Directed Downgrade. Place an
“X” in the appropriate block when comments are annotated in Section V. Do not annotate for
restrictions resulting from failed requisite exams.

A1.8.5.3. Completion of an AFSPC Form 4418 is accomplished by three individuals; the
Examiner, a Final Approving Officer, and the examinee. Exception: For a Commander-
Directed Downgrade AFSPC Form 4418, only the commander, as the Final Approving Officer
and individual affected signs the form.

A1.8.5.3.1. Examiner. The examiner signing Section III of the AFSPC Form 4418:

A1.8.5.3.1.1. Is responsible for the content of the AFSPC Form 4418, and will not sign Section
III until verifying all required items (IAW this GM) are documented.

A1.8.5.3.1.2. Will always place an “X” in the remarks block and make comments in the
comments block if applicable.

A1.8.5.3.1.3. Signature. Signature of the examiner.

A1.8.5.3.1.4. Date. Date the examiner signed.

A1.8.5.3.2. Reviewing and Final Approving Officers.
A1.8.5.3.2.1. The reviewing officer signature section is not used.

A1.8.5.3.2.2. The final approving officer (Squadron Commander or designate) will review the
content of the AFSPC Form 4418 and the examiner’s overall assessment, ensure all required
additional training is adequate to correct the noted deficiencies and is complete, and will place an
“X” in the “Concur” block. If the final approving officer does not agree with any portion of the
AFSPC Form 4418 they will place an “X” in the “Do Not Concur” block and provide
justification (e.g., reason for non-concurrence, suggested modifications to additional training,
etc).

A1.8.5.3.2.2.1. The final approval officer will sign and date the AFSPC Form 4418 after the
examiner but prior to the examinee. As applicable, the final approving officer may recommend
or give a commander-directed downgrade IAW paragraph A1.5.10. if further action is warranted.

A1.8.5.3.3. Examinee. The examinee will sign and date after the final approving officer
certifying that they have been debriefed and understand the action(s) being taken.

A1.9. Additional Programs (CIF, CII, Go/No-Go, Trend Analysis, SEB)

A1.9.1. Scope. This chapter provides guidance on additional programs administered by
Stan/Eval.

A1.9.2. Crew Information File (CIF). CIFs are a library consisting of a current read file and
publications. This library will consist of a minimum of three volumes as listed in Table A1.9.1.
in either hardcopy or electronic format.

A1.9.2.1. Units will establish and maintain a CIF. All publications in the CIF will be current
and complete.

Table A1.9.1. Required Volumes.
 VOLUME                                  TITLE
 VOLUME I                                Table of Contents and Current Read File
 VOLUME II                               (Deleted)
 VOLUME III                              (Deleted)
 VOLUME IV (optional)                    Safety Information

A1.9.2.2. Current Read File. Volume I consists of a minimum of two parts to include an index
(Part A) and current read files (Parts B and C) Note: Part C is optional. MAJCOMs may add
additional components to Volume I as appropriate.

A1.9.2.2.1. Part A is a table of contents listing all material contained in CIF Volumes I through
V.

A1.9.2.2.2. Part B is the Current Read File of CIF messages. Messages contain information
temporary in nature, directly pertinent to the safe conduct of operations, and must be read before
operations. CIFs that contain system-related information will be forwarded to all using
MAJCOMs.

A1.9.2.2.3. Part C is the current read file that contains information temporary in nature but not
related to the safe conduct of operations and not required to be read before operations.

A1.9.2.3. Deleted.

A1.9.2.3.1. Deleted.

A1.9.2.3.2. Deleted.

A1.9.2.3.3. Deleted.

A1.9.2.3.4. Deleted.

A1.9.2.3.4.1. Deleted.

A1.9.2.3.4.2. Deleted.

A1.9.3. Stan/Eval Command Interest Items (CII). CIIs are a tool to train members on training
deficiencies, new systems/procedures, or trends.

A1.9.3.1. CIIs are emphasis items of existing procedures designed to mitigate or eliminate
specific risks or trends. CIIs do not add to or amend established procedures. CIIs will be based
on analysis of risks and trends from a variety of sources. They may be issued by AFSPC, NAF,
or units to address incidents, trends, deployed area operations, or potential problems with
equipment/procedures. Only the issuing organization may rescind the CII.

A1.9.3.1.1. The Chief of Stan/Eval, at the discretion of the command authority, establishes
Stan/Eval CIIs.

A1.9.3.1.2. CIIs should not be used as a routine message-passing vehicle; they should only be
used to draw attention to changes or deficiencies in the certification and qualification processes.

A1.9.3.2. When an item is designated for review and evaluation as a Stan/Eval CII, the
Stan/Eval OPR will assign a CII number. The CII number will be based upon the calendar year
and numbered consecutively . The OPR will then transmit a CII message to all affected
subordinate units. Note: CIIs may be published locally at any unit that maintains a Stan/Eval
function.

A1.9.3.3. The message that announces a new Stan/Eval CII will include applicable checklists
and procedures, an expiration date, and a statement that identifies units and/or positions for
which the CII is required. Publish CII messages and all pertinent information IAW the CIF
requirements. Once the CII expires, all unit Stan/Eval functions shall incorporate the CII
procedures into the permanent program wherever applicable.
A1.9.3.4. A CII will not be established for a period longer than one year.

A1.9.3.5. All crew positional and Crew Resource Management/Operational Risk Management
(CRM/ORM) related CIIs will be briefed during turnover briefings for the duration of the CIIs.
Mission related CIIs need only be briefed on those missions for which the CII is relevant.

A1.9.3.6. Units will document CIIs in SEB minutes which will be maintained for historical
purposes. Units will document procedures for CII historical reference after expiration in a unit
supplement to this instruction.

A1.9.4. Go/No-Go Program. The purpose of the Go/No-Go program is to ensure individual
crew members are current, qualified, or adequately supervised to perform operations and have
reviewed CIF Volume 1, Part B prior to crew operations/shift change.

A1.9.4.1. Units will establish a control system to ensure crew members have completed all
training and Stan/Eval items required for duty prior to shift turn over.

A1.9.4.2. The unit commander will ensure Go/No-Go is utilized for scheduling crew members
for operations.

A1.9.4.3. The senior controller from the previous day/shift or unit commander’s designated
representative will certify the oncoming crew prior to conducting operations.

A1.9.4.4. At a minimum, the Go/No-Go process will verify the following:

A1.9.4.4.1. The training items from this GM and/or applicable supplements required for crew
duty.

A1.9.4.4.2. Ensure each crewmember has been certified Mission Ready (MR)/ Combat Mission
Ready (CMR) on the most recent Squadron Commander signed Letter of Certification (or one of
its addendums).

A1.9.4.4.3. Any mandatory training items not involving crew duty (i.e., ancillary training).

A1.9.4.4.4. Currency on all CIF (Volume I, Part B) items. An initial review and certification of
all volumes will be accomplished prior to an individual's first operational mission. Assigned or
attached crew members on extensive absence from operational missions (90 days or more) will
accomplish a complete review of all volumes prior to operations.

A1.9.4.5. Units may define and publish their control system in the unit supplement to this
instruction. Use the Go/No-Go procedures to document the review, certification, and
acknowledgment of Volume 1, Part B information by assigned, attached, and visiting crew
members. Volume 1, Part C may be monitored by using Go/No Go procedures at unit discretion.

A1.9.5. Trend Analysis Program. Trend analysis refers to the collecting of information to
identify a pattern or predict future events. Each Stan/Eval function will establish a trend analysis
program to identify, document, report, and recommend corrective action for all negative trends.
The trend analysis program is used to identify and track written, positional, and periodic
evaluation data for adverse trends. Group Stan/Eval will publish and define their trends program
in a supplement to this instruction.

A1.9.5.1. Trend Analysis Monitor. The appointed trend analysis monitor will identify, track,
and record questions that are all incorrect or questions that are consistently missed (i.e., a
question is missed by the majority) and all discrepancies or overt consistencies (lack of errors)
on positional evaluations to create trend data. The trend analysis monitor will compile and
analyze the trend data on a quarterly basis to determine if any adverse, negative, or positive
trends exist.

A1.9.5.2. Defining Trends. A positive trend is based on exceptional performance. An adverse or
negative trend is defined as sustained poor, substandard performance by a group of members in a
specific evaluation area over a period of time. The number of similar discrepancies required to
constitute a trend will vary depending upon the number of evaluations administered for a
particular position.

A1.9.5.3. Trend Responses. If a trend is identified by the above criteria, the trend analysis
monitor will:

A1.9.5.3.1. Notify the commander in writing through the Chief of Stan/Eval of the trend
identification and recommend appointment of OPR.

A1.9.5.3.2. Research and recommend corrective actions for negative trends.

A1.9.5.3.3. Assign an Office of Collateral Responsibility (OCR).

A1.9.5.3.4. Identify the suspense date by which corrective actions will be in place.

A1.9.5.3.5. Follow-up on open trends to verify the actions taken to correct the trend.

A1.9.5.3.6. Ensure all trends are widely publicized in the unit using read files, bulletin boards,
newsletters, or other means.

A1.9.5.3.7. Ensure trends are briefed at the SEB and included in minutes until closed.

A1.9.5.4. Closing Trends. Trends will only be closed when a subsequent quarterly trend
analysis indicates the adverse trend no longer exists.

A1.9.6. Stan/Eval Board. An SEB is a forum convened at the group level to review and resolve
Stan/Eval related issues. See Attachment 4 for an example of what should be captured in the
SEB minutes.

A1.9.6.1. SEB Monitor.
A1.9.6.1.1. Prepares SEB minutes in accordance with applicable instructional supplements for
group commander approval.

A1.9.6.1.2. Distributes the approved minutes to NAF/OV and unit commanders.

A1.9.6.2. Units will compile information gathered within periods established as 1 January
through 30 June, and 1 July through 31 December, for their SEB. SEBs will be conducted NLT
28 February and 31 August.

A1.9.6.3. Attendees will include all permanent-party SEEs unless excused by Chief of OGV,
(acceptable excuses include: TDY, on leave, quarters). Additional-duty SEEs and squadron
commanders are highly encouraged to attend. Absent SEB members will, at a minimum, read
SEB minutes. For units not collocated, SEE attendance is not mandatory, but may be done via
video teleconference.

A1.9.7. New or Upgraded System Requirements. For new or upgraded Cyberspace Operations
systems, the unit training office and standardization and evaluation office will develop training
and evaluation programs to meet requirements within this instruction, AFI 36-2251, and AFSPCI
36-283, Space Training System Management. The following activities must be accomplished by
the responsible AFSPC organization to ensure a smooth transition from program development to
the Operational Acceptance (OA) or Initial Operational Capability (IOC) of new or upgraded
Cyberspace Operations systems:

A1.9.7.1. The unit standardization and evaluation office will coordinate with the appropriate
wing, group, and/or 24 AF/OV for specific requirements for planning a new evaluation program
to include a validation plan and program approval strategy.
                                            Attachment 2

                       STAN/EVAL EXAMINER (SEE) OBJECTIVITY

A2.1. Instructions. The following is an example that may be used by the Chief of Stan/Eval or
appointed SEEs when conducting SEE Objectivity.

Table A2.1. Stan/Eval Examiner Objectivity Criteria Example.
 AREA 1 – COMPLIANCE WITH Stan/Eval DIRECTIVES
 Q   Complied with all directives pertaining to the administration of the evaluation.
 Q- Complied with most directives. Deviations did not jeopardize the effectiveness of the
     evaluation or mission success/safety.
 U   Failed to comply with directives or allowed mission success/safety to be jeopardized.
 AREA 2 – EXAMINER’S BRIEFING
 Q   Thoroughly briefed the examinee on the conduct of the evaluation, mission requirements,
     responsibilities, grading criteria, and examiner actions/position during the evaluation.
 Q- Items were omitted during the briefing causing minor confusion. Did not fully brief the
     examinee as to the conduct and purpose of the evaluation.
 U   Examiner failed to adequately brief the examinee.
 AREA 3 – IDENTIFICATION OF DISCREPANCIES AND ASSIGNMENT OF AREA
 GRADES
 Q   Identified all discrepancies and assigned proper area grade.
 Q- Most discrepancies were identified. Failed to assign Q- grade when appropriate. Assigned
     discrepancies for performance which was within standards.
 U   Failed to identify discrepancies related to mission discipline or deviations which merited an
     unqualified grade. Assigned Q- grades that should have been U or assigned U grades for
     performance within standards.
 AREA 4 – ASSESSMENT OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE
 Q   Awarded the appropriate overall grade based on the examinee’s performance.
 Q- Awarded an overall grade without consideration of cumulative deviations in the examinee’s
     performance.
 U   Did not award a grade commensurate with overall performance.
 AREA 5 – APPROPRIATE ASSIGNMENT OF ADDITIONAL TRAINING
 Q   Assigned proper additional training if warranted and briefed the individual’s training
     officer.
 Q- Additional training assigned was insufficient to ensure the examinee would achieve proper
     level of qualification.
 U   Failed to assign additional training when warranted and/or failed to brief the individual’s
     training officer.
 AREA 6 – MISSION CRITIQUE
 Q   Thoroughly debriefed the examinee on all aspects of the evaluation. Debriefed all key
     mission events, providing instruction and references as required.
 Q- Failed to discuss all deviations and assigned grades. Did not advise the examinee of
     additional training, if required. Failed to debrief or adequately reconstruct all key mission
     events.
 U   Did not discuss any assigned area grades or the overall rating. Changed grades without
     briefing the examinee. Did not debrief mission at all. Debriefed few or no key mission
     events.
                                          Attachment 3

                           EVALUATION CRITERIA EXAMPLE

A3.1. The below information provides assistance in developing evaluation criteria:

A3.1.1. Identify tasks/subtasks essential for mission accomplishment.

A3.1.2. Define the task standard level (A, B, or C) for each task/subtask.

A3.1.3. Group like tasks/subtasks and consolidate in a Master Training Task List (MTTL).

A.3.1.3.1. Level A/Critical task/sub-task. Critical tasks are tasks that could result in mission
failure, endangerment of human life, serious injury or death. Critical tasks have the greatest
potential for extreme mission or personnel impacts and drive the most stringent training and
evaluation program requirements. Critical tasks apply to time-sensitive tasks or tasks that must
be accomplished as expeditiously as possible without any intervening lower priority actions that
would, in the normal sequence of events, adversely affect task performance/outcome.

A.3.1.3.2. Level B/Essential task/sub-task. Essential tasks are tasks deemed integral to the
performance of other tasks and required to sustain acceptable weapon system operations and
mission execution. Essential tasks drive significant training requirements.

A.3.1.3.3. Level C/Non-Essential task/sub-task. Non-Essential tasks are rudimentary or simple
tasks related to weapons system operations that by themselves have little or no impact on
mission execution. Non-Essential tasks require the least stringent training requirements.

A3.1.4. Use the samples below as examples only.

Table A3.1. (Sample) Level A/Critical Task Requirements.
PERFORM MISSION SYSTEM OUTAGE PROCEDURES (B01A)
EVALUATION STANDARD
Q. Obtained the correct checklist based on the scenario presented. Executed all required steps.
U. Failed to locate and/or utilize the appropriate checklist based on the scenario presented. Did not
perform checklist steps correctly. Failed to meet one or more of the evaluation criteria.

Table A3.2. (Sample) Level B/Essential Task Requirements
PERFORM STATUS OF MANNING ACTIONS (A01B)
EVALUATION STANDARD
Q. All crew members accounted for and currency validated prior to start of shift. Crew coverage
verified to be sufficient prior to departure of the previous crew.
Q-. Failed to meet one or more of the evaluation criteria prior to start of shift. All crew members
accounted for, but currency or accounting were not completed prior to start of shift. Discrepancies did
not result in a manning shortfall for the shift.
U. Failed to locate and/or utilize the appropriate checklist based on the scenario presented. One or more
evaluation criteria were not met.
Table A3.3. (Sample) Level C/Critical Task Requirements
PERFORM CREW CHANGEOVER/SHIFT ACTIONS (A01A)
EVALUATION STANDARD
Q. All evaluation criteria met.
Q-. Failed to meet one or more of the evaluation criteria.
U. Evaluation criteria were not met.
                                         Attachment 4

                              STAN/EVAL BOARD MINUTES

Note: The information below is an example of the minimum information a board should
address.

MEMORANDUM FOR (SEE DISTRIBUTION)

FROM: (UNIT’S COMPLETE ADDRESS)

SUBJECT: Stan/Eval BOARD MINUTES

1. Personnel Attending (name and organization)

2. Overview.

a. Manning. Enter any Stan/Eval manning problems discussed or deviations from authorized
manning. Record all current weapon system examiners including attached HHQ and/or attached
squadron weapon system examiners. Include any OG/CC designated additional OGV weapon
system examiners.

b. Summary.

(1) Evaluations. Report weapon system evaluations by crew position and type of evaluation
(QUAL and MSN as outlined in the appropriate MAJCOM policy and guidance). Include SPOT,
and N/N evaluations, when applicable. Show qualification levels, sub-levels, and rates (rate =
number of each type of test given divided by total given).

(a) Q1s

(b) Q2s

(c) Q3s

(d) Total evaluations for each crew position

(2) Examinations. Report examination results by crew position and type of examination (open
book, and closed book.

(3) Waivers and Extensions. Identify all waivers and extensions as identified in this GM.

(4) Trends. Identify new, continuing, and resolved trends. Where necessary, report corrective
action as OPEN/CLOSED, the OPR(s) and any suspense date.

(5) Report progress toward achievement of no-notice requirements, if applicable.
c. Stan/Eval Program Inspections and Reviews (if applicable).

d. Cybercrew Publications. Review open AF Form 847s.

3. Old Business. Enter the disposition of any items left open at the last board meeting. If final
action was taken on an item during the quarter, state the action taken and then close the item if
closure is approved by the board chairman. If an item remains open, list the action taken since the
last board. Findings from formal Stan/Eval inspections will be addressed and covered until they are
closed out.

4. New Business. Enter all new business discussed during the board. The new business items are
those included on the published agenda along with any unplanned items discussed.

5. Other: This is an optional paragraph that can be used as necessary.

6. Problems Requiring HHQ Assistance. Enter problems that, based on board resolution, require
HHQ assistance. The assistance may be in any form (for example, staff assistance visit requests,
clarification of directives, change of directives, and so forth).




                                                              (SIGNATURE BLOCK)

Attachments:
1. Board Agenda
2. Weapon System Examiner Roster Reviewed
3. As Required
                                         Attachment 5

                                CYBERCREW POSITIONS

A5.1. HQ AFSPC/A3 is the sole authority for revoking or establishing MR/CMR positions. 24
AF will submit recommendations with appropriate justification to HQ AFSPC/A3TT. Upon
approval, HQ AFSPC/A3 will update applicable guidance. The following positions have been
designated as MR/CMR by units and weapon systems.

Network Attack System (NAS)
91st Network Warfare Squadron

 Cyberspace Crew Commander
 Cyberspace Operations Controller
 Cyberspace Operator
 Cyberspace Operations Technician

Cyberspace Command and Control Mission System (C3MS)
624th Operations Center
119th Command and Control Squadron1

 Senior Duty Officer
 Watch Officer
 Cyberspace Operations Controller
 Offensive Cyber Operations Controller
 Cyberspace Operations Strategist
 Cyberspace Effects Planner
 Cyberspace Analyst

Air Force Cyberspace Defense (ACD)
33rd Network Warfare Squadron
102nd Information Warfare Squadron1

 Cyberspace Crew Commander
 Cyberspace Operations Controller
 Cyberspace Analyst - Network Defense
 Cyberspace Analyst - Incident Response
 Cyberspace Signature Writer
 Cyberspace Analyst - Forensic
Cyberspace Defense Analysis (CDA)
68th/352nd/352nd Det 1, Network Warfare Squadrons
610th/710th Information Operations Squadrons1

 Cyberspace Operations Controller
 Cyberspace Operations Analyst

Cyberspace Vulnerability Assessment/Hunter (CVA/Hunter)
92nd Information Operations Squadron
262nd Network Warfare Squadron/261st/143rd Information Operations Squadrons1

 Cyberspace Crew Commander
 Cyberspace Operator
 Cyberspace Analyst
Note 1: Mission-aligned Air Reserve Component units
                                          Attachment 6

                         624th OPERATIONS CENTER GUIDANCE

A6.1. PURPOSE

A6.1.1. General. This instruction establishes the general requirements of the 624 OC
standardization and evaluation (Stan/Eval) program.

A6.1.2. Purpose. This instruction identifies the objectives, organization, and responsibilities of
the 624 OC Stan/Eval program, and provides administrative procedures. To gain recognition by
the unit CC as MR/CMR, individuals must complete a positional or functional area certification
based upon positional/functional area training with oversight provided by unit training manager
and 624 OC division/team leads. Individuals must then complete formal open and closed book
written evaluations (examinations) conducted by 624 OC Stan/Eval based on the 624 OC master
question file (MQF). The 624 OC may develop a supplement to this instruction in accordance
with (IAW) A6.5, outlining unit-specific Stan/Eval policies and procedures.

A6.1.3. Objectives. The overall objective of the 624 OC Stan/Eval program is to standardize
procedures and provide commanders with a tool to validate mission readiness and provide
meaningful indicators reflecting division/team and overall unit qualifications, capabilities, and
effectiveness. Specific program objectives are to:

A6.1.3.1. Develop, evaluate, and ensure standardization of 624 OC operational procedures.

A6.1.3.2. Assess unit effectiveness and ensure compliance with appropriate operational,
training, and administrative directives.

A6.1.3.3. Evaluate and revise operational directives, procedures, and techniques as required.

A6.1.3.4. Provide the beginnings of a system to assess and document individual knowledge,
proficiency, and capability to accomplish assigned 624 OC duties.

A6.1.3.5. Identify trends and recommend changes to 624 OC programs, processes, and
directives.

A6.1.4. HQ AFSPC/A3T Responsibilities.

A6.1.4.1. Provide Stan/Eval policy to 24 AF and will establish responsibility for implementation
of the program as outlined in this instruction for active duty and aligned ANG and AFRC units.

A6.1.4.2. Establish general Stan/Eval requirements for the 624 OC.

A6.2. 624 OC Stan/Eval Functions and Organization
A6.2.1. Scope. 624 OC/CC has the overall responsibility for establishing the Stan/Eval function
within the organization. Personnel assigned to support the 624 OC not listed in Attachment 5
will utilize the training program outlined in AFI 36-2201 quality assurance program outlined in
AFI 33-150 and AFSC Job Qualification Standards. Intelligence personnel assigned to support
the 624 OC will use the AFI 14-202 series.

A6.2.2. 624 OC Commander Responsibilities. The conduct of the 624 OC Stan/Eval program is
directed by and resides under the supervision/responsibility of the commander.

A6.2.2.1. Establish a unit Stan/Eval function to perform the duties directed by this instruction
and applicable supplements.

A6.2.2.2. Ensure materials provided are accurate and current.

A6.2.2.3. Direct evaluations to maintain a quality force.

A6.2.2.4. Direct individual qualification downgrades as necessary.

A6.2.2.5. Designate unit Stan/Eval managers or evaluators in writing.

A6.2.2.6. Approve and designate individuals as MR/CMR.

A6.2.2.7. May request waivers to the basic guidance in this instruction through appropriate
channels to HQ AFSPC.

A6.2.3. 624 OC Stan/Eval Function Responsibilities: Emphasize the process of standardization
across 624 OC functions where applicable. Unit Stan/Eval will:

A6.2.3.1. Establish and implement procedures for the evaluation program IAW A6.3,
Evaluations. Document the evaluation program IAW A6.4., Evaluation Documentation.

A6.2.3.2. Develop a MQF.

A6.2.3.2.1. Coordinate and submit required local inputs with assistance from subordinate teams
and cells. Each 624 OC division will submit a minimum of 50 MQF questions focusing on unit
mission/theater specific processes, skills, and knowledge items. These questions will become the
standardized MQF.

A6.2.3.2.2. Administer open and closed book written evaluations for: mission qualification
evaluations/examination (MQE), requalification evaluations/examination (RQE) and recommend
awarding of MR/CMR status to the commander.

A6.2.3.2.3. Establish procedures for review and quality control of evaluation documentation.

A6.2.3.2.4. Establish, manage, and maintain a trend analysis program.
A6.2.3.2.4.1. When trends are noted, assign an OPR/OCR to determine if corrective or best seen
actions are required; report trends and status to the commander until closed.

A6.2.3.2.4.2. The unit trend analysis program will be defined in the unit supplement to this
instruction.

A6.2.3.2.4.3. Trend data will be maintained for at least 2 years.

A6.2.3.3. Manage and conduct evaluations IAW this instruction and applicable MAJCOM/ unit
supplements.

A6.2.3.4. Process, track, and maintain AF Forms 847.

A6.2.3.5. Establish local Special Interest Items as required.

A6.2.3.6. Review and ensure standardization of locally developed 624 OC division or team
positional/functional area checklists.

A6.2.4. Stan/Eval Manager or Evaluator Responsibilities.

A6.2.4.1. The evaluation portion of the Stan/Eval program is administered by Stan/Eval
managers or evaluators.

A6.2.4.2. Commanders should select a minimum of two unit Stan/Eval managers or evaluators
based on their qualifications and experience. Commanders, when possible, should maintain a
cadre of experienced evaluators to facilitate implementation of subsequent phases of the 624 OC
Stan/Eval program.

A6.2.4.3. Stan/Eval Managers or Evaluators will:

A6.2.4.3.1. Conduct written examinations/evaluations as required and support unit Stan/Eval
functions as outlined in this instruction.

A6.2.4.3.2. Maintain MR/CMR status.

A6.2.4.3.3. Immediately notify the examinee’s supervisor and/or commander, as applicable,
whenever unsatisfactory performance/knowledge is observed.

A6.2.4.3.4. Manage the unit trend analysis program to identify operational or training factors
that affect 624 OC capability. Make specific recommendations for corrective action as needed.

A6.2.4.3.5. Provide oversight on 624 OC division or team positional/functional area certification
checklist development and maintenance.
A6.3. EVALUATIONS

A6.3.1. General. The initial phase of the 624 OC Stan/Eval Program requires positional/
functional area certifications conducted under the unit training program and written
evaluations/examinations to ensure qualification of personnel. Written evaluations/examinations
are conducted by Stan/Eval to ensure personnel obtain the depth of academic knowledge
required within their respective division/team/ functional area positions in order to proficiently
perform 624 OC duties. Written evaluations/examinations are required for all 624 OC members
to attain and maintain MR/CMR status. Positional/functional area evaluations are not required as
part of the unit Stan/Eval program; however, a separate positional/functional area certification
process at the division, team or functional area level for all 624 OC member positions is required
as part of the evaluation process and recommendation for MR/CMR status. The division chief is
responsible for ensuring positional/functional area certifications are conducted and the results
reported to the training office. The commander has the authority and is encouraged to develop
additional unit or positional/functional area evaluations. Document unit specific evaluation
requirements in the unit supplement to this instruction.

A6.3.2. Evaluations. Phase 1 of the 624 OC Stan/Eval program consists of three types of
evaluations: listed in the following paragraphs. Additionally, provisions exist for commanders
to evaluate and certify specific performance through optional SPOT evaluations. The guidance
and procedures, if used, will be documented in the unit supplement to this instruction.

A6.3.2.1. Initial Qualification Evaluation/Examination (IQE) is based on either students passing
academics in the 39 IOS Formal Training Unit (FTU) or passing 624 OC commander-approved
initial qualification training (IQT) program.

A6.3.2.2. Mission Qualification Evaluation/Examination (MQE). All assigned MR/CMR
624 OC personnel will complete an MQE for their primary assigned duty position/functional
area after completing MQT.

A6.3.2.2.1. The MQE written evaluation/examination is administered after a crewmember has
completed the MQT syllabus, and has been position/functional area certified by another
MR/CMR team member on all MQT positional/functional area requirements IAW the unit
supplement to this GM and division/team chief or flight commander approval.

A6.3.2.2.2. Upon completion of MQT, Stan/Eval will administer the MQE written evaluation/
examination, which will consist of an open and closed book test. MQE written examination
questions will be drawn from the MQF.

A6.3.2.2.3. Upon successful completion of the MQE the individual will be certified as
MR/CMR by the 624 OC/CC.

A6.3.2.3. Recurring and Requalification Evaluations/Examinations (RQE). RQE’s are
conducted when an individual reaches his/her window as outlined in Table A6.3.1. RQEs are
administered for one of two reasons: to recheck an individual who failed an MQE or RQE; or
following loss of qualification due to commander- or supervisor-directed downgrade (See
A6.3.4.8.4.).

A6.3.2.3.1. The RQE for requalification and directed downgrade includes both a
positional/functional area certification and a written evaluation/examination. The written
evaluation/examination consists of an open and closed book test. Recheck of individuals who
failed an MQE written eval/exam will be written evaluation/examination only.

A6.3.2.3.2. RQE written evaluations/examination questions will be drawn from the local MQF.

A6.3.2.3.3. Successful completion of an RQE will update an individual’s evaluation due date.
The commander will re-certify the individual as MR/CMR.

A6.3.2.4. SPOT Evaluations. SPOT Evaluations are conducted at the discretion of the unit
commander, director of operations or equivalent, or Stan/Eval or Q/A chief. SPOT Evaluations
are conducted to ensure discrepancies noted in MQE were corrected or to spot check an
individual’s proficiency.

A6.3.2.4.1. SPOT Evaluations consist of individual evaluations. SPOT evaluations must adhere
to same standards outlined in this AFI for all evaluations. 624 OC Stan/Eval will develop
performance standards for any unit mission related tasks to be evaluated and identify
requirements in the unit supplement to this instruction.

A6.3.2.4.2. Document SPOT evaluations in the learning management system (LMS) or with
other locally developed forms and maintain electronically or in the individual’s training record.

A6.3.3. Personnel Status.

A6.3.3.1. Mission Ready (MR)/Combat Mission Ready (CMR). MR or CMR is the
qualification level status awarded to an 624 OC crewmember who has satisfactorily completed
MQT, successfully accomplished an MQE and been given MR/CMR status by the unit
commander. These crewmembers have been positional/functional area certified and are deemed
proficient in all of the primary missions tasked to their assigned 624 OC crew position. The
applicable crewmember positions are outlined in Attachment 5. To retain MR/CMR status,
crewmembers must complete all continuation training requirements IAW AFSPC GM 10-1,
maintain proficiency and qualification via recurring evaluations as prescribed in A6.3.2.3.

A6.3.3.2. Non-Mission Ready (N-MR) or Non-Combat Mission Ready(N-CMR). N-MR/N-
CMR is a regressed qualification level status of an individual who has failed to maintain
MR/CMR status. Individuals may be regressed for one of the following reasons:

A6.3.3.2.1. Does not complete annual continuation training requirements.

A6.3.3.2.2. Fails a written examination during a recurring evaluation.
A6.3.3.2.3. Fails to complete a recurring evaluation by the scheduled due date without unit
commander’s waiver as identified in A6.3.4.8.2.

A6.3.3.2.4. The unit commander, division chief, team chief, or individual’s supervisor
determines member to be non-proficient.

A6.3.3.3. Unqualified. Unqualified (UQ) is the qualification level of an individual who is not
qualified to perform 624 OC duties. The UQ status applies to an individual who has:

A6.3.3.3.1. Not yet completed IQT training requirements and/or successfully completed IQE.

A6.3.3.3.2. Been downgraded at the direction of the commander.

A6.3.3.3.3. Failed an initial or recurring evaluation.

A6.3.3.3.4. Failed to complete a recurring evaluation prior to the end of an eligibility period.

A6.3.4. Examination Procedures.

A6.3.4.1. Program Documentation. Document local examination procedures in the unit
supplement to this instruction.

A6.3.4.2. Retention of Examination Records. Retain graded exam answer sheets or computer
records for at least 3 months, or until documented IAW A6.4.

A6.3.4.3. Examination Question Review. Stan/Eval will review all MQFs and exams for
accuracy annually and after any changes in source documents. Units will document their
procedures for reviewing and updating MQFs and prepared exams in the unit supplement to this
instruction.

A6.3.4.3.1. Unit Stan/Eval functions as outlined in unit/group supplements to this GM, will
develop and control written examinations for each division, team, cell, functional area, or duty
position, as applicable. However, when different duty positions are responsible for identical
information, a single examination will suffice.

A6.3.4.3.2. Unit Stan/Eval will maintain two tests on file for each team, cell, functional area, or
duty position as determined by division chief and ensure that no more than 50% of the questions
are duplicated between tests.

A6.3.4.3.3. Units using computer-generated examinations do not need to maintain the
examinations referenced above provided the following restrictions are observed:

A6.3.4.3.3.1. Individual examinations are randomly generated from the standardized MQF.

A6.3.4.3.3.2. Re-examinations are constructed so that duplication of questions is kept to a
minimum.
A6.3.4.4. Test Security. Stan/Eval personnel, as outlined in unit/group supplements to this AFI,
will maintain positive control of all tests, applicable answer sheets, and associated computer
based/electronic media.

A6.3.4.5. Type of Tests.

A6.3.4.5.1. Open Book Tests. Open book test questions will come from publications made
available to the individual during testing. Open book questions will contain information
pertinent to overall 624 OC operational procedures as described in AF/MAJCOM/unit directives,
TTPs, or other documents from the unit’s read file. Each unit may develop an open book secure
question bank (SQB) that serves as the source for some or all of the open book test questions.
Do not distribute the SQB to personnel and safeguard it in the same manner as any other required
STAN/ EVAL examination. The open book test will consist of a minimum of ten questions.

A6.3.4.5.2. Closed Book Tests. Closed book questions will come from the MQF. These
questions will emphasize crewmember division, team, cell, functional area, positional knowledge
and information essential to mission accomplishment. The closed book test will consist of a
minimum or 20 questions and a maximum of 100 questions. All questions will be directly
related to the 624 OC member’s crew, division, functional area duties, general knowledge, and
unit theater/mission tasking and come from AF, MAJCOM, Unit directives, TTPs, or other
documents from the unit’s read file.

A6.3.4.6. Master Question File (MQF). 624 OC Stan/Eval is responsible for maintenance and
oversight of the MQF. The MQF will be made available to unit training personnel to facilitate
IQT/MQT training. MQF questions will be multiple choice or true/false. They will contain the
appropriate reference for validation.

A6.3.4.7. Failure to Pass. A written exam will not be complete until all failed items have been
successfully re-accomplished.

A6.3.4.7.1. Reexamination Policy. An individual failing a required test must be afforded an
adequate study period of a minimum of 24 hours prior to reexamination. The individual will be
reevaluated using an alternate exam.

A6.3.4.7.2. Reexamination Period. Individuals who fail a required test must complete a
successful reexamination within 30 days (ARC 3 months) following the date of the failure. The
unit commander has waiver authority to extend the time allowed to successfully complete the
examination. Document such waivers with a memo for record placed in the individual training
record.

A6.3.4.7.3. Additional Training. Following a failed examination, an evaluator will make
additional training recommendations electronically or in writing to the unit training office to
assist in eliminating any deficiencies identified during an examination. Additional training may
include self-study, instruction, use of a computer based training program, or an event.
A6.3.4.7.4. Restrictions.

A6.3.4.7.4.1. Crewmembers who fail RQE written evaluations/exams after the second attempt
will be regressed to N-MR/N-CMR. Based upon recommendation of the evaluator and the
supervisor, the unit CC may allow the individual to continue 624 OC duties under supervision or
take appropriate action to remove individual from the weapons system. If the unit CC allows
resumption of duties under supervision, the individual must pass the next written
evaluation/examination. If a third failure occurs, the unit CC will take appropriate action to
remove individual from the weapons system.

A6.3.4.7.4.2. Restrictions should address the specific task or event that requires supervision
until successful retraining is completed. Restrictions are not punitive, but designed to enhance
performance and proficiency.

A6.3.4.7.4.3. Specific restrictions will be documented in crewmember’s training folder.

A6.3.4.7.5. Commander-Directed Downgrade. The unit CC may direct a downgrade of an
624 OC crewmember to N-MR/N-CMR or UQ status if he/she deems circumstances warrant it.

A6.3.4.7.5.1. Reasons for downgrades to UQ status may include, but are not limited to, repeated
evaluation or continuation training failures, recurring failures to meet training or evaluation
suspenses, failure to maintain necessary security clearance, etc.

A6.3.4.7.5.2. Such downgrades should be taken in consultation with individual’s supervisor as
well as Stan/Eval and the unit training manager when appropriate.

A6.3.4.7.5.3. 624 OC supplements to this instruction may include guidance for downgrade
processes and documentation. All documentation of downgrades will be maintained in
crewmember’s training folder.

A6.3.4.8. Timing of Qualification Evaluations

A6.3.4.8.1. MQE. Complete this evaluation within 30 days (ARC 3 months) after the unit
training office has certified an individual's MQT is complete. After the crewmember passes
written evaluation/exam, Stan/Eval notifies the training office and forwards the MR/CMR
recommendation to the unit commander for approval.

A6.3.4.8.2. RQE. Required recurring evaluations expire after 17th month (ARC 36 months).
For example, an individual’s evaluation occurs in Jan 2012, the individual enters continuation
training, the eligibility window for the individual’s periodic check begins in Jan 2013, and
certification expires in Jul 2013. See Table A6.3.1., Eligibility Window and Expiration Date
Timelines.
Table A6.3.1. Eligibility Window and Expiration Date Timelines.
 MQE check         Start CT         Enter eligibility window (1    Expiration month Active/ARC
 month                              year after MQE check)          (18/37/mo. post MQE check)
 Jan               Feb              Jan                            Jul/Feb
 Feb               Mar              Feb                            Aug/Mar
 Mar               Apr              Mar                            Sep/Apr
 Apr               May              Apr                            Oct/May
 May               Jun              May                            Nov/Jun
 Jun               Jul              Jun                            Dec/Jul
 Jul               Aug              Jul                            Jan/Aug
 Aug               Sep              Aug                            Feb/Sep
 Sep               Oct              Sep                            Mar/Oct
 Oct               Nov              Oct                            Apr/Nov
 Nov               Dec              Nov                            May/Dec
 Dec               Jan              Dec                            Jun/Jan

A6.3.4.8.3. Scheduling. Schedule periodic evaluations in the eligibility period (the 6-month
period, 12-month period prior for ARC, prior to the expiration date.)

A6.3.4.8.4. Commander-Extended Evaluations. Commanders may extend the expiration date of
periodic evaluations up to 3 months for the reasons listed below:

A6.3.4.8.4.1. Individual assigned permanent change of station (PCS)/permanent change of
assignment (PCA).

A6.3.4.8.4.2. Individual departing for extended TDY or deployment.

A6.3.4.8.4.3. Individual removal from active military status (e.g. separation or retirement from
the Service).

A6.3.5. Positional/Functional Area Certifications.

A6.3.5.1. Positional/functional area certifications will be conducted as outlined in the unit
supplement to this GM and approved by the 624 OC/CC. Normally this certification will be
conducted by a team/division member qualified MR/CMR in the particular duty position.

A6.3.5.2. For future development of Stan/Eval checklists, individuals conducting
positional/functional area certifications will use locally produced positional/functional area
certification checklists for the duty position, team, or functional area.

A6.3.5.3. Positional/functional area certifications should be accomplished before the MQE.
Positional/functional area certifications should be conducted by someone other than the
crewmember’s primary trainer.
A6.3.5.4. Upon completion of the certification process, the certifier will forward results of the
certification and identify additional training recommendations electronically or in writing to the
unit training manager. The unit training manager will then notify the Stan/Eval that the
crewmember is ready for the MQE.

A6.3.5.5. Specific unit positional/functional area certification procedures and criteria, to include
failures and recertifications, will be outlined in the unit supplement to this instruction.

A6.3.5.6. Positional/functional area certification will be conducted within 30 days (ARC 3
months) after the unit training manager has identified an individual's MQT as complete.

A6.4. EVALUATION DOCUMENTATION

A6.4.1. Scope. Administration of the Stan/Eval program requires accurate documentation. The
results of cybercrew evaluations are recorded on the AFSPC Form 4418. The chronological
history of evaluations for a cybercrew member is recorded on an AFSPC Form 4420. These
AFSPC forms are maintained in the CEF. The 624 OC will outline local documentation
procedures in a supplement to this instruction.

A6.4.2. Format. Computer generated forms or databases may be used to record test scores and
cumulative evaluation results. Software applications capturing the same information as the
AFSPC Form 4418 and AFSPC Form 4420 are authorized provided the unit gains approval by
the HQ AFSPC/A3T prior to use.

A6.4.3. Requirements.

A6.4.3.1. MR/CMR Certification. Upon completion of MQE and approval of unit CC, the
training manager documents MR/CMR certification in the individual’s training folder or using
approved software.

A6.4.3.2. The unit Stan/Eval function will centrally maintain and document the following
written evaluations/examinations:

A6.4.3.2.1. Results for all crewmembers.

A6.4.3.2.2. History for all crewmembers to include types of written evaluations and completion
dates.

A6.4.3.2.3. Trend analysis for at least 2 years.

A6.4.4. PCS of Individual.

A6.4.4.1. Members will normally have an electronic copy forwarded and/or hand-carry their
training records to the gaining organization. When circumstances prevent this, the losing
organization will mail the folder to the gaining unit.
A6.4.5. Retention of Records. Retain all individual records in the training folder until reviewed
by the gaining unit. After review, return those forms not retained in the folder to the individual.

A6.5. UNIT LOCAL PROCEDURES

A6.5.1. Purpose. 624 OC may document local Stan/Eval procedures in a supplement to this
instruction. Unit supplements may be more but not less restrictive than this instruction and
include as a minimum:

A6.5.2. Stan/Eval Organization.

A6.5.2.1. Detailed local internal organization.

A6.5.2.2. Coordination between unit Stan/Eval and 624 OC division representatives including
responsibilities for each agency.

A6.5.3. Control of Evaluation Documentation.

A6.5.3.1. Procedures for documenting evaluation requirements.

A6.5.3.2. Additional training follow-up procedures.

A6.5.4. Conduct of Evaluations.

A6.5.4.1. Written Evaluations/Examinations.

A6.5.4.1.1. Unit written evaluation/examination and test control procedures.

A6.5.4.1.2. Procedures for retesting individuals who fail.

A6.5.4.2. Positional/Functional Area Certifications.

A6.5.4.2.1. Division/team/functional area positional certification procedures and certification
criteria.

A6.5.4.2.2. Division/team positional/functional area recertification or initial certification follow-
up procedures and criteria.

A6.5.5. Trend Analysis.

A6.5.5.1. Unit tracking procedures for identification of trends.

A6.5.5.2. Log of actions taken to resolve issues.

A6.5.6. Positional/Functional Area Supplementary Evaluation Program.
A6.5.6.1. Procedures and standards or conducting positional/functional area evaluations as
applicable if required by 624 OC/CC.

A6.5.6.2. Identification of checklist for use in supplementary evaluation.
                                                                                Attachment 7

                                                              MR/CMR REPORT EXAMPLE

Figure A7.1. MR/CMR Report (list all MR/CMR duty positions on UMD, even if currently
empty; if not empty provide incumbent).




                                                                                                                                        Current/Projected MR/CMR
                                                                                                                 MR/CMR Certified Y/N
                                               MR/CMR Billet? Y/N
          UMD Billet Number


                              UMD Duty Title




                                                                                     First Name
                                                                    Last Name




                                                                                                                                        Position(s)
                                                                                                  Grade


                                                                                                          AFSC
  Unit
