                             DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND




                                                                           AFSPCGM2014-33-02

                                                                                     23 May 2013

                                                                                   21 March 2014
MEMORANDUM FOR SEE DISTRIBUTION

FROM: HQ AFSPC/A3
      150 Vandenberg Street, Suite 1105
      Peterson AFB CO 80914-4240

SUBJECT: HQ AFSPC Guidance Memorandum for Combat Communications Employment
         Standards (CCES)

RELEASABILITY: This publication has no releasability restrictions.

   By Order of the Air Force Space Command Commander, this Guidance Memorandum
immediately implements CCES. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To the
extent its direction is inconsistent with other Air Force (or the issuing organization’s)
publications, the information herein prevails IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

    In advance of publication of the appropriate Air Force Instruction (AFI), the attachments to
this memorandum provide CCES guidance that is effective immediately.

   Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this Memorandum are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
on the Web at http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.




                                GUARDIANS OF THE HIGH FRONTIER
The guidance in this memorandum becomes void after one year from the date of this
memorandum, or upon release of an AF publication incorporating the guidance, whichever is
earlier.




                                               DAVID J. BUCK
                                               Brigadier General, USAF
                                               Director of Air, Space and
                                                 Cyberspace Operations
Distribution:
HQ AFSPC/IG
HQ AFSPC/A6
HQ AFRC/A3
ANG/IGB
24 AF/A3/OV
688 CW/CC
67 NWW/CC
                                          Attachment 1

    COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS COMMAND AND CONTROL EMPLOYMENT
                          STANDARDS

A1.1. Purpose. Expeditionary cyberspace operations are critical to the United States Air Force
(USAF) and the entire Department of Defense (DoD). The networks that combat communicators
provide enable an unprecedented amount of operational capability. The Air Force depends,
fights through, and actively defends these enclaves. This guidance memorandum applies to
Headquarters Air Force Space Command (HQ AFSPC) and all HQ AFSPC owned and gained
combat communications units. This instruction applies to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units with combat communications responsibilities. This
memorandum details the tactical communications capabilities available to the Combatant
Commander. It also details expected employment timelines and standardizes mobility readiness
requirements for Combat Communications personnel who operate or maintain expeditionary
cyber systems. Furthermore, air traffic control, navigational aids, and Air Traffic Control (ATC)
radar systems are capabilities the combat communications units can provide and are included as
part of this memorandum until the mission is divested to another command.
A1.1.1. Objectives. The “Extend the Net” (ETN) function is assigned to Air Force’s combat
communications community for which HQ AFSPC is Command Lead. Combat
Communications forces are the premiere experts at Establish the Base (ETB) and Close the Base
(CTB) capabilities. This GM serves to outline the service thresholds that Combat
Communications units will provide in support of the ETB and CTB mission. This memorandum
outlines unit roles, responsibilities, and timelines to ensure communications systems and
equipment are properly employed to meet mission requirements.
A1.1.1.1. Assumptions. This memorandum establishes standards applicable to all units
supporting or conducting Combat Communications operations. This GM provides employment
standards and the information herein is assumed to apply solely to operations supporting the
ETN mission only.
A1.1.1.2. Combat Communications will provide initial “reach-back,” voice, data, video,
networking services and radio capabilities to a small contingency operation, scalable up to an Air
Expeditionary Wing or equivalent large joint operation. Until the mission is divested, Combat
Communications units can also provide air traffic control, navigational aids, and ATC radar
systems to support the build-up of Air and Space Expeditionary Forces during deployed and
contingency operations. All of the forces presented will be assigned and tasked as Unit Type
Codes (UTC)s.
A1.1.1.3. Communications capabilities will be phased in gradually depending on mission
requirements, available capabilities and airlift. The phases of Joint Task Force (JTF) operations,
as per Joint Pub 6-0, are pre-deployment, deployment, employment, sustainment, and
transition/redeployment. The duration of each phase is mission-dependent. This memorandum
focuses on the employment phase of Combat Communications.
A1.1.1.4. Employment. In this phase, the Combat Communications units arrive in the area of
responsibility (AOR) incrementally or simultaneously to begin establishing services. A modular
buildup of Combat Communications services provides increasing capability to the warfighter.
The deployment/employment period normally lasts 120-180 days. During this phase Combat
Communications units focus work to increase the capability and redundancy of the deployed site.
Once robust and reliable communications are established, traditional communications squadrons
may be tasked to provide sustainment, allowing the deployable communications units’ personnel
to redeploy.
A1.1.1.5. Service Activation Priorities. Initial command and control (C2) communications
services (e.g. CFAK), will be available, if tasked, within the first two hours of the Combat
Communications unit’s arrival at a deployed location. Additionally, Theater Deployable
Communications (TDC) core capabilities (e.g. TDC Core Capability, 6KTFB) will be available
within 48 hours of arrival with the base commander prioritizing the distribution of services.
A1.1.1.6. Combat Communications units are tasked to provide the communications
infrastructure and will not provide end end-user devices e.g. computers, secure telephone
instruments, command and control hardware, and land mobile radio’s (LMRs). Users will
supply their own devices and will have current hard copy Information Assurance (IA)
certification. Additionally, users of Combat Communications networks may require a re-format
or re-image of their systems prior to connecting to the network to ensure the standard desktop
client (SDC) or other theater defined compliancy level. Finally, users must provide unique
software and valid accreditation paperwork needed for their mission set.
A1.1.1.7. Other supported missions (e.g., support to ASOC, CRC and AOCs) as well as other
long haul communications transmission systems are not in the scope of this GM and may be
addressed in future updates.
A1.1.2. Waiver Authority. Unless otherwise noted, the waiver authority for this instruction is
HQ AFSPC/A3.
A1.2. Open the Air Base (AB). This force module provides the capabilities to open an AB.
These forces will arrive first to survey/assess the site and then relay specific requirements for
follow-on forces. There are no common user Cyber Support/Service capabilities in this module.
Advanced Echelon (ADVON) provides initial on-site planning for Combat Communications
bed-down. ADVON team size and composition is mission dependent. Under normal
circumstances employment of an ADVON team should precede arrival of follow-on forces.
A1.2.1. Setup & Activation. ADVON initial site planning timelines are dependent on the size of
the site and complexity of the environment.
A1.2.2. Reference Attachment 3.
A1.3. Command and Control. This module provides initial C2 in support of the ongoing base
buildup operations and in support of follow-on forces. This module is the basic building block
of expeditionary communications capability providing initial core services within 48 hours of
employment. Capabilities include satellite connectivity with a Defense Information Systems
Network (DISN) to extend Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet), Non-Secure
Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet), and Defense Switched Network (DSN) to a small
number of drops for user-provided instruments, providing connectivity for special circuits, Ultra-
High Frequency (UHF)/Very High Frequency (VHF) line of sight ground-to-air radio
communications, UHF/Demand Assigned Multiple Access (DAMA) satellite access, and initial
LMR infrastructure, and installation and maintenance of Giant Voice. Command emphasis on
deploying Engineering Installation (EI) personnel with the Combat Communications or
expeditionary communications personnel in this phase will facilitate future infrastructure
planning and help ensure an interface with existing host nation systems.
A1.3.1. Setup and Activation: Minimal initial C2 capability (NIPR/SIPR, DSN only) can be
realized in two hours by CFAK. Within 48 hours, core capabilities will be provided through
6KTFB, resulting in a base Network Control Center Deployed (NCC-D) supporting 50-150 users
in a café environment (utilizing user provided instruments). This initial capability includes
power production, satellite communications and NIPR/SIPR, VoIP, LMR and information
assurance capability.
A1.3.2. Reference: Attachment 3 and Attachment 7 for specific Unit Type Code (UTC)
descriptions.
A1.4. Establish the AB. This module contains limited forces to bring the base to an initial
operating capability. Expeditionary cyberspace forces in this module provide deployable air
traffic control and landing systems for en route and terminal control of assigned aircraft,
expansion of the base information infrastructure to support approximately 700 users, limited
workgroup management services for base users, and an expeditionary communications squadron
leadership structure. At this point, expeditionary cyberspace UTCs will provide additional SIPR,
NIPR and telephone access points and special circuits as required. Including those from the
earlier C2 module, a limited number of telephone instruments and LMRs are available for users.
E&I management and engineering UTCs are employed in this phase to begin the transition to
permanent infrastructure. Forces are dependent on the host unit for movement of equipment
(including one five-ton truck for movement of the ATC Radar), refueling, feeding, force
protection, billeting, and other support.
A1.4.1. Setup and Activation Time. The UTC in this phase provides bridging for 6KTFB to
6KTFD and consists of switches, routers, Global Broadcast System (GBS), and transmission
media necessary to compliment 6KTFD to expand the sites services. This UTC also consists of
legacy equipment e.g. Promina, and Large Voice Module (LVM) to support other possible TDC
mission requirements. It also provides expanded LMR capabilities and additional manning to
sustain continuous 24 hour support. Simultaneous setup of 6KTFC and an initial 6KTFD is
required to provide expansion and distribution of services within 24 hours. The 24 hour
expansion timeline builds upon the 6KTFB 48 hour activation time for a total of 72 hours.
A1.4.2. Mission Capable (MISCAP) Dependencies. 6KTFC is dependent on 6KTFBs
infrastructure to interface legacy equipment to the network (e.g., servers and SATCOM). A
separate 6KTFD must be tasked with 6KTFC to provide site expansion capability. Civil
engineering support must be tasked separately to support this TDC expansion UTC (e.g.,
6KLS1).
A1.5. Operate the AB. This module contains mission support forces needed to achieve full
operational capability. Expeditionary cyber forces in this module provide wing information
management and staff support, engineering and installation capability, and expansion of the base
information infrastructure to support approximately 3,000 users. At this point, expeditionary
cyber UTCs will provide a greater number of SIPR, NIPR, telephone access points, and special
circuits as required. These forces are dependent on the host unit for movement of equipment,
refueling, feeding, force protection, billeting, and other support. Expeditionary cyber UTCs in
this module provide an expeditionary network operations package that expands upon 6KTFB. It
is designed to provide connectivity for voice and data at extended sites up to 16 kilometers from
the NCC-D at expeditionary AB. It also provides expanded secure and non-secure voice and
data services in increments of 600 users at 3:1 users to services ratio. Additionally, the UTC
expands LMR capabilities by 20 LMRs.
A1.5.1. Setup and Activation Time. Simultaneous setup of 6KTFC and an initial 6KTFD is
required to provide expansion/distribution of services within 24 hours. The 24 hour expansion
timeline builds upon the 6KTFB 48 hour activation time for a total of 72 hours. Setup for each
additional 6KTFD is 24 hours.
A1.5.2. MISCAP Dependencies. SATCOM transmission system and Civil Engineer UTCs
support 6KTFB. 6KTFD must be utilized in conjunction with 6KTFB and 6KTFC. Specify
UTC 6KTFE with initial 6KTFD required. Specify subsequent 6KTFE with every third 6KTFD
required.
A1.6. Other Capabilities. The above modules do not incorporate all expeditionary cyber
operations capabilities required to operate and sustain an air base in all cases. Several additional
items are required, such as theater-level switching systems, terrestrial and troposphere
communications systems, required E&I capabilities, above-wing-level cyber services, and
sustainment forces.
A1.7. Changes. Change authority for this GM resides with HQ AFSPC/A3I.
A1.7.1. Waivers. Due to unique local situations, units may request a waiver to the requirements
of this instruction. HQ AFSPC/A6 is the waiver authority for this GM unless specifically stated
otherwise.
A1.7.1.1. Forward all waiver requests via official memorandum through 24 AF/OV to HQ
AFSPC/A6 describing the specific requirement creating the problem and explaining why a
waiver is needed.
A1.7.1.2. If approved, waivers remain in effect for the life of the GM, unless HQ AFSPC/A6
specifies a shorter period of time, cancels in writing, or issues a change altering the basis for the
waiver.
A1.7.2. Clarifications. Process requests for clarification via memorandum through 24 AF to HQ
AFSPC/A6 describing in sufficient detail the issue requiring clarification. The NAF will provide
a 24 AF position prior to forwarding to HQ AFSPC/A3T, 150 Vandenberg St., Ste 1105,
Peterson AFB CO, 80914- 4240 or a3i.wf@afspc.af.mil. Provide information copies to HQ
AFSPC/IGIOS, 125 East Ent Ave, Peterson AFB CO 80914-1281.
A1.7.3. Electronic Data Storage. Units may use electronic database files for record keeping,
trend analysis, printing of standard forms, etc. Groups will establish standards for archiving and
inspection of electronic files. Units not using an electronic database will maintain hard-copy
records as directed in this GM.
                                           Attachment 2

    COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS COMMAND AND CONTROL EMPLOYMENT
                          STANDARDS

A2.1. General. Combat Communications plays a pivotal role in supporting the full range of
military operations in the AF and Joint environments. This role includes supporting
communications requirements as well as linking C2 reach back at and above the tactical level for
a variety of AF and Joint missions. One definition of C2 is “the process of military commanders
identifying, prioritizing, and achieving strategic and tactical objectives by exercising authority
and direction over human and material resources.” C2 is not one individual, but a hierarchy of
individuals with unique responsibilities that operate under the centralized control of the
Commander or designated representative. Each individual in this hierarchy has a level of
authority, but ultimate control and responsibility lies with the Commander. During
contingencies the Communications Focal Point (CFP) serves as the C2 function for the deployed
Combat Communications unit. During an incident the Unit Control Center (UCC) is activated
within the CFP to perform Emergency Support Functions (ESF). It is important to make the
distinction between the Senior Commander (Group/Wing Commander, joint/contingency
commander or senior-most equivalent, hereafter referred to as the SCC) and the Combat
Communications Squadron Commander (the senior ranking combat communicator, hereafter
referred to as the CBCS/CC). Finally, the term Expeditionary Communications Squadron (ECS)
is used to refer to the CBCS/CCs complement of Combat Communications assets assigned to
him/her (despite the size, with respect to the fact that the site could be a very small contingency
operation up to supporting a full AEW with ECS support).
A2.2. Primary Objectives. This guidance is intended to establish a Combat Communications
baseline and provide each unit the flexibility to utilize their personnel differently, as long as the
mission requirements are being met and the unit complies with all applicable directives. This
guidance applies to HQ AFSPC and all HQ AFSPC owned and gained Combat Communications
units. This guidance applies to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) units with combat communications responsibilities.
A2.3. Roles and Responsibilities.
A2.3.1. Command Element. The Command Element is responsible for overall management of
the deployed unit or ECS. They manage all resources, to include personnel, equipment, and
supplies. It may be deployed aligned under the 6KMJ6 or 6KMJ7 UTCs. NOTE: Units have
the option to consider the Command Element to be part of the CFP while other units maintain it
as a distinct and separate function. Either way, their role is the same.
A2.3.1.1. Combat Communications Squadron Commander (CBCS/CC). The CBCS/CC directs
and controls the site, system, circuit and services activation and sustainment. The CBCS/CC
establishes priorities and monitors timelines to ensure service activation within required time
frames in accordance with Operation Orders (OPORD), Battle Staff Directives, Special
Instructions (SPINS), or other directives that establish communications requirements. At a
minimum, the CBCS/CC will:
A2.3.1.1.1. Support the SCC and Communications Tasking Order requirements through ETN to
the max extent possible.
A2.3.1.1.2. Ensure safety directives compliance and validate that an active unit safety program
is in place.
A2.3.1.1.3. Ensure Technical Orders (TO) compliance.
A2.1.1.1.4. Ensure Master Station Logs (MSL) are maintained by all work centers.
A2.3.1.1.5. Ensure shift change briefings are conducted, during which updated status is passed
to the oncoming shift.
A2.3.1.1.6. Ensure active Operations Security (OPSEC) and Communications Security
(COMSEC) programs are in place and comply with current directives.
A2.3.1.1.7. Provide an update briefing to the SCC as required. This briefing will address the
following, but is not limited to: personnel and facilities, communication service availabilities,
capabilities, limitations, timelines, system restoral plan, wing communications support
requirements and planned footprint, user service information (i.e. phone book, user info package,
LMR operations and user guide, etc) and recommending policies and guidance (i.e. morale calls,
web use, etc).
A2.3.1.1.8. Review the Communications Status (COMSTAT) and Situation Report (SITREP)
before submission to Higher Headquarters (HHQ) and ensure these reports are transmitted to
HHQ within the required time constraints.
A2.3.1.1.9. The CBCS/CC is not the "Comply & Connect" authority. The CBCS/CC must
validate ATOs and SPINs before allowing users, workstations, applications, (et al.) on the
deployed network.
A2.3.1.2. Superintendent (Supt). If part of the Command Element, the Supt is responsible for
overall unit management and works with the CBCS/CC to deliver the required operational
capabilities while limiting operational interruptions.
A2.3.1.3. Communications Focal Point (CFP). During periods of contingency tasking
(simulated or actual), the CFP function assumes increased responsibility for C2 and the
coordination effort with wing battle staff or other functions. Since the CFP collects data and
tracks status of resources and services, it is very important to the CBCS/CC and SCC’s ability to
manage the C2 function. The CFP may be formed from a cross-section of AFSCs in deployed
UTCs and augmented by Client Services Technicians (CST) in the 6K0S0 UTC. Duties
conducted by personnel assigned to the CFP should follow guidance provided by T.O. 00-33A-
1001, Chapter 3.
A2.3.1.4. Material Control. The material control individual is part of the Command Element
and is typically deployed as part of the 6KMJ6 UTC.
A2.3.1.4.1. Important and Recurring Duties:
A2.3.1.4.1.1. Shift Change: Provide a “shift change” briefing to counterparts during shift
changeover highlighting major areas of importance. At a minimum, brief the CBCS/CC after
shift change on the following:
A2.3.1.4.1.1.1. Current status of all MICAP supply orders.
A2.3.1.4.1.1.2. Summary of items pulled from Mobility Readiness Spares Package (MRSP) kits
during the previous shift.
A2.3.1.4.1.1.3. Update on orders for equipment to replace previously pulled MRSP items.
A2.3.1.4.1.1.4. Ensure facilities adequately control and protect all supply assets, including
positioning the MRSP on dunnage.
A2.3.1.4.1.1.5. Perform supply liaison duties to support the ECS mission.
A2.3.1.4.1.1.6. Process and track all supply requests. Update the open job status board and brief
the CBCS/CC and UCC Chief on back order status.
A2.3.1.4.1.1.7. Maintain copy of UCC’s packing and load lists for all UTCs/facilities.
A2.3.2. UCC. The UCC is activated, as directed by the SCC or Emergency Operations Center
(EOC), in response to an incident or emergency (e.g. enemy attack). All functions related to the
CFP will continue, as well as the new functions required by the UCC.
A2.3.2.1. UCC Chief Responsibilities:
A2.3.2.1.1. Important and Recurring Duties:
A2.3.2.1.1.1. Shift Change: Provide a “shift change” briefing to counterparts during shift
changeover highlighting major areas of importance. At a minimum, brief the CBCS/CC during
shift change on the following:
A2.3.2.1.1.1.1. Status of all personnel.
A2.3.2.1.1.1.2. AF Form 4006 personnel replacement status.
A2.3.2.1.1.1.3. Items submitted to HHQ during the previous shift.
A2.3.2.1.1.1.4. Responses received from HHQ during the previous shift.
A2.3.2.1.1.1.5. Items still pending at HHQ and when they were originally submitted.
A2.3.2.1.2. Execute actions as specified in the Facility Survival Checklist for the AOR to which
the unit is deployed.
A2.3.2.1.3. As directed, assist CBCS/CC by completing a Battle Damage Assessment (BDA) of
communications and information services.
A2.3.2.1.4. Recommend courses of action to repair/recover services from attack damage.
A2.3.2.1.5. In coordination with the Emergency Management (EM) Representative, determine
appropriate response to situations and direct facility survival checklist execution.
A2.3.2.1.6. Ensure facilities are notified of THREATCON/Force Protection Condition
(FPCON)/Information Condition (INFOCON) changes.
A2.3.2.1.7. Prepare the CBCS/CC for the SCC’s Senior Staff meeting. Ensure he/she has
accurate information, documents, charts, etc (this generally involves ensuring the COMSTAT
and SITREP are up-to-date and accurate).
A2.3.2.1.8. Ensure all required host nation support memos are submitted on time and in the
proper format.
A2.3.2.1.9. Ensure emergency phone numbers are posted in each facility.
A1.3.2.1.10. Maintain roster and status of all personnel. Complete casualty replacement letters
and/or AF Form 4006s immediately upon notification of injury to assigned personnel.
A2.3.3. Emergency Management. The EM function is primarily responsible for keeping the
Commander and UCC Chief informed during an emergency or incident. This function also
manages the deployment of Post Attack Response (PAR) teams after an attack.
A2.3.3.1. Important and Recurring Duties.
A2.3.3.1.1. Shift Change: Provide a “shift change” briefing to counterparts during shift
changeover highlighting major areas of importance. At a minimum, brief the CBCS/CC after
shift change on the following:
A2.3.3.1.1.1. Current ALARM condition.
A2.3.3.1.1.2. Current MOPP condition.
A2.3.3.1.1.3. Current FPCON level.
A2.3.3.1.1.4. Current INFOCON.
A2.3.3.1.1.5. Current Sign/Countersign and Duress word.
A2.3.3.1.1.6. Intelligence updates received over the past 12 hours that may impact force
protection.
A2.3.3.1.1.7. Confirm number of personnel on site between ECP and on-shift schedule from
Facility Chiefs.
A2.3.3.1.2. Responsible for all emergency management and security measures.
A2.3.3.1.3. Ensure critical weather information is disseminated to the deployed facilities.
A2.3.3.1.4. Obtain the appropriate number of EM kits (from host base, before deployment), one
EM kit for each facility/tent.
A2.3.3.1.4.1. Distribute EM kits to each facility prior to deployment or immediately upon
arrival.
A2.3.3.1.5. Document MSL with status updates.
A1.3.3.1.6. Coordinate with the appropriate agencies to obtain a site layout map; annotate with
appropriate EM and security information.
A2.3.3.1.7. Assign responsibility to key UCC personnel for contacting UTC personnel; establish
a process to disseminate information to all unit personnel.
A2.3.3.1.8. Provide arriving personnel with the following information:
A2.3.3.1.8.1. Initial Security Briefing.
A2.3.3.1.8.2. Results of Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) sweep.
A2.3.3.1.8.3. Current ALARM, MOPP, FPCON, INFOCON.
A2.3.3.1.8.4. Sign/Countersign will be distributed through Facility Chiefs.
A2.3.3.1.8.5. Casualty collection point.
A2.3.3.1.8.6. Entry Control Point (ECP)/Perimeter procedures.
A2.3.3.1.8.7. Real-world emergency procedures.
A2.3.3.1.9. Ensure safety information is available and posted.
A2.3.3.1.10. Ensure emergency phone numbers are posted in each facility.
A2.3.3.1.11. Ensure every facility has a First-Aid kit.
A2.3.4. Other Duty Positions. Other important positions the CBCS/CC and UCC Chief need to
understand, include:
A2.3.4.1. First Sergeant (may be an authorized position; if not, assign Additional Duty First
Sergeant duties to a SNCO on a case-by-case basis).
A2.3.4.2. Unit Emergency Operation Center (EOC) representatives.
A2.3.4.3. Safety Non-Commissioned Officer (NCO).
A2.3.4.4. Security Manager.
A2.3.4.5. Telephone Control Officer (TCO).
A2.3.4.6. Secure Voice Responsible Officer (SVRO).
A2.3.4.7. Communications Security (COMSEC) Responsible Officer (CRO).
A2.3.4.8. Weapons custodians/couriers, as applicable (primary and alternate, if bulk shipping).
A2.3.4.9. Emission Security (EMSEC) NCO.
A2.3.4.10. Equipment custodians for Equipment Authorization Inventory Data (EAID) and
Information Technology (IT) assets (deployed).
A2.3.4.11. Information Assurance Officer.
A2.3.4.12. Hazardous cargo certifiers.
A2.3.4.13. Records Custodian(s).
A2.3.4.14. Frequency Manager POC.
A2.3.4.15 Vehicle Control officer (VCO)
A2.3.4.16 Technical Order Distribution Officer TO/DO
A2.3.5. Personnel Accountability.
A2.3.5.1. CFP/UCC will maintain accountability of all unit personnel. Each facility will be
responsible for up-channeling their personnel numbers for accountability to the CFP/UCC.
A2.3.6. Combat Communications UCC Checklists. Combat Communications checklists are
used primarily by the UCC and Facility Chiefs when performing command and control
functions. Combat Communications checklists are not directive. When there are conflicts
between Combat Communications checklist and AFIs, other Air Force publications, or DoD
publications, the highest-level guidance takes precedence. Combat Communications checklists
provide baseline recommended Tactics, Techniques and Procedures for successful initial
deployment and/or deployed operations. The CBCS/CC retains the authority to modify
implementation of these checklists, when necessary, to account for factors outside the scope of
this GM.
A2.4. Concept Release Policy. Release of a complete or partial concept document is governed
by AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information. Multi-command, multi-
service and Joint concept document initiatives require concurrence of all users before such
documents may be released. Draft documents released prior to AFSPC approval must clearly
state they do not necessarily reflect AFSPC policy or approval and are subject to change.
                                          Attachment 3

      ADVON/ EXPEDITIONARY ENGINEERING EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS

A3.1. General. The Advanced Echelon (ADVON) and Combat Communications Engineering
teams are available to the commander for forward deployment to assess and engineer deployed
cyber operations networks. Team composition and size is mission dependent. They propose
solutions to actual or potential technical problems that adversely affect the quality of cyber
operations, and are designed to provide the systems expertise that will complement, not replace,
traditional planning, operations, and maintenance functions. The ADVON emphasis is on a
systems approach to improve planning, engineering, maintenance, and operational technical
procedures. To provide the best possible engineering support during the deployed cyber
operations systems life cycle, these personnel must possess a high degree of cyber operations
systems expertise. This expertise includes extensive knowledge of cyber operations
fundamentals, equipment capabilities and limitations, and systems testing. Furthermore, these
personnel must also possess a general knowledge of logistical life support (e.g., airflow,
billeting, cots, food, water) so they can identify initial and follow on needs in various
environments.
A3.2. Primary Objectives. The primary objectives of the ADVON and Combat
Communications Engineering teams are to engineer and prepare for initial Combat
Communications bed-down and extension of services per user requirements. This guidance
applies to HQ AFSPC and all HQ AFSPC owned and gained combat communications units.
This guidance applies to ANG and AFRC units with combat communications responsibilities.
A3.3. Roles and Responsibilities.
A3.3.1. ADVON/Combat Communications Engineer. The primary role of the ADVON team
and Combat Communications Engineer is to assist the site commander in the management and
bed-down of a combat communications unit while also providing technical planning and
engineering solutions for the employment of expeditionary communications systems.
A3.3.1.1. Liaise with lead agency to confirm site location, coordinate general bed-down support
requirements (i.e. logistics for receiving equipment, forklift support, additional airflow, etc) and
host nation support requirements
A3.3.1.2. Identify, investigate and resolve interface, equipment and site limitations
A3.3.1.3. Determine site layout and validate mission requirements
A3.3.1.4. Provide focal point for dissemination of technical information to all interested
agencies
A3.3.1.5. Provide technical guidance and assistance to lateral units when necessary
A3.3.1.6. Act as focal point to ensure engineering and operational maintenance requirements are
met
A3.3.1.7. Actively participate in the interchange of technical information with Defense
Information Systems Agency (DISA), Standardized Tactical Entry Point (STEP) sites and theater
engineer. Determine who submits Satellite Access Requests (SAR), Gateway Access Requests
(GAR) and frequency requests.
A3.3.1.8. Conduct site surveys and produce appropriate metrics (e.g., measurements and
calculations) to ensure equipment and site layouts will satisfy the tasking requirements.
A3.3.1.9. Verify user requirements:
A3.3.1.9.1. Radio.
A3.3.1.9.2. Voice (Secure/Non-secure).
A3.3.1.9.3. Data (Secure/Non-secure).
A3.3.1.9.4. Special services (GBS, GV, JWICS, etc).
A3.3.1.9.5. Validate requirements.
A3.4. Pre-deployment Considerations.
A3.4.1. Gather Critical Information.
A3.4.1.1. Identify primary and alternate site locations by coordinating with site agencies and
obtain maps and imagery of possible site locations and surrounding area.
A3.4.1.2. Determine if existing site survey or other research data is available for projected sites.
A3.4.1.3. Research availability of commercial or host nation communications equipment and
infrastructure.
A3.4.1.4. Locate existing power systems, grounding systems and underground obstacles.
A3.4.1.5. Determine site changes due to environmental impact.
A3.4.1.6. Identify Terminal Instrument Procedures (TERPS) personnel who may need to
conduct an airspace survey. Ensure airspace criteria are met. Ensure Air Traffic Control
personnel record the position of any TERPS obstructions and prepare waivers for areas not in
compliance with TERPS.
A3.4.1.7. Begin coordination with appropriate spectrum managers.
A3.4.1.8. Ensure Radiation Hazard (RADHAZ) zone requirements are met.
A3.4.1.9. Ensure site terrain has sufficient drainage. If not, take precautions to reduce impact of
potential flooding.
A3.4.2. Develop a Technical Data Package for the Mission. Include the following items if they
are available and tailor the contents to sufficiently support the engineering effort:
A3.4.2.1. Site coordinates/map of area and, if available, photos of the area.
A3.4.2.2. Azimuth and takeoff angles for SATCOM Links and, once available, Satellite Access
Authorization (SAA) and Gateway Access Authorization (GAA).
A3.4.2.3. Path Profiles, azimuths, elevations and distances for wideband and tropospheric scatter
links.
A3.4.2.4. Site layout map.
A3.4.2.5. Ground resistance measurements and grounding log to be completed during
employment.
A3.4.2.6. Bubble charts and system diagrams for the overall connectivity, cut-sheets, voice and
network diagrams, timing charts, multiplexer diagrams and emergency restoral plans if available
from AOR/SYSCON.
A3.4.2.7. Ensure domain is registered through the Air Force Network Integration Center
(AFNIC) and the 624th Operations Center.
A3.4.2.8. Circuit listings, circuit channelization and circuit layout records if available from
AOR/SYSCON.
A3.4.2.9. Determine antenna type used for each radio link.
A3.4.2.10. Contact AEW Civil Engineers to assess long term site power requirements (i.e.
power pooling, converting to commercial power)
A3.4.2.11. Secure necessary permits: ensure a digging permit, if required, was issued (cannot be
accomplished until location of equipment is determined)
A3.4.3. Prepare an Engineering Support Kit. Kit should contain equipment that might be
needed to support the Site Verification Team (SVT). A detailed list of equipment is located in
the Logistics Detail for the appropriate UTCs (currently 6KTFK and 6KNZ8).
A3.4.4. Establish a SVT. Identify SVT members and tailor, as required, to include Airfield
Operations personnel when applicable. Notional members and their AFSCs are identified in the
appropriate UTC manpower details (currently 6KTFK and 6KNZ8).
A3.4.5. Setup Transportation. Verify that transportation was requested for the site survey team
and follow-on personnel.
A3.5. Communications Systems Engineering. Accommodating user requirements requires
sound communications systems engineering to enable proper communications planning and
engineering. System engineering is an integration of the following basic concepts.
A3.5.1. Engineering Support Function. This concept places communication officers, graduate
electrical engineers and communication technicians in the Air Communications Squadrons
(ACOMS) and Combat Communications units to directly support deployments. These personnel
should:
A3.5.1.1. Perform troubleshooting and maintenance necessary to ensure equipment is operating
in optimum condition.
A3.5.1.2. Identify interface and equipment limitations and report them to the PMO.
A3.5.1.3. Provide a sound technical base for the unit training programs.
A3.5.1.4. Provide a focal point or process for the dissemination of technical information.
A3.5.1.5. Train and prepare engineers for world-wide deployment.
A3.5.1.6. Assist engineers from Combat Communications mission squadrons, Air Force Forces
(AFFOR) and HQ AFSPC planners with technical issues.
A3.5.2. System Approach. The communicator should not consider the performance of
individual facilities in the system without viewing the impact in user-to-user terms. While
measurement of facility or even link performance is important, the total system performance is
the overriding factor.
A3.5.3. The Deployed System Operational Life Cycle. This cycle consists of planning,
engineering, equipment readiness, deployment/employment and post-deployment.
A3.5.3.1. Planning Phase. This phase consists of the initial planning required to support the
deployed mission, including the selection of feasible communications sites, sizing the
requirement, selection of equipment and consideration of interface criteria. In this phase,
planners must have an appreciation of the capabilities and limitations of available
communications equipment, especially transmission and switching equipment. They should
understand such issues as the effect terrain may have on take-off angles and transmission quality,
as well as inputs necessary to prepare a database to support a telephone system. It is important to
carefully match communications equipment to the total mission requirement to ensure the
equipment selected will provide the quality and quantity of service required. Consideration of
the actual deployment/employment phase, including operating standards, is essential.
A3.5.3.2. Engineering Phase. This phase consists of the detailed technical actions required to
ensure the employment of a quality communications system. It includes site surveys, path
profiles, wideband path calculations, wideband and satellite multiplexing schemes, base data and
voice services preparation and Predicted Path Reliability (PPR) for transmission links. This
phase also includes circuit engineering (interfacing needed for switching and terminal
equipment), Internet Protocol (IP) addressing and subnet masking schemes, router and hub
layout, client and server farms, system channelization, technical control configuration,
completion of Circuit Layout Records (CLR), crew assignment sheets and cable cut sheets.
Either technicians or engineers may accomplish the above actions. A central source will prepare,
control and disseminate the network planning and multiplex schemes and oversee preparation
and dissemination of crew assignment sheets. An engineer, if available, should conduct an
overall assessment of the engineering results.
A3.5.3.3. Equipment Readiness Phase. Maintenance and logistic actions are necessary to ensure
all equipment is capable of optimum operation and is logistically supportable before deployment.
This phase applies equally to support equipment as well as communications equipment.
Equipment readiness tests, criteria and standards in applicable Technical Orders (TO),
commercial manuals, or Communications-Electronics Maintenance Instructions (CEMIs) are
used to determine the condition of deployable equipment.
A3.5.3.4. Deployment/Employment Phase. This phase consists of the actual deployment,
installation, checkout, operational acceptance and operation of the communications system.
Immediately upon installation, maintenance personnel should perform maintenance checks to
ensure the equipment still meets TO/commercial manual specifications.
A3.5.3.5. Post-Deployment Phase. In this phase, events taking place during all other phases are
documented, analyzed and corrective actions initiated. At the end of the exercise/contingency, a
report should identify staff action that will improve methods and procedures used in all other
phases of the cycle. Identify training deficiencies and adjust training programs accordingly.
A3.5.4. Phase Explanation. These phases are not necessarily chronologically distinct. The first
three phases are normally pre-deployment activities; however, they may occur simultaneously
with the actual deployment. For instance, the first echelon could be deployed from a unit while
follow-on echelons are being planned. This cycle includes consideration of many factors that
have an effect on the successful completion of the communication unit's mission. Base the
phased approach on the philosophy that planning, engineering and equipment readiness phases
precede the deployment/employment phase. With deployed equipment, it's usually too late to
extensively plan the employment, engineer the Radio Frequency (RF) links and the
interfaces/protocols to subsystems and ensure that the equipment is operating in optimum
condition. Accomplish these steps before deployment. Take action to ensure the system
maintains optimum performance after employing a system. Finally, after mission completion,
take action to ensure that what was learned in the previous four phases is applied to improving
communications system performance in future deployments. The engineering function needs to
be included in deployment planning and engineering phases to ensure a comprehensive effort has
been made to design a system that meets mission requirements.
A3.6. Planning and Engineering Phases. The main objectives of the planning and engineering
phases are to plan, engineer, and define actions required to successfully support the user. The
combat communications unit has limited assets available to provide communications support.
These assets vary in configuration, capability, and interface compatibility.
A3.6.1. Pre-deployment Planning. The pre-deployment planning and designing effort is labor-
intensive, consisting of a number of steps, but not limited to:
A3.6.1.1. Define mission requirements.
A3.6.1.2. Formulate a tentative general system outline.
A3.6.1.3. Coordinate with AOR SYSCON to develop switched network databases (voice and
data) to include Internet Protocol/Autonomous System Numbers (IP/ASNs), subnet masking and
protocols for routers, phone book for switched lines and nodal assignment for Promina’s.
A3.6.1.4. Coordinate with AOR SYSCON to develop multiplexing plan and configuration
sheets for assigned Legacy and Theater Deployable Communications/Integrated
Communications Access Package (TDC/ICAP) systems.
A3.6.1.5. Desktop map survey.
A3.6.1.6. Site survey.
A3.6.1.7. Path predictions.
A3.6.1.8. System/node timing plan (need primary and alternate sources assigned).
A3.6.1.9. Final site, equipment and route (propagation path) selections.
A3.6.1.10. Preparation of final system layout documentation.
A3.6.1.11. Engineering personnel should check and verify computations, database and
communication architecture, accomplished and installed by various AFFOR planning and
operations functions. By virtue of their system-level viewpoint, these personnel are in a position
to discover inconsistencies in the overall system design not readily apparent to the technician
working on individual elements of the system. By accomplishing specific critical system checks
during the planning and engineering phases, the engineer/technician can discover and resolve
problems which might become critical if left undetected until deployment.
A3.6.2. Definition of Mission Requirements (chain of events). AFI 10-414, Requesting and
Employing Combat Communications Resources in Peacetime, governs requests for AFSPC
combat communications support. Air Force units can request AFSPC Combat Communications
support for interim/emergency mission support requirements IAW AFI 10-414. Once the
requirement for Combat Communications support is identified, the planning function must
interpret the tasking to determine the specific number of personnel to be deployed, the types of
equipment required and circuit configurations needed. These initial steps may require
participation in an exercise planning conference and translate the basic communications need
into a realistic and feasible definition of the system requirement.
A3.6.3. General System Plan:
A3.6.3.1. When mission requirements are analyzed and defined, a system plan meeting the
communications user needs is developed. Some considerations when establishing the plan are:
A3.6.3.1.1. Technical capabilities and limitations of available equipment.
A3.6.3.1.2. Frequency limitations.
A3.6.3.1.3. Real estate constraints.
A3.6.3.1.4. Logistical constraints.
A3.6.3.1.5. Traffic and interface requirements.
A3.6.3.2. The system plan in early stages of the planning phase is very simple and depicts all
known information in a system diagram. From the system plan and user requirements the
planner can design a preliminary system trunking plan. This plan provides a layout of system
channel requirements and terminal locations in line-diagram form. Develop a trunking plan from
the activities requirement for Digital Trunk Groups (DTGs), data links, etc. Using either the
total voice circuit or data rate requirements, determine potential traffic between various points to
estimate total trunk requirements.
A3.6.3.3. The next step in planning a communications system is to make a tentative selection of
the equipment, operating locations, and transmission paths. A communications system has four
major subsystems: terminal equipment, switch, transmission, and control. Circuits connecting
terminals traverse switches, control points, and various transmission media. Signal levels, noise
levels, Bit Error Rate (BER), interface requirements, circuit identification, and proper
documentation, as a circuit passes from one subsystem to another, become the basic technical
challenge encountered when designing a communications system.
A3.6.3.4. When practical, use satellite systems and fiber for the highest quality beyond line-of-
sight (LOS) transmission media. The major deciding factors are data rates required, distance
between facilities and terrain between these locations.
A3.6.3.5. When using LOS, make sure adequate path clearance is available.
A3.6.3.6. Consider “Tropospheric scatter” (aka. “troposcatter”) mode when neither LOS is
possible. When the troposcatter mode is predicted to have a significantly better Received Signal
Level (RSL), use it rather than the LOS or diffraction mode (consult technical manual for
ranges).
A3.6.4. Satellite System Planning. Many users share the same transponder on a satellite;
requiring each link be carefully configured in relation to the others. All terminals accessing the
transponder must be controlled, with respect to time of access, frequency, bandwidth and uplink
power, to ensure they do not interfere with each other. The communications planners should
refer to published Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) standard satellite access and
control procedures. For Ground Mobile Forces (GMF) planning, refer to US Army Information
Systems Command (USAISC) Operation and Control Procedures for the GMF SATCOM
System, volumes I and II. When leasing Satellite Communications (SATCOM) (e.g., Ku, Ka, or
C-Band) services, careful adherence to the vendor’s established procedures will produce the
most satisfactory results. For satellite access, send your SAR/GAR to the Regional Satellite
Support Center (RSSC) via MAJCOM channels at RSSC@macdill.af.mil. The RSSC will
provide the report format.
A3.6.5. Wideband System Planning. With the addition of digital communications equipment to
the Air Force inventory, factors such as BER, multipath delay spread and time availability of the
link must be considered when planning usable data rates over transmission paths. It is especially
important for multiple hops to plan for median RSL that provide sufficiently low noise. The
performance of the AN/TRC-170 radio, with its adaptive modem, typically improves as the delay
spread increases; its performance is a function of path loss and multipath delay spread. The
planning of a digital troposcatter radio transmission path requires estimates of both path loss and
delay spread. Computer software (USMC SPEED) is available to assist in the path analysis of a
TRC-170 link. Note: The TDC/ICAP systems use short-range microwave systems to monitor
signal RSL and 257 BER using front panel controls and LinkView software to monitor
Automatic Gain Control (AGC) levels.
A3.6.6. International Maritime Satellite (INMARSAT) and Broadband Global Area Network
(BGAN). Currently, AFSPC does not have reach back capability and requests should be
submitted per HQ ACC/A6OK guidance.
A3.6.7. Radio Frequency Requests. Include spectrum managers in the earliest stages of all
planning activities as lead-time is required to complete coordination through national frequency
management channels.
A3.6.8. Preliminary Site Selection/Desktop Study for Troposcatter Links:
A3.6.8.1. After establishing a general system outline, verify it by a thorough desktop map study
(careful analysis of maps that provide reliable topographic data will save time and effort in the
field). Use this study to identify tentative operating locations, verify proposed transmission
paths and select sites that offer the most promising technical and logistical advantage. Select one
or more alternate sites for each terminal or relay facility. Technical considerations should not
override logistical considerations. For example: a site on top of a mountain may be the best site
technically, but be unsupportable logistically. Make a tentative propagation prediction for each
wideband path from each of the prospective sites; the desktop analysis will help to further
narrow the selection of sites.
A3.6.9. Site Selection:
A3.6.9.1. The site selected for placement of deployable communications systems is of major
significance to the eventual operational performance of the deployed systems. Site selection may
be considered the starting point for all further system engineering actions in that topography, soil
characteristics, climatic factors, vegetation in the area and space limitation will affect both the
installation of the particular facility and the operating characteristics of the system. Four items
of primary importance in site selection are:
A3.6.9.1.1. Size of the employment area to support all facilities of the deployed complex.
A3.6.9.1.2. The logistical supportability of each of the selected locations.
A3.6.9.1.3. The adaptability of each site to sustain reliable communications.
A3.6.9.1.4. The vulnerability and security of each location.
A3.6.9.2. These and other site factors, together with equipment selection, form the baseline from
which to design the communications system for a given deployment. For these reasons, final site
selection evolves through a reiterative process that involves preliminary site selection, field site
survey and detailed propagation analysis. During the initial planning stages, it is the task of the
system engineer to identify the preliminary sites and be able to evaluate their acceptability. In
some cases, identifying specific site locations before the planning stage makes the task of site
evaluation/selection far easier. Sometimes only general areas will be supplied. In either case,
preliminary site review provides significant benefits.
A3.6.9.3. Siting Technical Considerations. The following criteria for site location are applicable
to radio installations. They relate only to optimum technical performance of the equipment.
A3.6.9.3.1. The area must be free of hills, cliffs, buildings and other stationary obstructions that
would intrude into the LOS path in a sector requiring communications. Depressions, valleys and
similar geographic features are poor locations for radio sites because the surrounding high
ground screens large sections of operational air space. Operating the radio facility near steel
bridges, towers, overpasses, power lines or power substations can result in weak or distorted
signals in certain sectors.
A3.6.9.3.2. If possible, choose a site on a hilltop or other high ground. Flat ground with good
drainage at the site is desirable. If flat ground is not available, select a gentle sloping area to
avoid shadowing effects. If adequate coverage cannot be obtained because of antenna hazard
restrictions or local obstruction, choose an acceptable alternate site and remote the facility. Note:
Although a facility may begin operation on a relatively small scale, the development of
operations may require its expansion to a much larger facility. The possibility of expansion,
from the standpoint of space requirements, is one of the fundamental criteria in the selection and
acquisition of a proposed site. It is wise to select alternate sites in case the first selection is
unusable. Siting criteria for individual equipment can be found in applicable equipment T.O.s.
A3.6.10. Siting in Overseas Areas. In addition to the usual technical, logistical and
administrative criteria, siting of facilities in overseas areas presents special challenges.
Coordination with appropriate host nation agencies is necessary. Host nation approval is
required for frequency assignments to be authorized and should be coordinated with AOR
SYSCON. Design systems to be compatible with, or even to include, participation by coalition
partners. Ensure the observance of Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) and local policy.
Compliance includes coordination with the US base commander, MAJCOM, Military Assistance
Advisory Group (MAAG) or US Embassy for the foreign policy on matters such as taking
photographs (which may be necessary to complete the site survey), wearing the Air Force
uniform, trespassing, right of entry, negotiating landing rights, connection approval,
authorization to radiate and any other foreign policy or custom which, if violated, could
neutralize mission success or embarrass the US.
A3.6.11. Tentative Site Selection. The sum of the information collected, derived and predicted,
as outlined in the foregoing paragraphs for each proposed site, should be sufficient to compare
the capabilities and limitations of each site to permit ranking them in order of preference and
establish which will be subject to site survey.
A3.6.12. Site Selection. After identifying tentative sites and routes by desktop map study, field
trips or site surveys are needed to gain first hand information about the site and its likely impact
on the actual operational capabilities of the proposed facility or system to be setup.
A3.6.13. Siting Equipment. Technical equipment required by the siting party to accomplish the
siting mission may include: binoculars, cyclometer, Global Positioning System receiver, etc. A
more detailed list of items can be found in the engineering support kit tasked in the appropriate
UTC (currently 6KNZ8 Logistics Detail (LogDet)).
A3.6.14. Wideband Siting Data:
A3.6.14.1. Document transit information pertinent to the siting of wideband antennas. This data
is used during the detailed path propagation analysis to verify the data taken from the desktop
map study and to determine the blocking or screening angles of near-field obstacles not
identified on maps (such as buildings or trees). Haze and clouds may often obscure the distant
horizon, so take care to ensure the correct distant horizon is sited. Because light waves will
refract differently than radio waves, transit data for distant (greater than 3 miles) horizons may
be inaccurate. Use map study as the basis for any takeoff angle computations when the horizon
is greater than 3 miles away. Ignore obstacles such as wooden poles or isolated trees less than
one-half degree in azimuth.
A3.6.14.2. Take Theodolite and transit data from the proposed antenna location with data
recorded for a minimum of 10 degrees (5 degrees on each side of the center-path azimuth).
Reference the center path azimuth in the transit data to a natural or survey team placed marker
that will appear in the skyline photographs.
A3.6.14.3. Take panoramic skyline photographs or video recordings covering at least 25 degrees
on each side of the center-path azimuth.
A3.6.15. General Environmental Compatibility. Consider the suitability of the location; the
physical and electrical environment of the proposed location can affect the operation of the radio
facility. The factors to be considered include, but are not limited to:
A3.6.15.1. Metallic structures within LOS which may act as obstructions or reflectors.
A3.6.15.2. Dense forests close enough and tall enough to obstruct the real horizon and attenuate
the RF signals at low angles.
A3.6.15.3. Proximity to heavy traffic areas such that ignition noise could be troublesome.
A3.6.15.4. Proximity to industrial concentrations, or high-voltage power systems, which may
produce significant RF noise levels.
A3.6.15.5. Proximity to an active flightline/helicopter landing pad could cause interference
A3.6.15.6. Interference to, or from, other Communications-Electronics (C-E) equipment or
facilities within LOS, whether military or civilian. An open lattice structure tower may be
considered solid for screening calculations if the distance between connection points of the
members is two wavelengths or less at the frequency of operation of the radio facility. If the
distance between connection points is greater than this, ignore the structure as an obstruction.
A3.6.16. Vegetation and Landscaping. The reflecting properties of the ground, for vertical
polarization is considerably reduced by vegetation and low shrubs will reduce the random effects
of rough, rocky terrain on the vertical antenna pattern from optimum. This is a general leveling
effect and is preferred to bare or grass-covered rough ground. Clear vegetation between three
and eight feet within the immediate area of the antenna. Trees form an obstacle to UHF/SHF
signals. A single, large, nearby tree may cause a drop in signal strength of several dB.
Transmission measurements through a grove of trees 100-feet wide could cause losses of 20 to
30 dB for vertical polarization. If the grove is primarily deciduous, the seasonal changes will
significantly affect these losses; therefore, UHF/SHF antennas should be installed at such heights
that groves of trees do not obstruct the horizon. Computing or predicting the effects of
vegetation on antennas is often difficult, and expensive, due to the many variables involved.
Because such computations in deciduous situations may become invalid after a short interval, it
may be concluded that the rigorous analysis of antenna installation versus ground effects for
operational sites is impractical.
A3.6.17. Inter-Equipment/Facility Compatibility. Transmitting and receiving equipment in
close proximity can cause severe interference problems. Depending on frequency assignments,
radiated power, receiver sensitivity and selectivity, a close proximity can be anything from a few
feet to LOS. Investigate the equipment within radio LOS of the proposed facility for potential
compatibility. The types of incompatibilities, methods of analysis and critical levels used should
be the same as those used to determine compatibility within the site.
A3.6.18. Electromagnetic Compatibility Analysis Assistance. Work with local spectrum
managers regarding the radio equipment to be used and the tentative site layout to mitigate any
potential electromagnetic compatibility issues with the site.
A3.6.19. Ground Anchor Requirements. Note the soil composition and expected wind
conditions at the planned deployment site to plan appropriate ground anchoring of antennas or
other structures.
A3.6.20. Grounding. Refer to MIL-HDBK-419.
A3.6.21. Final Site Selection. When the information from the site surveys, detailed path
propagation analysis and other sources are available, finalize the system. Identify primary sites,
alternate sites, routing and specific items of equipment to be deployed.
A3.6.22. System Layout Documentation. When the final site, equipment and route selections
are determined, it is most important to document the entire system in sufficient detail for it to be
effectively engineered, constructed, operated and maintained.
A3.6.22.1. Use standard procedures for identifying circuits and for utilizing cable pairs.
A3.6.22.2. Prepare system layout charts showing the overall system. Site diagrams show the
detail of equipment placement at each location.
A3.6.22.3. Prepare detailed documentation identifying circuit layout, routing information, and
equipment configuration. Engineering personnel should make a practice of reviewing database
and overall networking schemes for any inaccuracies, which might preclude proper switch
functioning. Note: Those documents and procedures deemed appropriate for command wide
standardization are described in the following paragraphs.
A3.6.23. Standard Cable Pair Assignments. Preplanned distribution of signal cables (fiber optic,
CAT-5, 26-pair, coaxial, red colored = classified, blue colored = unclassified, etc.) is a
mandatory requirement.
A3.6.24. Site Layout Plans. Use site survey data to form a preliminary site layout plan. It will
indicate location of major communications or subscriber facilities, antenna configurations, cable
runs and other such data appropriate for the particular deployment site.
A3.6.25. Link and Circuit Identification. Refer to CJCSM 6231.04.
A3.6.26. System Layout Charts. Fully utilize the skills of technical control and maintenance
technicians when planning the channelization of a system. When information flow requirements
for a system are known, the planner will prepare a system layout chart. It depicts the entire
proposed system, number of channels available on each link, interface points, whether the trunk
is through-grouped or terminated and links to other services or agencies. Digital systems will
include the data rate, signal format (diphase, dipulse, etc.), multiplex signal format (MSF) and
coaxial cable run distances. From this chart, technical control and maintenance personnel will
prepare circuit layout information to route each circuit from end to end.
A3.6.27. Circuit Layout Records (CLR). CLRs (DD Form 1441, Circuit Data, or suitable
substitute) provide information on all circuits and systems to ensure comprehensive data is
available for planning/engineering processes and in the Technical Control Facility (TCF).
Initially, CLRs may be somewhat vague until network configurations become more stable. This
time frame varies, depending upon the situation, but is usually between 20 to 30 days.
A3.6.27.1. Each circuit should be documented in a circuit layout record. Include a copy in the
circuit history folder (normally established once configurations become stable). Circuits with the
same information, such as a group of trunks from one expeditionary communications switch to
another, need only one CLR with all circuit numbers listed on it. Include the completed CLR in
the information distributed to the TCF and any other activity acting in place of the TCF. During
the deployment, file a copy of the completed CLR for reference purposes. Retain the CLR for
six months after deactivating the circuit. The information required for each block of the form is:
A3.6.27.2. The circuit layout remarks section will show circuit routing and all pertinent data for
each leg of the circuit. A CLR provides a complete picture of the overall circuit configuration
when used with other information. Use automated products when possible.
A2.6.27.3. Initiate a Telecommunications Service Request (TSR) IAW DISA 310-130-1,
Submission of Telecommunications Service Requests, when using commercial facilities. Request
service from the demarcation point on the CLR and specify the signaling, levels, etc., at the
demarcation. It is necessary that all conditions be specified, in detail, because commercial
companies usually have no technical equipment data available. Use equipment nomenclature as
a reference for a terminal point, but not as a substitute for specific data.
A3.7. Deployment/Employment. During the deployment/employment phase, the expertise of
the engineering support function provides assistance activating the system and recommends
initial acceptance.
A3.8. Installation. The verification team prescribes the site positioning, or siting, with
concurrence of the site commander.
A3.8.1. Facilities. All major communications facilities, once deployed, are installed and
configured by maintenance work centers for initial acceptance by technical control.
A3.8.1.1. During initial setup and activation, engineering support personnel augment
maintenance/operations functions to provide specific technical expertise and advice. Note: They
should be used when requested by NCC, or the site engineer, to support troubleshooting efforts
of the various maintenance work centers when trouble appears to be caused by system-level,
rather than facility-level, problems.
A3.8.1.2. Installing an end item of communications, Deployable Air Traffic Control and
Landing Systems (DATCALS) IAW the appropriate T.O. specification completes the
installation.
A3.8.1.3. Accomplish grounding, power application and physical connection with interfacing
end items.
A3.8.1.4. Allow sufficient warm-up time to make accurate checks of basic parameters.
A3.8.1.5. Promptly report installation completion to the CFP, applicable operations personnel
and TCF (if interfaced with it).
A3.8.1.6. Operations personnel will verify the installation by making operational checks and,
where applicable, the TCF must perform subsystem operational acceptance checks. Note:
Engineering personnel are available to provide integration expertise, thereby assisting in
activation of the overall communications system.
A3.9. Initial Operational Acceptance. To ensure optimum facility performance, NCC accepts
the facility as operational after assuring the facility meets minimum performance standards for
the specific deployment equipment used.
A3.10. After Actions Reporting. Forward reports resulting from a specific tasking via AF
Form 209, Communications and Information Management After-Action Report, to the Unit
Commander, deploying unit Commander and any other units involved in the deployment.
Intermediate headquarters will staff each submission and provide their assessment and
recommended solution for each problem they want acted upon at higher levels.
A3.11. Concept Release Policy. Release of a complete or partial concept document is governed
by AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information. Multi-command, multi-
service and joint concept document initiatives require concurrence of all users before such
documents may be released. Draft documents released prior to AFSPC approval must clearly
state they do not necessarily reflect AFSPC policy or approval and are subject to change.
                                          Attachment 4

COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS CIVIL ENGINEERING SUPPORT EMPLOYMENT
                        STANDARDS

A4.1. Applicability. This guidance applies to HQ AFSPC and all HQ AFSPC owned and
gained combat communications units. This guidance applies to ANG and AFRC units with
combat communications responsibilities.
A4.2. Power Production and HVAC Support. Provide power and environmental control unit
support for tactical communications equipment and missions. Power production and heating,
ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) will support in accordance with all applicable T.O.s,
Air Force Instructions (AFI)s, and other approved publications.
A4.3. Responsibilities--Power Production Support. Units will provide serviceable
generators. Personnel will provide continuous reliable generator power to facilities, and
maintenance response to generator malfunctions. The following items will be utilized:
Generator Management, Technical Ability, Preventative Maintenance Inspections (PMI), and
Safety and Environmental Awareness.
A4.3.1. Generator Management. Units must demonstrate proper generator management in
accordance with the criteria outlined below, AFI 32-1062, Electric Power Plants and
Generators, AFI 32-1063, Electric Power Systems, AFI 32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices, and
applicable T.O.s. Generator Management includes Emergency Generators, Record Keeping,
Using Agency Training, Refueling, and Safety and Environmental Awareness.
A4.3.1.1. Emergency Generators. Units must identify and prioritize all generators for base
support. Units will utilize generator priority listings to ensure electrical power is restored to
critical base functions and facilities. All generators shall have detailed operating instructions
for the facilities served as well as accurate and detailed single-line diagrams near the generator
location. Generator assets shall be tracked at a minimum by: Priority, location/facility, serial or
identification number, type of generator (MEP 806, MEP 7, etc.), kilo-watt rating, fuel capacity,
date and time of last refuel, and status (on/off line, damaged, destroyed, etc).
A4.3.1.2. Record Keeping. All required T.O.s and records (i.e., AFCESA Form 487,
Emergency Generator Operating Log (Inspection Testing) or AFTO Form 244,
Industrial/Support Equipment Record; AF IMT 719, Historical Record-Diesel-Electric
Generator and System) shall be maintained at the deployed site. Units may reproduce AF IMT
719 and use copies in the field for the inspection. AFCESA Form 487 or AFTO Form 244 shall
be kept near the generator or inside the CE Support facility for the 24-hour period the form
covers. Any deviation must be approved by the commander.
A4.3.1.3. Using Agency Training. Using agency personnel (i.e., facility user, facility manager)
shall be trained to start/operate generators and restore or transfer power to facilities in the event
of a power failure. Site specific training will be conducted within 48 hours of S hour for 100%
of site personnel. Prior to starting a generator, the user must perform a pre-operational
inspection as per AFI 32-1062, Attachment 2. Training shall be documented using any
approved method.
A4.3.1.4. Refueling. Unit shall establish a detailed refuel plan for all generators and shall
execute the refuel plan during the inspection. The refuel plan shall include the order all
generators will be refueled and any contingency plan(s) in case the primary plan is not able to
be executed. Both primary and alternate refuel routes will be as direct as possible avoiding
delay in case of site evacuation or emergency situations.
A4.3.2. Technical Ability. Technicians must demonstrate the capability to operate and repair
generators, provide electrical support, establish electrical service when required, properly install
grounding systems, correctly size conductors for all circuits, and properly phase-in conductors
for facilities served. Technicians will demonstrate the use of T.O.s during all troubleshooting
and maintenance procedures.
A4.3.2.1. PMI. Preventative maintenance schedules shall be developed in accordance with
applicable T.O.s and manufacturer’s manuals. In addition, units will perform PMIs as required.
A4.3.2.2. Safety and Environmental Awareness. Units will safely operate and maintain
generators. The unit shall provide containment for petroleum spills and clean up kits for mobile
generators. Units will properly handle and dispose of petroleum waste. In addition, dry
chemical fire extinguishers shall be located within 25 feet of generators. Lock Out Tag Out
(LOTO) will be conducted according to applicable guidance and training documented on any
approved method. ESD kits will be available for use and training documented on any approved
method. Immediate use eye wash bottles will be available and reachable in 10 seconds or less
during site set-up. Transition to permanent eye wash systems providing 15 minutes of
continuous flow will occur after site set-up is complete and mission transforms to sustainment.
A4.3.3. HVAC/R Support. Units will provide continuous reliable Heating, Ventilation, Air
Conditioning and Refrigeration to facilities. HVAC Support includes Technical Ability, PMIs,
Recordkeeping, and Safety and Environmental Awareness.
A4.3.3.1. Technical Ability. Technicians must demonstrate ability to provide, operate,
troubleshoot, repair HVAC/R or heating units, and to properly charge refrigeration systems.
Technicians must have EPA certification cards on their persons. Units must also demonstrate
the ability to utilize backup equipment if required.
A4.3.3.2. PMI. Preventative maintenance schedules shall be developed and performed as
required by applicable guidance. Technicians will demonstrate use of T.O.s/commercial
manuals during all troubleshooting maintenance and set-up procedures.
A4.3.3.3. Record Keeping. All required T.O.s/commercial manuals and records shall be
maintained at the deployed site (i.e., historical records, scheduled maintenance list, work
orders).
A4.3.3.4. Safety and Environmental Awareness. Technicians must use Personal Protective
Equipment (PPE) and properly handle refrigerant and compressed gasses. Refrigerants may be
simulated in empty cylinders or recovery tanks for the purpose of inspections.
A4.4. Concept Release Policy. Release of a complete or partial concept document is governed
by AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information. Multi-command, multi-
service, and Joint concept document initiatives require concurrence of all users before such
documents may be released. Draft documents released prior to AFSPC approval must clearly
state they do not necessarily reflect AFSPC policy or approval and are subject to change.
                                          Attachment 5

      COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS TACTICAL GROUNDING EMPLOYMENT
                          STANDARDS

A5.1. General. Use this attachment in conjunction with T.O. 31-10-24, Installation Practices:
Communications Systems Grounding, Bonding, and Shielding, for grounding/fault protection,
signal reference, and lightning protection subsystems for mobile Communications-Electronic (C-
E) equipment at remote sites. This attachment also provides guidance for the construction and
installation of remote site central and/or facility (stand-alone) earth electrode subsystems. It also
assigns responsibilities for the installation, testing, inspection and maintenance of the remote site
earth electrode subsystems. References used to create this instruction include the National
Electric Code; National Fire Protection Association 780; MIL-HDBK-419A, Military Handbook
Grounding, Bonding, and Shielding for Electronic Equipment and Facilities; MIL-STD-188-124,
Military Standards for Grounding, Bonding, and Shielding; 29CFR§1910.268, Occupational
Safety and Health Standards, Telecommunications; and T.O. 31-10-24. It is not necessary to
modify equipment for the sole purpose of complying with this instruction or T.O. 31-10-24. This
guidance applies to HQ AFSPC and all HQ AFSPC owned and gained combat communications
units. This guidance applies to ANG and AFRC units with combat communications
responsibilities.
A5.2. Responsibilities.
A5.2.1. The deployed site commander, or designated representative will appoint a grounding
team consisting of one supervisor and at least two members to ensure compliance with T.O. 31-
10-24 and this GM for all deployed situations. When there are fewer than four people at a site,
the site personnel will be the grounding team with the ranking individual being the supervisor.
A5.2.2. The deployed site commander or designated representative will consider work hours,
materials, location, mission requirements etc. to determine the type of ground system required
for the situation and a realistic resistance value for the site central or facility ground(s).
A5.2.2.1. Grounding for a sustaining site should be designed with the anticipation of connecting
the site to a central ground grid developed by the site Civil Engineer. Example grounding
configurations are shown in Figures A5.1 through A5.5.
Figure A5.1. Communications Site with Central Ground.




Figure A5.2. Communications Squadron and TDC/ICAP with a central ground grid bus
and power pooled generator sets.
Figure A5.3. Air Control Squadron with a Central Ground.




   Figure A5.4. Air Control Squadron with Multiple Facility Grids.
    Figure A5.5. Air Control Squadron and TDC/ICAP With Central Ground and Bus.




A5.2.3. The Grounding Team Supervisor will:
A5.2.3.1. Ensure the grounding plan is included with the site layout.
A5.2.3.2. Ensure site central ground subsystem or facility ground subsystems are installed at the
deployed location prior to applying power to C-E equipment. Once site central ground
subsystem or facility ground subsystems are in place construct a three-five foot safety cordon
around the perimeter of the system. Central or facility ground grids will be identified prior to
energizing connected circuits with a sign indicating resistance value, date tested, site commander
or designated representatives signature as follows:
                  “CENTRAL/FACILITY GROUND - DO NOT DISCONNECT
                     WITHOUT APPROVAL OF THE COMMANDER.”
                            Date:   Value:      CC/Rep Signature Block:
A5.2.3.3. Establish a site grounding log. This log will show the site ground layout, ohm
value(s), equipment checked, date of readings and equipment added to or deleted from the site
central/facility ground system.
A5.2.3.4. Ensure signal cables (except for fiber optic cables) and power cables/ground wires in
parallel runs are separated by at least 18 inches. When signal cables must cross power cables or
ground wires, they should do so at a 90 degree angle.
A5.2.4. The Grounding Team will:
A5.2.4.1. Install and test the deployed site central or facility grounds (earth electrode subsystem)
as shown in site examples Attachment 4 through Attachment 8. The central/facility ground(s)
will be tested using a fall-of-potential ground tester (e.g., Vibroground Test Set, or other
equipment specifically designed to test ground resistance). The design objective is a resistance
of 10 ohms or less. If 10 ohms of resistance cannot be obtained, for one or more of the grids in a
multi-grid system, the grids should be interconnected with 1/0 American Wire Gauge (AWG)
ground wire. If 10 ohms still cannot be achieved, the grounding team chief will notify the site
commander, engineer, or designated representative. They will consider facts to determine a
solution for the situation and a realistic resistance value for the site central/facility ground(s).
Lowering the resistance can in some cases be aided by soil modification, e.g. adding rock salt or
magnesium sulfate and water in small trenches around the ground rods. Using grounds measured
above 25 ohms is not recommended and may present both safety and system noise issues.
A5.2.4.2. Ensure all equipment, as applicable, is properly connected to the site central or facility
ground system.
A5.3. General Procedures for Ground Installation.
A5.3.1. General Instructions.
A5.3.1.1. For the purposes of this instruction the term "single ground rod," as applied to its use
as the central/facility grounding point, is defined as a single or multi-sectioned ground rod with a
minimum diameter of 5/8 inch and a minimum length of nine (9) ft., to allow approximately 8 ft.
of the rod to come in contact with the earth. If the ground rods cannot be driven vertically due to
bedrock, the rods may be driven at an angle not to exceed 45 degrees. They may be buried in a
trench at least 2 ½ ft. deep with the upper end flush or below ground level, unless the wire
connection can be protected. In areas of extremely rocky soils, additional ground rods, in a star
formation, driven to lesser depth may be required. Individual equipment ground rods will follow
the T.O. requirements, if stated, or the above criteria for diameter, recommended length and
amount of earth contact. Ground Rod Grid configurations and specifications are shown in
Figure A5.6.
Figure A5.6. Multiple Ground Rod Grid Configurations.
A5.3.1.2. Ground clamps must be the proper size for the ground rod in use and must provide
surface-to-surface contact between the ground wire and the ground rod.
A5.3.1.3. Unless not feasible, all ground connections will be connected from top to bottom with
the terminating end of the wire pointing down. This orientation will ensure the possibility of
loose connections falling out of the ground rod connections.
A5.3.1.4. Ensure all ground rods and clamps are free of paint, dirt, grease and oxidation.
A5.3.1.5. Locate ground rods approximately two-six ft from the equipment to be grounded and
as close to the ground connection as possible.
A5.3.1.6. Avoid positioning ground rods and stringing ground wire in front of entrance ways or
across high traffic areas.
A5.3.1.7. Do not allow the ground wire to form coils as it is laid between ground connections.
A5.3.1.8. Multiple systems or C-E equipment may be connected to a single ground rod provided
you use a separate clamp per connection. There is no specific limit to the number of connections
to a single ground rod.
A5.3.1.9. Unless otherwise specified in this instruction, T.O. 31-10-24, or the equipment T.O.,
the ground wire may be solid or stranded and bare or insulated.
A5.3.1.10. Ground wires from equipment to ground rods will be as straight as possible with no
bends sharper than 90 degrees or a bend radius of less than 8 inches.
A5.3.1.11. If the site central or facility subsystem is to be installed for an extended period of
time it is recommended the subsystem be buried. The determination to bury the system will be
the responsibility of the site commander or the designated representative with the consultation of
the Grounding Team Chief. The determining factors include but are not limited to
availability/type of grounding installation equipment, manpower, and/or environmental
conditions. When a below ground install is recommended it will be constructed using the
following procedures. Recommendation for above ground installation will be completed in the
same fashion with the exception of burring the connecting cable.
A5.3.1.11.1. Dig a hole approximately 12 inches deep with sufficient circumference to allow
connections to be made to the ground rod. Drive the ground rods so they are approximately 6
inches below the top of the hole and 6 inches above the bottom soil of the hole.
A5.3.1.11.2. Connect the rods with #1/0 AWG bare stranded copper wire.
A5.3.1.11.3. Bury the connecting #1/0 AWG cable in a 10-12 inch trench with the exception
being the points at which the power systems/lightning protection will connect to the earth
electrode. All other points will be backfilled.
A5.3.1.11.4. When feasible, separate site facility ground grids will be connected using #1/0
AWG wire if the equipment grounded to the grids are interconnected with wire communications
cables and the resistance of one or more of the grids exceeds the design value of 10 ohms. This
standard will ensure all grids are at the same potential when high resistance soil types are
encountered.
A5.3.1.11.5. A 3 ft. section or longer ground rod will be placed every 100 ft. on long ground
runs for discharge of static build-up in the long runs.
A5.3.1.11.6. If a long ground wire run needs splicing, drive a single ground rod and connect the
ends with a separate clamp for each end of the splice. For this connection, a single three-foot
section of rod may be used since it is for support of the connection and not the primary ground
source.
A5.3.1.11.7. For equipment collocated in tents (i.e., TDC/ICAP equipment) a ground bus system
may be constructed around the outside perimeter of the tent. Interconnect at least one nine ft.
ground rod with other rods located at intervals along the side(s) to anchor the ground wire.
Using ground clamps, connect a continuous #6 AWG wire to each ground rod. The number of
ground rods needed and the length of the system depends on tent size and equipment location.
Use enough ground rods to securely anchor the ground wire. If the wire crosses a tent entrance,
install a cable trough or bury the wire at the entrance to eliminate a tripping hazard. Equipment
in the tent may be grounded, as required, to any point on the bus. Due to the use of the five wire
system the ground bus will not need to be connected to the MSG.
A5.3.1.11.8. If two or more sets of generators, prime and back-up/technical and mechanical, are
co-located they may utilize one nine foot common ground rod. Each pair will be connected
directly to the site central ground grid with #6 AWG or larger.
A5.3.2. Earth Electrode Subsystem (EES).
A5.3.2.1. To form the facility or central ground system, the fault protection, signal reference and
lightning protection subsystems will be established IAW equipment T.O.s and connected to the
EES.
A5.3.2.2. The EES may consist of a single ground rod or interconnected ground rods in a multi-
rod configuration. The type of subsystem selected will depend on site design and/or soil
type/resistance. The multi-rod configurations recommended are the delta for normal soils, or the
star arrangement for rocky or other problem soils (see Figure A5.1).
A5.3.2.3. The distance the rods are to be spaced in multi-rod configurations will be 1½ to 2
times the length of the longest ground rod in the system. For example, if the longest rod in a
system is nine ft, then the spacing for the rods will be 13.5 to 18 ft. (see Figure A5.1).
A5.3.2.4. The inter-connecting wires in a ground grid will be stranded #1/0 bare AWG.
A5.3.3. Fault Protection Subsystem (FPS).
A5.3.3.1. Ensure generators are properly connected to earth electrode subsystem. Measure
generator chassis-to-earth electrode subsystem resistance with an ohmmeter to ensure ground
terminal connections between the equipment chassis and ground rod are not loose or corroded.
The reading should be less than one ohm. If greater resistance is indicated, take the necessary
actions to correct the problem before connecting power cables or starting generator.
A5.3.3.2. Power distribution boxes and other equipment with power connections that include
separate ground and neutral conductors (e.g. 208-volt/3-phase/5-wire, 120-volt/1-phase/3-wire)
are connected to the fault protection subsystem through the five wire power cable. They do not
require a separate fault protection ground cable unless the equipment T.O. specifically requires
an additional connection. The neutral power connection of other configurations may not be used
as a fault protection ground.
A5.3.3.3. For other equipment, before connecting signal or power cables to the equipment,
FIRST connect a ground wire from the power panel ground terminal to the equipment ground
rod as per the equipment T.O. The size of the ground wire from the power panel ground
connection of the van, shelter or other equipment to the earth electrode system will be #6 AWG
or larger.
A5.3.3.3.1. Check for AC and DC voltage difference between the ground grid and ground wire
of equipment to be added. If voltage difference greater than 50 volts is indicated, troubleshoot to
determine and eliminate electrical source and recheck for voltage difference. If less than two
volts difference is indicated, connect ground wire. If the voltage difference is between two and
50 volts, use one end of an insulated jumper cable to the ground rod and the other end to the
equipment ground wire, connect the ground wire to the ground rod, and remove the jumper.
A5.3.3.3.2. On four-wire equipment, when using a four-to-five-wire adapter, connect an external
fault protection ground wire from the power panel ground terminal of the equipment through a
clamp on the equipment ground rod, to the ground terminal of the adapter. From the adapter to
the generator set, the connection is made within the power cable.
A5.3.3.3.3. On four-wire equipment, when a four-to-five-wire adapter is not used, the fault
protection ground wire must be run from the power panel ground terminal of the equipment to
the ground terminal of the generator set. This wire must be continuous with no breaks or splices
and cannot be terminated at a power distribution box. The recommended method of connection
is to route the wire from the equipment power panel ground terminal, through a clamp on the
equipment ground rod, through a clamp on the generator ground rod, to the ground terminal on
the generator set. If the external fault protection ground wire is physically attached to the power
cable it is considered part of the cable and will be green insulated or green insulated with yellow
stripes. Attach the wire to the power cable using black tie straps, or green or black duct tape at
least 1/4" wide. Allow approximately 12" between securing points.
A5.3.3.3.4. Stand-alone, four-wire air conditioners and heat exchangers may have their own
ground rod, however, the ground terminals or rods of these units will be connected to the ground
rod of their power source (i.e., shelter or generator set). Co-located units may share a common
ground rod as long as a separate clamp is used for each connection.
A5.3.3.3.5. To remove equipment from the ground grid, turn off equipment to be removed and
disconnect from power source. Next, connect insulated jumper wire between ground rod and
ground wire to be disconnected. Disconnect ground wire and remove jumper wire LAST.
A5.3.3.3.6. For small communications equipment (e.g., personal computers, ground radios,
TSSRs, etc.) , the third wire contained within the power cord provides a sufficient connection to
ground, provided the generator set is properly grounded--unless the equipment T.O. specifically
requires an additional ground.
A5.3.4. Lightning Protection Subsystem (LPS).
A5.3.4.1. Lightning protection devices will be installed IAW equipment T.O.s.
A5.3.4.2. The air terminal or lightning protection device ground rod will be connected
DIRECTLY to the site earth electrode subsystem using #1/0 AWG or larger ground wire. This
ground wire will be as short as possible, with no coils or sharp turns and unless otherwise
specified located within two-six feet from the equipment being protected.
A5.3.4.3. The wire used in the earth electrode subsystem grid to which a lightning protection
device is connected must be #1/0 AWG bare stranded wire. These connections will be at
different ground rods than the Fault Protection Subsystem or Signal Reference Subsystem.
A5.3.5. Signal Reference Subsystem (SRS).
A5.3.5.1. The signal reference subsystem provides a means to reduce system noise by providing
a common reference between sources and loads.
A5.3.5.2. In shelterized systems, the SRS is normally connected to the FPS at the shelter ground
lug. Where a separate SRS is required by equipment technical directives, it should be installed
after the equipment is connected to the FPS. Multiple signal panel ground terminals located on
collocated equipment may be "daisy chained" with a continuous run of #6 AWG wire.
A5.3.5.3. The SRS will be isolated from the fault protection system and lightning protection
system, and connected to the EES at a single point using #6 AWG wire or larger at a different
ground rod than the FPS and LPS. Equipment connected by wired connections (e.g. not via RF
or fiber optic) should be connected to a common EES.
A5.4. Procedures for Ground Installation While in Garrison. An in-garrison facility ground
will be coordinated with base civil engineers. If the facility ground was installed by the unit,
maintenance and certification of the facility ground will be reviewed by base civil engineering.
The unit, not base civil engineers, are responsible for an annual inspection, test of the facility
grounds, and documentation in the facility manager’s files. The central grounding point will be
identified with a danger sign, which reads:
                       "CENTRAL GROUND-DO NOT DISCONNECT
                      WITHOUT APPROVAL OF THE COMMANDER."
A5.5. Bulk Fuel Storage Grounding.
A5.5.1. Refueling equipment, while parked/stored (e.g., fuel trucks, trailers, and drums)
containing Class I fuel (e.g., MOGAS and JP-4) will be grounded with a separate static ground.
This ground will not be connected to site power, signal, equipment fault protection, lightning
protection, or any other grounds.
A5.5.2. It is recommended, but not required, that the procedures in paragraph 5.1 also be applied
to parked/stored refueling equipment containing Class II fuels, e.g., diesel and JP-8.
A5.5.3. During refueling of ground support equipment and vehicles, a ground strap will be used
between the equipment being fueled and the refueling equipment.
A5.6. Grounding Kits.
A5.6.1. Each unit should establish a kit for installing a grounding system when deployed.
Suggested kit contents are listed in Table A5.1. Quantities may be tailored to meet mission
requirements for all systems requiring grounding, but not limited to existing systems. The kit or
kits may provide for contingencies such as leap concept, whereby a portion of the unit stays in-
place while another part re-deploys to establish a new site.
A5.6.2. The Grounding Kit items should be maintained in sufficient quantities to meet mobility
requirements. All materials should be kept in-garrison in a "hands-off" status ready for
deployment. Work centers should maintain an adequate supply of grounding materials for its
individual equipment needs.
A5.7. Concept Release Policy. Release of a complete or partial concept document is governed
by AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information. Multi-command, multi-
service, and Joint concept document initiatives require concurrence of all users before such
documents may be released. Draft documents released prior to AFSPC approval must clearly
state they do not necessarily reflect AFSPC policy or approval and are subject to change.

Table A5.1. Grounding Kit.

                          ITEM                                       CBCS/ACS
  #1/0 AWG (bare ; stranded)                          300 ft.
  #6 AWG (bare or insulated; solid or stranded)       600 ft.
  Rod, grounding (each rod is composed of 3           10
  sections, 5/8" diameter) Total: 9 ft
  Slide hammer or Impact Driver/Punjar                1
  Clamp grounding:
     S53505 Slip-Joint Nut                            10
     VTA-4 Splice                                     10
     ¾ in. Clamp                                      100
  Safety goggles                                      1 pair per team member
  Hammer, sledge                                      2
  Box wrench set                                      2
  File, flat bastard, w/handle                        2
  Tape measure: 100ft                                 2
  Wire brush                                          2
  Flagging Tape                                       4 rolls
  Emery paper                                         8 sheets
  Magnesium sulfate (Epsom salts)*                    20 lbs.
  Fall-of-potential test set (Vibroground or equiv.)  1
  Water                                               As needed
  Sign: "CENTRAL/FACILITY GROUND - DO                 As needed per delta/facility ground
  NOT DISCONNECT WITHOUT APPROVAL                     installed.
  OF THE COMMANDER"
  Other items as determined by unit
  Note:
  1. The above items are suggestions. Adjust quantities and composition as mission requirements
  dictate.
  * With guidance from the environmental compliance officer the site commander or designated
  representative will determine the proper use of magnesium sulfate to decrease earth electrode
  subsystem resistance.
                                          Attachment 6

   COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS RF TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS EMPLOYMENT
                          STANDARDS

A6.1. General. This addendum pertains to Radio Frequency (RF) Transmission Systems
employed by Combat Communications Squadrons. This addendum should be utilized as a
general employment guide with expected UTC setup times. The overall intent of this document
is to standardize RF Transmission Systems employment practices across the Combat
Communications community. This guidance applies to HQ AFSPC and all HQ AFSPC owned
and gained combat communications units. This guidance applies to ANG and AFRC units with
combat communications responsibilities.
A6.2. Combat Communications RF Transmissions Systems. Combat Communications
Squadrons utilize RF Transmission UTC’s supporting TDC packages and other specifically
tailored missions. RF transmission systems will be setup in accordance with applicable T.O.s,
AFIs, COTS manuals, Satellite Access Authorizations (SAA), Army Forces Strategic Command
Circular 1 (ASC-1), DISA circulars and other approved publications.
A6.3. Combat Communications RF Transmissions Systems Proficiencies. Units
demonstrate the ability to setup, operate and maintain RF Transmission Systems to include:
Transportable Satellite Systems, Wideband Systems, Manpack radios, Satellite phone packages
(International Maritime Satellite (INMARSAT), Broadband Global Area Network (BGAN) and
Iridium satellite phones). Units will provide continuous reliable data links and maintenance
response to RF transmission systems.
A6.3.1. Typical 3D1X3 proficiencies: Satellite Access, Link Activation, Link Testing,
Technical Ability and Record Keeping.
A6.3.1.1. Satellite Access. Technicians must demonstrate proper satellite access procedures
using Replacement Frequency Modulation Order Wire (RFMOW) in accordance with ASC-1 for
DSCS satellites and commercial satellite access procedures for commercial Ka, Ku and C band
satellites.
A6.3.1.2. Link Activation. Technicians must demonstrate proficiency in trouble shooting
equipment and configurations to establish a testable RF link.
A6.3.1.3. Link Testing. The technician must demonstrate black side (unencrypted modem to
modem) link testing IAW DISA Circular 300-175-9, Standards if utilizing X-band in legacy
configurations. If utilizing Internet Protocol Modems, (iDirect in ICEv3) the link will be suitably
tested for reliability.
A6.3.1.4. Technical Ability. 3D1X3s must demonstrate proficiency in the following areas:
A6.3.1.4.1. Adherence to T.O.s and commercial manuals at all times.
A6.3.1.4.2. Antenna erection.
A6.3.1.4.3. Antenna system anchoring.
A6.3.1.4.4. Installation of associated grounding systems.
A6.3.1.4.5. Installation of associated lightning protection systems.
A6.3.1.4.6. Electronic and mechanical trouble shooting.
A6.3.1.4.7. System operations.
A6.3.1.4.8. System maintenance.
A6.3.1.5. Record Keeping. Technicians will maintain maintenance records MSL, Ground
Mobile Forces (GMF) status reporting log (if RFMOW is not operational) and maintenance data
documentation).
A6.4. RF Transmission Systems Employment Guides. *Note: All listed UTC setup times are
general and can be affected by many things such as weather, terrain, equipment, technician’s
proficiency, equipment pre-configuration, hub spoke configuration and DISA required test times.
A6.4.1. AN/USC-60A TRI-BAND SATCOM.
A6.4.1.1. UTC 6KAMG, TRI-BAND SATCOM can be setup in four hours after initial site
power is available.
A6.4.1.2. Ensure equipment is located in an area identified by ADVON team or site engineer.
A6.4.1.3. Conduct Initial Safety Briefing and document on MSL with start time of site setup.
A6.4.1.3.1. Ensure all personnel are properly using required PPE when installing equipment
(gloves, hard hat, hearing protection and safety glasses).
A6.4.1.4. Document initial setup on AFTO 349, Air Force Maintenance Data Collection
Record. Obtain Job Control Number (JCN) from CFP.
A6.4.1.5. Begin setup of AN/USC-60A IAW AN/USC-60A Technical Manual DN3190,
Operation and Unit Level Maintenance Manual, Flyaway Triband Satellite Terminal, Vol. I,
chapter 2.
A6.4.1.6. Document time of antenna erection completion and electronics cases setup on MSL.
A6.4.1.7. Before power is applied ensure the antenna, lightning protection and electronics cases
are grounded IAW T.O. 31-10-24, AN/USC-60A Technical Manual DN3190 ,Vol. I, and
Addendum D. Antenna lightning protection must be connected to the site master station ground.
A6.4.1.8. Program electronics cases IAW SAA or commercial cut sheet (if utilizing Ku or C
band) and mission requirements.
A6.4.1.9. Locate the satellite using SAA azimuth, elevation and frequency data if utilizing X
band or commercial cut sheet (if utilizing Ku or C band).
A6.4.1.9.1. If operational, the beacon tracking system must be used on military X band
satellites.
A6.4.1.10. Strap and load RFMOW encryption device IAW RFMOW Manual TM 11-5895-
1780-13&P Rev 1, Replacement Frequency Modulated Orderwire Operators Manual, appendix
C and Technical Data Package (TDP) (if utilizing military X band). If utilizing Ku or C band,
skip to step A6.4.1.12.
A6.4.1.11. Access the satellite IAW ASC-1 Volume 1, Version 5, Sections 7.9, Army Space
Circular-1,. and 8.2 if utilizing X band. Access the satellite IAW commercial satellite service
providers instructions if utilizing Ku or C band.
A6.4.1.12. Document satellite acquisition time on MSL.
A6.4.1.13. If ICEv3 is utilized, skip to A6.4.2.
A6.4.1.14. If a legacy network will be utilized (ETSSP and or Promina), perform a black end to
end circuit test (modem to modem) with the Fireberd test set IAW DISA Circular 300-175-9,
Chapter 3.4.1.1.
A6.4.1.15. Document black end to end test on MSL.
A6.4.1.16. If an ETSSP is utilized, program IAW TDP and connect modem to TSSP.
A6.4.1.17. Document ETSSP lock on MSL.
A6.4.1.18. Hand over circuit actions to tech control.
A6.4.1.19. If ICEv3 is utilized, load option file and integrate L-band IF to iDirect modem.
A6.4.1.20. Perform an appropriate link test (ping through the distant end IP modem) and then
hand over circuit actions to tech control.
A6.4.1.21. Close job on AFTO 349 and notify chain of command of equipment status.
A6.4.2. AN/TSC-179 Ground Multi-band Terminal (GMT).
A6.4.2.1. UTC 6KJA1, GMT can be setup in 4-12 hours after initial site power is available
depending on configuration.
A6.4.2.2. Ensure equipment is located in area identified by the ADVON team or site engineer.
A6.4.2.3. Conduct Initial Safety Briefing and document on MSL with start time of site setup.
A6.4.2.3.1. Ensure all personnel are properly using required PPE when installing equipment
(gloves, hard hat, hearing protection and safety glasses).
A6.4.2.4. Document initial setup on AFTO 349. Obtain Job Control Number (JCN) from
maintenance control.
A6.4.2.5. Start setup of GMT IAW TO 31R2-2TSC179-1, Operation and Unit Level
Maintenance Manual, AN/TSC-179, Ground Multi-Band Terminal (GMT), Chapter 2.
A6.4.2.6. Document time of antenna erection completion and electronics cases setup on MSL.
A6.4.2.7. Before applying power, ensure the antenna, lightning protection and electronics cases
are grounded IAW TO 31R2-2TSC179-1 and Addendum D. Antenna lightning protection must
be connected to the site master station ground.
A6.4.2.8. Program electronics cases IAW SAA, military X/Ka band or commercial cut sheet (if
utilizing Ka, Ku or C band), and mission requirements.
A6.4.2.9. Strap and load RFMOW encryption device IAW RFMOW Manual TM 11-5895-1780-
13&P Rev 1, Replacement Frequency Modulated Orderwire Operators Manual, appendix C and
TDP (if utilizing military X band).
A6.4.2.10. Access the satellite IAW ASC-1 Volume 1, Version 5, Sections 7.9 and 8.2 if
utilizing X band and commercial satellite service providers instructions if utilizing Ka, Ku or C
band.
A6.4.2.11. Document satellite acquisition time on MSL.
A6.4.2.12. If ICEv3 is utilized, skip to A6.4.2.18.
A6.4.2.13. If a legacy network will be utilized (ETSSP and or Promina), perform a black end to
end circuit test (modem to modem) with the Fireberd test set IAW DISA Circular 300-175-9
Chapter 3.4.1.1.
A6.4.2.14. Document black end to end test on MSL.
A6.4.2.15. If an ETSSP is utilized, program IAW TDP and connect modem to TSSP.
A6.4.2.16. Document ETSSP lock on the MSL.
A6.4.2.17. Hand over circuit actions to tech control.
A6.4.2.18. If ICEv3 is utilized, load option file and integrate L-band IF to iDirect modem at this
time.
A6.4.2.19. Perform an appropriate link test (ping through the distant end IP modem) and then
hand over circuit actions to tech control.
A6.4.2.20. Close job on AFTO 349 and notify chain of command of equipment status.
A6.4.3. OE-593F Quadband Large Aperture Antenna.
A6.4.3.1. UTC 6KABS can be setup in three hours.
A6.4.3.2. Ensure equipment is located in area identified by the ADVON team or site engineer.
A6.4.3.3. Conduct Initial Safety Briefing and document on MSL with start time of site setup.
A6.4.3.3.1. Ensure all personnel are properly using required PPE when moving or installing
equipment (gloves, hard hat, hearing protection and safety glasses).
A6.4.3.4. Document initial setup on AFTO 349. Obtain Job Control Number (JCN) from
deployed maintenance control.
A6.4.3.5. Start setup of QLAA IAW L3 Commercial Manual DN4005 Rev 5, Section 5,
paragraph 2-5.
A6.4.3.6. Ensure QLAA is grounded IAW L3 Commercial Manual DN4005 Rev 5 and
Addendum D.
A6.4.3.7. Document time of completed antenna erection on MSL.
A6.4.3.8. Access the satellite IAW ASC-1 Volume 1, Army Space Circular-1,Version 5,
Sections 7.9 and 8.2 if utilizing X/Ka band and commercial satellite service providers
instructions if utilizing Ku or C band.
A6.4.3.9. Document satellite acquisition time on MSL.
A6.4.3.10. Perform a black end to end circuit test with Fireberd test set IAW DISA Circular
300-175-9 Chapter 3.4.1.1. (if using serial SATCOM).
A6.4.3.11. Document test on MSL.
A6.4.3.12. After initial setup procedures are completed, and a successful black end to end test is
accomplished, pass data to technical control and close job with maintenance control.
A6.4.4. AN/TRC-170V2 Tropospheric Scatter Microwave Radio Terminal.
A6.4.4.1. UTC 6KHG1 can be setup in eight hours.
A6.4.4.2. Ensure equipment is located in area identified by the ADVON team or site engineer.
A6.4.4.3. Conduct Initial Safety Briefing and document on MSL with start time of site setup.
A6.4.4.3.1. Ensure all personnel are properly using required PPE when moving or installing
equipment (gloves, hard hat, hearing protection and safety glasses).
A6.4.4.4. Document initial setup on AFTO 349. Obtain Job Control Number (JCN) from
deployed maintenance control.
A6.4.4.5. Start setup of AN/TRC-170V2 IAW TO 31R2-2TRC170 chapter 2.
A6.4.4.6. Document time of completed antenna erection and electronics setup on MSL.
A6.4.4.7. Before applying power, ensure the AN/TRC-170, LPA, and Generators (if applicable)
are grounded IAW T.O. 31R2-2TRC170 and Addendum D.
A6.4.4.8. Start antenna alignment IAW TO 31R2-2TRC170 chapter 4.7.
A6.4.4.9. Document distant end acquisition time on MSL.
A6.4.4.10. Perform a link test with distant end.
A6.4.4.11. Document link test on MSL.
A6.4.4.12. After initial setup procedures are completed, and a successful link test is
accomplished, pass data to technical control (if applicable) and close job with maintenance
control.
A6.4.5. AN/TRC-170A Tropospheric Scatter Microwave Radio Terminal.
A6.4.5.1. UTC 6KHG2 can be setup in eight hours by four personnel.
A6.4.5.2. Ensure equipment is located in area identified by the ADVON team or site engineer.
A6.4.5.3. Conduct Initial Safety Briefing and document on MSL with start time of site setup.
A6.4.5.3.1. Ensure all personnel are properly using required PPE when moving or installing
equipment (gloves, hard hat, hearing protection and safety glasses).
A6.4.5.4. Document initial setup on AFTO 349. Obtain JCN from deployed maintenance
control.
A6.4.5.5. Start setup of AN/TRC-170A IAW TO 31R2-2TRC170-11-1, Combined Operator
and Maintenance Instructions, Radio Terminal Set, AN/TRC-170A, Chapter 2 and Digital Tropo
Modem Upgrade manual 142F009900-1, Revision E.
A6.4.5.6. Document time of completed antenna erection and electronics setup on MSL.
A6.4.5.7. Before applying power, ensure the AN/TRC-170A, LPA, and Generators (if
applicable) are grounded IAW T.O. 31R2-2TRC170 and Addendum D.
A6.4.5.8. Start antenna alignment IAW T.O. 31R2-2TRC170 chapter 4.7.
A6.4.5.9. Document distant end acquisition time on MSL.
A6.4.5.10. Perform a link test with distant end.
A6.4.5.11. Document link test on MSL.
A6.4.5.12. After initial setup procedures are completed, and a successful link test is
accomplished, pass data to technical control (if applicable) and close job with maintenance
control.
A6.5. Concept Release Policy. Release of a complete or partial concept document is governed
by AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information. Multi-command, multi-
service and Joint concept document initiatives require concurrence of all users before such
documents may be released. Draft documents released prior to AFSPC approval must clearly
state they do not necessarily reflect AFSPC policy or approval and are subject to change.
                                          Attachment 7

     COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK OPERATIONS EMPLOYMENT
                          STANDARDS

A7.1. General. These Cyberspace Operations UTCs are the core of Combat Communications
TDC. They are designed to provide initial activation of core voice (Secure/Non secure), data
services (NIPR, SIPR), and radio (LMR) to support contingency operations. These services are
provided by the deployment of specific UTCs: 6KTFB, 6KTFC, and 6KTFD. This guidance
applies to HQ AFSPC and all HQ AFSPC owned and gained combat communications units.
This guidance applies to ANG and AFRC units with combat communications responsibilities.
A7.2. Network Employment UTCs.
A7.2.1. TDC Core Capability (6KTFB). This core capabilities UTC is intended to establish a
base Network Control Center (NCC) and will support a base population of 50-150 users within a
100 meter radius with user provided IA compliant instruments. The UTC provides 8 SIPRNet8
NIPRNet and 8 voice capability for users in a communications café and can support an
additional 40 SIPRNet, 40 NIPRNet, and 40 voice over internet protocol (VoIP) connections.

A7.2.1.1. This UTC is dependent on several factors for employment. Satellite communications
must be established to provide reach-back capability. The transmission media must be a
separately tasked UTC e.g. 6KAMG (AN/USC-60A), 6KJA1 (AN/TSC-179, GMT). Test
equipment must also be added to validate network connectivity to the site if the UTC is deployed
as a standalone UTC.

A7.2.1.2. Personnel requirements to support this UTC consist of six personnel. One each of the
following AFSCs are required: 17DXX, 3D1X2, 3D1X1, 3E0X2, 3D0X2, and 3D0X3. Force
provider may substitute a 3D100 for 17DXX.

A7.2.1.3. This UTC may also be used in operations outside of the force module construct, such
as for a small Forward Operating Location (FOL) or during base draw down. When used in this
capacity it provides a standalone capability designed for use in situations where scalability is not
required (e.g. eight SIPRNet, eight NIPRNet, and eight Voice).

A7.2.1.4. Information Assurance In-Garrison actions require all Information Assurance Officers
(IAOs) must be fully trained, and appointed in writing, by their squadron commander. All
mission systems will be scanned and checked for vulnerabilities and patches. All systems,
laptops and external hard drives will be properly marked with the classification labels as
appropriate; i.e. SF 710, Unclassified Label for ADP Media in SCI Facilities for Unclassified
machines, SF 707, Secret ADP Media Classification Label for Secret machines. Systems will be
regularly checked by IAOs and Server Administrators for vulnerabilities; the results will be
maintained by IAOs and the status of systems will be reported to the appropriate
communications squadron commander for asset availability. IAOs will comply with AFI 33-
200, Information Assurance (IA) Management for all other IA concerns.

A7.2.1.5. Information Assurance while deployed requires, in addition to in-garrison
requirements, IAOs to utilize the Designated Approval Authority’s (DAA) Trusted Facility
Manual for the AOR the unit will be serving in. If a DAA is not assigned, or if a Trusted Facility
Manual does not exist, the Special Instructions for Communicators (SPIN-C) will be used to
determine how IA procedures will proceed. The SPIN-C (having specific details tailored to the
AOR) will be used in conjunction with AFI 33-200. If there are any discrepancies on
policies/procedures between the Trusted Facility Manual for TDC, SPIN-C or AFI 33-200, the
A6 or joint equivalent will make the final determination on how to proceed.

A7.2.2. TDC Expansion (6KTFC). This UTC provides bridging for 6KTFB to 6KTFD and
consists of switches, routers, GBS, and transmission media necessary to compliment 6KTFD to
expand the sites services. This UTC also consists of legacy equipment e.g. Promina, Basic
Access Module (BAM), and Large Voice Module (LVM) to support other possible TDC mission
requirements. It also provides expanded LMR capabilities and additional manning to sustain
continuous 24 hour operations.

A7.2.2.1. 6KTFC is dependent on 6KTFBs infrastructure to interface legacy equipment to the
network e.g. servers and SATCOM. A separate 6KTFD must be tasked with 6KTFC to provide
site expansion capability. Civil engineering support must be tasked separately to support this
TDC expansion UTC e.g. 6KLS1.

A7.2.2.2. Personnel requirements to support this UTC consist of nine personnel. One each of
the following AFSCs: 3D190, 3D053 and 3D073. Two each of the following AFSCs: 3D152,
3D153 and 3D052. Force provider may substitute a 3D17X (MSgt) or 3D090 for 3D190.

A7.2.2.3. Simultaneous setup of 6KTFC and an initial 6KTFD is required to provide
expansion/distribution of services.

A7.2.3. TDC Distribution Equipment (6KTFD). This UTC provides a deployable network
operations package to expand upon 6KTFB. It is designed to provide connectivity for voice and
data at extended sites up to 16 kilometers from the NCC at expeditionary airbases. It also
provides expanded secure and non-secure voice and data services in increments of 600 users at
3:1 users to services ratio. Additionally, the UTC expands LMR capabilities by 20 LMRs.

A7.2.3.1. This communications UTC is intended to utilize Radio Frequency Module’s (RF
Mod), Red Data Module’s (RDM), and LAN kits to extend services up to 16 kilometers from the
NCC.

A7.2.3.2. 6KTFD must be utilized in conjunction with 6KTFB and 6KTFC.

A7.2.3.3. Every third 6KTFD requires additional manning by separately tasking UTC 6KTFE.

A7.3. Activation Timelines. This section will provide the approximate timelines for each
Network Employment UTC to be considered fully operational.
*Note: All listed UTC setup times are general and can be affected by many factors including
weather, terrain, equipment, technician’s proficiency, equipment pre-configuration, hub spoke
configuration and DISA required test times.
A7.3.1. TDC Core Capability (6KTFB). Initial core capability communications services can be
established in 48 hours. The preferred method is to pre-configure/program all components prior
to deployment IAW GAA and Technical Data Package (TDP).*Note: All 6KTFB components
must be configured IAW applicable AFIs, TOs, DISA publications, commercial manuals, TDC
Trusted Facility Manual, FCOs, NOTAMs, TCNOs, and TCTOs.

A7.3.1.1. Physical configurations complete (S+6 hrs).

A7.3.1.1.1. Pallet breakdown.

A7.3.1.1.2. Tent set-up.

A7.3.1.1.3. Physical placement of equipment.

A7.3.1.1.4. Initial cable runs.

A7.3.1.1.5. Equipment grounding.

A7.3.1.2. Begin all component configurations.

A7.3.1.3. All component configurations complete (S+24 hrs).

A7.3.1.3.1. Cryptographic devices.

A7.3.1.3.2. Servers (i.e. domain controllers, exchange).

A7.3.1.3.3. Boundary protection (i.e. proxy and firewall).

A7.3.1.3.4. Routers and switches (External/internal).

A7.3.1.3.5. Voice/VOIP.

A7.3.1.4. Begin validation and certification of Network Operations circuits, trunks, and services.
Any communications link, trunk, or circuit that interfaces with the Global Information Grid
(GIG) must meet the parameters outlined in DISAC 300-175-9. Testing is described in DISAC
310-70-1. At a minimum SATCOM/DRSN will be bit error rate tested for 2 hrs with all others
being tested for at least 30 minutes prior to activation.

A7.3.1.4.1. Bit Error Rate Tester (BERT) testing (red/back).

A7.3.1.4.2. Café user verification.

A7.3.1.4.3. Server backups.

A7.3.1.4.4. Antivirus updates/security protocols/FCO compliance.
A7.3.1.4.5. Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) Load test.

A7.3.1.5. Initial communications UTC fully operational and IA compliant (S+48 hrs).

A7.3.2. TDC Expansion / Distribution (6KTFC/6KTFD). Simultaneous setup of 6KTFC and an
initial 6KTFD is required to provide expansion/distribution of services within approximately 24
hours. The 24 hour expansion timeline builds upon the 6KTFB 48 hour activation time for a
total of 72 hours. Setup for each additional 6KTFD is 24 hours. Preferred method is to pre-
configure/program all components prior to deployment.

A7.3.2.1. Expansion services will be fully operational 24 hours after arrival of expansion UTCs
(6KTFC/6KTFD).

A7.3.2.1.1. Legacy services (if tasked/required).

A7.3.2.1.2. Bridge equipment for 6KTFB to 6KTFD.

A7.3.2.1.3. Test equipment.

A7.3.2.1.4. Transmission media expansion. Note: All 6KTFC/6KTFD component
configurations are IAW applicable AFIs, T.O.s, DISA publications, commercial manuals, TDC
Trusted Facility Manual, FCOs, NOTAMs, TCNOs, and TCTOs. Time to extend services
outside of the NCC area varies depending on complexity of the CTO.

A7.4. Concept Release Policy. Release of a complete or partial concept document is governed
by AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information. Multi-command, multi-
service, and Joint concept document initiatives require concurrence of all users before such
documents may be released. Draft documents released prior to AFSPC approval must clearly
state they do not necessarily reflect AFSPC policy or approval and are subject to change.
                                         Attachment 8

      COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS DATCALS EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS

A8.1. General. This attachment pertains to Deployable Air Traffic Control and Landing
Systems (DATCALS) employed by Combat Communications Squadrons. This addendum
should be utilized as a general employment guide with expected Unit Type Code (UTC) setup
times. The overall intent of this document is to standardize DATCALS employment practices in
the Combat Communications community. This guidance applies to HQ AFSPC and all HQ
AFSPC owned and gained combat communications units. This guidance applies to ANG and
AFRC units with combat communications responsibilities.
A8.1.1. Combat Communications DATCALS. Combat Communications Squadrons utilize
DATCALS UTC’s to support airfield operations. DATCALS setup in accordance with
applicable T.O.s, AFIs and COTS manuals.
A8.2. Combat Communications DATCALS Proficiencies. Units demonstrate the ability to
setup, operate and maintain DATCALS to include: TPN-19 Landing Control Central, MSN-7
Mobile Tower, and TRN-26C Tactical Air Navigation (TACAN).
A8.3. DATCALS Systems Employment Guides. All listed UTC setup times are general and
can be affected by many things such as weather, terrain, equipment, and technician’s proficiency.
A8.3.1. TPN-19 Landing Control Central.
A8.3.1.1. UTC 6KBV2, TPN-19 Landing Control Central can be setup in 36 hours (system will
require additional time for required flight checks and operational calibration).
A8.3.1.2. Ensure equipment is located in area identified by site survey team (or pre-established
location as determined by site engineer).
A8.3.1.3. Conduct Initial Safety Briefing and document on MSL.
A8.3.1.4. Ensure all personnel are properly using required .PPE when moving or installing
equipment.
A8.3.1.5. Document initial setup on AFTO 349. Obtain Job Control Number (JCN) from
deployed maintenance control.
A8.3.1.6. Assign personnel to work on shelters.
A8.3.1.7. Start setup of TPN-19 IAW T.O. 31P5-2TPN19-2, T.O. 31P5-2TPN24-12, and T.O.
31P5-2TPN25-12 Chapter 2.
A8.3.1.8. Identify and mark all radiation hazard and fall zones.
A8.3.1.9. Ensure Facility Data folder is constructed IAW T.O. 00 33-A-1001, General
Communications Activities Management Procedures and Practice, Ch 4, para 4.12.
A8.3.1.10. Ensure Certification Authority Letter is available and annotated IAW T.O. 00 33-A-
1001 Ch 4, para 4.10.
A8.3.1.11. Complete AFTO Form 506, 507, and 508 IAW T.O. 00-33A-1001 Chapter 4, para
4.17.
A8.3.1.12. Flight check TPN-19 IAW Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) procedures. Document
on AFTO Form 499 after flight check.
A8.3.1.13 After initial setup procedures are accomplished, close job with job control.
A8.3.2. MSN-7 Mobile Tower.
A8.3.2.1. UTC 6KBS2, MSN-7 Mobile Tower can be setup in two hours.
A8.3.2.2. Ensure equipment is located in area identified by site survey team (or pre-established
location as determined by site engineer).
A8.3.2.3. Conduct Initial Safety Briefing and document on MSL.
A8.3.2.4. Ensure all personnel are properly using required PPE when moving or installing
equipment.
A8.3.2.5. Document initial setup on AFTO 349. Obtain JCN from deployed maintenance
control.
A8.3.2.6. Start setup of MSN-7 IAW T.O. 31R5-2MSN7-1 table 2-7 (page 2-34).
A8.3.2.7. During mast setup, facility chief conducts and documents normal deployment pre-
operational checklist (31R5-2MSN7-1 table 3-33) in conjunction with the chief controller, who
should be accomplishing their respective checklists.
A8.3.2.8. Identify and mark all radiation hazard and fall zones.
A8.3.2.9. After initial setup procedures are accomplished, close job with job control.
A8.3.2.10. Setup tent and maintenance work center.
A8.3.3. TRN-26C TACAN.
A8.3.3.1. UTC 6KBA2, AN/TRN-26C TACAN can be setup in two hours.
A8.3.3.2. Ensure equipment is located in area identified by site survey team (or pre-established
location as determined by site engineer).
A8.3.3.3. Conduct Initial Safety Briefing and document on MSL.
A8.3.3.4. Ensure all personnel are properly using required PPE when moving or installing
equipment.
A8.3.3.5. Document initial setup on AFTO 349. Obtain JCN from deployed maintenance
control.
A8.3.3.6. Start setup of TRN-26 IAW T.O. 31R4-2TRN26-2, Operation of the TRN-26C
Tactical Navigation System, Chapter 2.
A8.3.3.7. Ensure antenna is properly staked and grounded.
A8.3.3.8. Ensure generator and shelter are properly grounded.
A8.3.3.9. Ensure shelter lightning protection is installed and grounded.
A8.3.3.10. Power up and perform initial setup procedures IAW T.O. 31R4-TRN26C-1, Chapter
3, paragraph 6.2.
A8.3.3.11. Ensure TACAN is set to proper channel.
A8.3.3.12. Ensure TACAN identity code selector switches are set correctly (either the station
assigned ID, TEST, or all code selector switches to blank).
A8.3.3.13. After initial equipment setup procedures are accomplished, close job with job
control.
A8.3.3.14. Ensure Facility Data folder is constructed IAW T.O. 00 33-A-1001 Chapter 4, para
4.12.
A8.3.3.15. Ensure Certification Authority Letter is available and annotated IAW T.O. 00 33-A-
1001 Chapter 4, para 4.11.
A8.3.3.16. Annotate interim data on AFTO Form 515, AN/TRN-26 Facility Reference. (See
example on page 6)
A8.3.3.17. If flight inspection is performed, re-accomplish 515 with flight check data.
A8.3.3.18. Document AFTO Form 499, ATCALS Certification Worksheet after flight check, if
one is able to be performed.
A8.4. Concept Release Policy. Release of a complete or partial concept document is governed
by AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information. Multi-command, multi-
service, and Joint concept document initiatives require concurrence of all users before such
documents may be released. Draft documents released prior to AFSPC approval must clearly
state they do not necessarily reflect AFSPC policy or approval and are subject to change.
