BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                              INSTRUCTION 10-102

                                                                                  22 JULY 2011

                                                                                     Operations

                                                                 CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFSPC/A5XR                                                       Certified by: AFSPC/A5X
                                                                          (Lt Col Todd J. Parks)
Supersedes:   AFSPCI 10-102,                                                          Pages: 26
              15 November 2008


This instruction implements Air Force (AF) Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-28, Air Force Concept
Development. It provides specific Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) implementation
guidance regarding the format, content and organizational responsibilities for preparing,
coordinating and disseminating concept documents that guide development, acquisition and
operation of AFSPC capabilities. This instruction applies to HQ AFSPC, its Numbered Air
Forces (NAF) and assigned wings, the Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC), the Space
Innovation and Development Center (SIDC), the Air Force Network Integration Center
(AFNIC), and the Air Force Spectrum Management Office (AFSMO). It also applies to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units directly supporting
AFSPC units and missions. Electronic Systems Center (ESC) is mentioned for information only,
as they interface with AFSPC for program management. Adherence is mandatory, except when
statutory requirements, Department of Defense (DoD) or Joint Staff directives override. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field to the appropriate HQ AFSPC functional staff. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with      the      Air      Force      Records       Disposition     Schedule       located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.            For references and supporting
information, see Attachment 1.
 2                                                                                           AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision clarifies
and reinforces responsibilities to produce well-thought-out concepts in advance of requirements
development. It also removes potentially repetitive content from the concept format and
reorganizes content by moving information pertinent to understanding the problem to be solved
to near the beginning. Finally, it incorporates current terminology from revised capability
development guidance.

       1.     Concept Definitions and Uses. ...............................................................................              2
Figure 1.1.   Concepts in the AFSPC Capability Development Process. ...................................                                  6
       2.     Concept Content and Format. ................................................................................               7
       3.     Concept Development/Approval Process. .............................................................                       12
       4.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................   14
       5.     Concept Release Policy. .........................................................................................         16
       6.     AFSPC Portal Page. ...............................................................................................        16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          17

Attachment 2—CONCEPT TYPES                                                                                                              22

Attachment 3—CONCEPT FORMAT                                                                                                             23

Attachment 4—EXAMPLE CAPABILITY DESCRIPTIONS                                                                                            24

Attachment 5—CAPABILITY TRACEABILITY MATRIX EXAMPLE                                                                                     26


1. Concept Definitions and Uses. Air Force concepts describe the ways (sequenced actions) in
which we employ military means (capabilities) to accomplish desired ends (effects). They state
how the AF intends to provide air, space and cyberspace power in support of the family of joint
concepts and national security and national military objectives. A concept is not a purely
technical or procedural description, but rather a broader operational description of an actual or
projected challenge to be addressed, the desired effects to solve that problem, and the needed
capabilities to create those effects. For AFSPC, concepts provide the operational context to
inform the planning, requirements and acquisition processes that define, produce and deliver
materiel and non-materiel solutions to satisfy identified warfighter capability gaps and/or
shortfalls. More specifically, a concept can, among other things, support requirements
development, systems development, test planning, Analysis of Alternatives (AoA) development,
provide guidance to operators, and/or provide a mechanism for stimulating thought and common
understanding. The term ―concept‖ as used herein is not to be confused with the term ―concept‖
as used in acquisition circles. Product center (e.g., ESC and SMC) ―concepts‖ are potential
materiel and/or non-materiel solutions that may ultimately have military utility, and are being
developed in response to identified gaps and/or shortfalls. See the list of terms in Attachment 1
for a quick reference of concept definitions, and see Attachment 2 for concept types and
examples.
AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011                                                                      3


  1.1. Concepts of Operations (CONOPS). Joint Publication (JP) 5-0, Joint Operation
  Planning, defines a CONOPS as a clear and concise expression of ―what the [Joint Force
  Commander] intends to accomplish and how it will be done using available resources. It
  describes how the actions of the joint force components and supporting organizations will be
  integrated, synchronized, and phased to accomplish the mission, including potential
  branches and sequels.‖ Note: At the time of this writing, there are seven Air Force
  ―CONOPS.‖ Contrasted with the JP definition of CONOPS above, these documents are ―the
  highest Service-level concept(s) comprising a commander’s assumptions and intent to
  achieve desired effects through the guided integration of capabilities and tasks that solve a
  problem in an expected mission area.‖ An overarching Air Force Operations Concept,
  currently in development, will augment or supplant these seven and provide the long-range
  view of operational capabilities the AF will produce to achieve desired effects in the Joint
  Operating Concepts. For brevity, the remainder of the document will refer to both current AF
  CONOPS and any future AF Operations Concept(s) as ―AF-level concepts.‖ In summary, a
  CONOPS, as defined in JP-5-0 describes how the warfighter (e.g., Component Numbered Air
  Force (C-NAF), AF units) will accomplish missions in the near-term, while the AF-level
  concepts describe the operational capabilities the Air Force will contribute to the joint force
  to meet warfighter needs in the future.
  1.2. Functional Concepts. Air Force Space Command functional concepts describe broad
  capabilities needed to perform functions to, in turn, accomplish missions that support AF-
  and higher-level concepts. By doing this, AFSPC functional concepts support AFSPC
  strategic planning activities as they establish the scope of warfighter-required capabilities
  that can be met within the command’s space and cyberspace mission areas. See Attachment
  2 for the current set of functional concepts.
  1.3. Enabling and Operating Concepts. As prescribed by AFPD 10-28, the command uses
  enabling and operating concepts to describe the use of capabilities to accomplish a broader
  military function or sub-function. They are strongly linked as both describe ―ways,‖
  ―means,‖ and ―ends,‖ to perform a function; however, they differ in their emphasis and detail
  based on the maturity of any acquisition program that may result.
     1.3.1. Enabling Concepts.
         1.3.1.1. Air Force Space Command uses enabling concepts to lead the requirements
         and acquisition processes by articulating—in operational terms—the necessary and
         supporting capabilities to produce desired effects that support warfighter and national
         objectives. They communicate an operational idea without specifying system
         requirements. To do this, they describe, in as much detail as possible, the military
         challenge (problem) to be solved, the risks to successfully achieving the concept,
         assumptions that maintain concept validity, the required timeframe, and how the
         concept will integrate with joint systems, architectures, and organizations in existence
         or likely during the timeframe of operation. An initial concept should draw
         extensively from higher-level concepts and the work done by the AFSPC Integrated
         Planning Process (IPP) and the product centers, but avoid being cost-constrained.
         Ultimately, an enabling concept serves as the operational basis for requirements and
         acquisition activities—to include test planning and execution—for one or more
         systems.
4                                                             AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011


       1.3.1.2. Enabling concepts evolve to reflect current thinking about the subject. A
       concept may start with an initial, low-fidelity description about how the command
       envisions capabilities and operations to meet a particular need; however, it will
       mature along with an associated program (or programs) designed to bring about the
       capabilities listed in the concept. As our ideas for meeting capability needs mature
       into program requirements and funded programs, enabling concepts will likewise
       mature in detail. As a program coalesces to an intended system or systems, the
       enabling concept should mature into an operating concept that describes the
       system(s).
       1.3.1.3. When conducting pre-Milestone A activities, an enabling concept should
       support the product center’s concept exploration and refinement process and feed
       development of the architecture products and Analysis of Alternatives reports
       required to successfully validate needs through the Joint Capabilities Integration and
       Development System (JCIDS). It is the source for the Operational View-1 (OV-1)
       and provides operational context to develop additional architecture products required
       by requirements documents. The enabling concept clearly shows the linkage from
       operator/warfighter needs to proposed solutions. Concepts support the AoA in terms
       of capability (military utility), schedule, cost (to include savings/return on investment,
       cost avoidance, etc.) and risk. For each alternative, a concept will describe the details
       of the employment of the alternative as it will function within the envisioned
       operating environment. Following the approval of a proposed materiel solution at
       Milestone A, the concept document should be updated to reflect more specific details
       of the capability. This is where the concept begins to evolve into a solution-centric
       description, and begins to approximate requirements for the system (or non-materiel
       solution) that will ultimately result. The concept will form the basis for developing
       each succeeding requirements document (e.g., a Capability Development Document
       (CDD)), and provide the operator’s influence through each of the acquisition phases
       to support the related development activities and milestone decisions.
    1.3.2. Operating Concepts.
       1.3.2.1. As the natural evolution of an enabling concept, Air Force Space Command
       operating concepts describe specific capabilities that will be fielded. As a program
       completes critical design review (CDR) and begins production, the concept author
       must provide top-level guidance to the eventual operators on what will be included in
       the delivery and how the capabilities can be employed to achieve desired effects. A
       complete operating concept provides sufficient information to allow the operators to
       shape manning and personnel planning, and develop or update tactics, techniques and
       procedures (TTPs), technical orders, and/or warfighter CONOPS. At this point in
       development, many (if not all) of the specifics of the new capability ―system‖ are
       final. The concept author must now expand on the content, showing in concrete terms
       what specific capabilities are being brought to the fight, and how they will integrate
       with existing infrastructures/systems. The author also must now precisely define
       specific mission contributions and command relationships. Additionally, the concept
       must refine the potential future threats/risks to the capabilities (if applicable) and
       identify specific means to mitigate these threats/risks.
AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011                                                                   5


         1.3.2.2. Operating concepts, along with validated requirements documentation, will
         serve as the foundational documents for testing and evaluation, and subsequent
         system modification or upgrade efforts. They will also serve as the source
         documentation for joint force, C-NAF, and wing commanders in developing their
         respective CONOPS.
  1.4. Concept Drivers. Several things can drive the need to produce a concept document.
  National guidance, warfighter lessons learned, new partnerships, AFSPC IPP-identified
  gaps/shortfalls, entering a Requirements Strategy Review, research and development,
  acquisition community experience, and even new TTPs for using existing systems can all
  drive a need to write a concept. In short, if the command expends time and resources towards
  developing a system or capability, there should be a concept underpinning those efforts.
     1.4.1. Guidance. National level guidance is contained in documents such as the National
     Security Strategy and National Defense Strategy, while DoD guidance is contained in
     documents such as the National Military Strategy and Strategic Planning Guidance. Air
     Force Space Command derives additional direction from the Quadrennial Defense
     Review (QDR), the Guidance for the Development of the Force, the Guidance for the
     Employment of the Force, the Unified Command Plan, Theater Security Cooperation
     Plans, Combatant Commander Integrated Priority Lists, the family of Joint Operations
     Concepts (JOpsC), Joint Doctrine, and the United States Air Force (USAF) Strategic
     Planning Directive, AF Core Function Master Plans (CFMP), Annual Planning and
     Programming Guidance, Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) Vision Statements, AF
     Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment (CRRA) Report, AF-level concepts, AFSPC
     plans and others.
     1.4.2. AF Capability Based Planning (CBP). The overall AF CBP process drives the
     creation of most AFSPC-developed concepts. The Air Force identifies key capabilities in
     the overarching AF-level concepts. The Air Staff then vets these capabilities through the
     CRRA process, which results in a list of needed capabilities and identified deficiencies
     (known as ―gaps‖ and ―shortfalls‖ respectively). The combination of CRRA-required
     capabilities and deficiencies, needs identified by partner agencies (intelligence
     community, civil agencies, etc.), and the AFSPC functional concepts, form the key inputs
     to the AFSPC strategic planning process: the IPP. Existing enabling and operating
     concepts provide information on projected capabilities into this process. Teams then
     begin to identify the most cost-effective combination of programs, systems,
     technologically feasible future concepts and acquisition schedules to satisfy the needs
     over the planning horizon, within a realistic funding profile. The output of the IPP is
     documented in the Space Superiority and Cyberspace Superiority CFMPs, which identify
     the capability gaps and shortfalls that must be filled through modernization. Figure 1
     depicts where the various AFSPC concepts fit with respect to the IPP cycle. Note:
     enabling and operating concepts serve as both inputs to the IPP (in that approved
     concepts help define what capabilities we are currently working on), and as needed
     documents driven by IPP products (in response to an identified shortfall or gap).
 6                                                              AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011


Figure 1.1. Concepts in the AFSPC Capability Development Process.




      1.4.3. Development Planning. Product centers conduct a pre-acquisition, systems-
      engineering process to generate ideas, explore concepts (i.e., potential materiel solutions)
      and transition promising candidates into development efforts that address validated
      capability gaps and shortfalls. Once an idea is matched to an identified gap/shortfall,
      initial concept exploration determines whether the idea has merit for further study
      (technical maturity, military utility, etc.). If not understood, the product center may seek
      an initial enabling concept to provide the operational context for the needed capability to
      help evaluate military utility. Note: any concept work in support of pre-Milestone A
      activities does not indicate a command preference of a particular solution (i.e., a
      ―preferred materiel solution,‖ or ―preferred system concept‖). Based upon resources and
      priorities, promising ideas are further developed (through detailed modeling, simulation,
      analysis, demonstration, etc.), and may lead to initial system development. If not
      previously completed, enabling concept development must begin to support anticipated
      Pre-Milestone A activities (Concept Characterization and Technical Description,
      Capabilities-Based Assessment, AoA, Joint Capability Technology Demonstrations, etc.).
      The potential solution may describe a new system, or modifications to an existing system,
      along with enabling technologies and available science and technology (S&T) resources
      that could meet the need(s). Following successful development planning and vetting in an
      AoA, whereby the idea evolves into a solution, the product center will either integrate
      development activities into an existing program management office (typical for follow-on
      systems, such as GPS III), or establish a new one.
AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011                                                                      7


2. Concept Content and Format. This section provides guidance for AFSPC concept
document development. The basic format remains the same as the document matures, however,
as the concept evolves, so does the level of detail.
   2.1. General. Air Force Policy Directive 10-28 says that concepts should be ―succinct‖ and
   ―to the point.‖ Concepts simply state an idea in operational terms. They are not, by
   themselves, advocacy documents, nor are they specifications—so more length does not
   necessarily make them better. The format listed below is designed to guide authors in
   creating concepts that are complete and compliant with AF direction. Do not deviate from the
   format unless absolutely necessary, but always confer with AFSPC/A5X prior to any
   deviation. Place very detailed or lengthy information in an appendix, but only if necessary
   and pertinent to the purpose of the document. Uniform, high-quality, substance and style
   across the entire library of AFSPC concept documents will help the command effectively and
   consistently communicate to all concept readers.
   2.2. Document Markings. In addition to following applicable security classification guides,
   follow DOD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, when classifying and marking
   concept documents. Consider all relevant Critical Information Lists when assessing your
   document. Note: ―For Official Use Only‖ (FOUO) documents must be portion-marked to
   indicate ―material which may be withheld from the public because disclosure would cause a
   foreseeable harm to an interest protected by one or more FOIA exemptions…,‖ as listed in
   the regulation.
   2.3. Document Content. Refer to the AFSPC CONOPS/Concepts website on the AF Portal
   to see format templates, guidelines, examples, and the approved concept library (full URL is
   listed in Attachment 1). Note: You will need to login initially to the AF Portal to access the
   above page. Attachment 3 lists the main content section headings described below.
      2.3.1. Purpose. The Purpose section is simply a short description of what the document is
      intended to do. It is not a description of what the envisioned capabilities will do (that
      comes later). This section also mentions the specific process need, or ―driver,‖ the
      document fulfills (e.g., support to a Milestone Decision Authority Decision, Commander
      direction, etc.). Consider what the intended recipient(s) will do with the document and/or
      what activities the concept will inform. Initially, it may be to stimulate thought and
      common understanding of how the command might satisfy a warfighter need. Later, it
      may support the development of specific operational requirements, inform test planning,
      or it may describe the operation of a soon-to-be fielded system. A concept may have
      more than one purpose. Revise the purpose(s) as the concept matures through
      implementation.
      2.3.2. Background. (Heading only)
          2.3.2.1. General. This subsection contains the minimal amount of additional
          information to allow the reader to understand any context not specifically addressed
          elsewhere. This may include why the idea expressed in the concept exists (e.g.,
          emerging military problems/threats, advances in technology, new ways to deal with
          existing military problems, etc.), ―how we got here,‖ etc. Provide any information
          that bounds the scope of the topic if needed. Limit the general background discussion
          to no more than two pages, excluding diagrams.
8                                                             AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011


       2.3.2.2. Description of the Military Challenge(s). This section encapsulates the
       operational ―why‖ of the concept. Use this section to specify the fundamental
       problem to be solved (i.e., warfare, not technical, aspects). Example: a concept may
       describe a challenge in providing continuous surveillance coverage on a great number
       of hard-to-detect items-of-interest over a vast area. This subsection should also
       describe projected threats/enemy capabilities that contribute to the challenges to be
       overcome (e.g., adversary’s offensive space control or cyberspace capabilities, orbital
       debris, environmental conditions). In coordination with the A2 staff, determine any
       applicable threat documents and reference them in this section. Finally, having listed
       the fundamental challenge(s), if applicable, briefly describe limitations in our ability
       to meet those fundamental challenge(s) using existing approaches and solutions.
       2.3.2.3. Desired Effects. List the desired operational effects for achieving military
       objectives. Explain the Commander’s intent. In many cases, a concept may strive to
       create interim or supporting effects that lead to the ultimately desired effects. Review
       specific desired effects contained in the next-higher-level concept(s), CONOPS,
       Combatant Commander (CCDR) operational plans, or Joint Urgent Operational
       Needs, for ideas.
       2.3.2.4. Relationship(s) to Other Concepts. All AFSPC concept documents must
       identify effects and capabilities that address those described in at least one of the
       higher-level concepts. Example: An enabling concept will ―link‖ to at least one
       functional concept which, in turn, provides the linkage to the overarching AF-level
       concepts. Likewise, the AF-level concepts have direct linkage to the JOpsC family.
       This linkage ensures all concepts seek to solve warfighter capability needs, which are
       ultimately validated by the Joint Requirements Oversight Council. In short, this is one
       way the command tangibly shows how its efforts ultimately support the warfighter.
       Consider using a tailored version of the diagram at Attachment 2 to illustrate.
    2.3.3. Situation. (Heading Only) As general guidance, keep the discussion focused. For
    example, one could imagine hundreds of constraints, assumptions, and risks, but the
    intent is to highlight only those that have a direct and substantial bearing on the concept.
       2.3.3.1. Time Horizon. This short ―section‖ simply states when the envisioned
       capabilities are expected to be used for operations. This is the ―when‖ of the concept,
       and useful for synchronizing and planning capability efforts. It is not the timeframe,
       or plan, for developing the capability. This section can be as short as one or two
       sentences.
       2.3.3.2. Constraints. Constraints are self-imposed restrictions on potential solutions
       for, or implementations of, the concept. These limitations may be due to factors
       external or internal to AFSPC, such as legacy solutions/systems & infrastructure,
       policy, doctrine, organizational roles and responsibilities (current and projected),
       regulatory requirements, etc. Focus the constraints listed in enabling concepts on
       those factors that will limit possible solutions. Focus those listed in operating
       concepts on factors that limit the use of identified or to-be-delivered solutions.
       2.3.3.3. Assumptions. Appropriate assumptions meet all of the following criteria: 1)
       likely—but not certain—future conditions; 2) factors outside the Command’s areas of
       responsibility; and 3) necessary to keep the concept valid. Assumptions are not
AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011                                                                       9


        ―facts,‖ nor are they program decisions. Example: a concept might assume (require)
        a change in policy in order to implement the concept. ―Funding,‖ however, is a
        common mistaken assumption. (While a program cannot exist without funding, an
        underlying concept is valid or invalid irrespective of funding. In other words
        ―adequate funding‖ is a decision (that is, officials decide whether or not to fund a
        program), but not an assumption upon which the concept relies.) Briefly explain any
        assumptions that are required for bounding and successfully implementing the
        concept.
        2.3.3.4. Risks. Describe risks of any type (operational, technological, or
        organizational) that may influence successful concept development and execution.
        Example: ―failure to achieve a needed technological advance‖ is a valid risk. Also
        include potential or known ways of mitigating each risk. Focus this discussion on
        noteworthy risks, as it is unnecessary to describe anything and everything that could
        conceivably go wrong.
     2.3.4. Synopsis. Provide a high-level description of the fundamental concept, including
     major capabilities to be employed, and how they will be used to accomplish the desired
     effects. This section encapsulates the ―central idea‖ of the concept. It captures the essence
     of the ―what‖ and the ―how‖ of the concept in the most fundamental terms possible that
     retain practical meaning. Describe key elements and how they interface. Use a graphic
     representation, OV-1, per the current DoD Architecture Framework, to complement the
     description (see paragraph 2.3 for link to examples on AF Portal). Identify the conditions
     under which the mission(s) will be achieved. Make clear the focus of the mission(s): Is it
     global in nature? Is it strategic or tactical? Is it operational or supporting?
     2.3.5. Necessary and Enabling Capabilities. (Heading only.)
        2.3.5.1. Necessary Capabilities. Necessary capabilities describe the means by which
        one may accomplish a task. For this section, provide a separate subparagraph for
        each capability, beginning with a concise, bold-font heading. Each description should
        include what comprises the capability and what it does to achieve the desired effects.
        Some capabilities consist of sub-capabilities and should be written in an organized
        hierarchy. If a capability pertains only to a certain type of operation within the range
        of military operations (as described in JP 3-0, Joint Operations), state it. See example
        capability descriptions in Attachment 4.
            2.3.5.1.1. Functional concepts should contain broad capabilities—or capability
            areas—without defining specific systems or organizations to operate them. Write
            each necessary capability in such a manner that it can be evaluated in the IPP (i.e.,
            each capability can be assigned attributes and measures consistent with value-
            based decision analysis).
            2.3.5.1.2. Enabling concepts describe capabilities with a bit more detail than
            those listed in the functional concepts, but also without preemptively defining a
            specific system/solution. Of course some concepts may involve already-fielded
            capabilities, so it is appropriate to mention specific solutions in this regard.
            Include an overarching discussion of any special supportability, survivability, and
            protection measures or features that the set of capabilities will have to mitigate the
            threat(s) listed earlier in the document.
10                                                               AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011


            2.3.5.1.3. Operating concepts describe necessary capabilities that will be
            delivered. Think of necessary capabilities as the main ―feature set.‖ Describe
            them in terms of what they can do, and in what conditions, without defining
            specific procedures. The goal is to provide enough detail in the descriptions to
            enable the development of tactics, techniques, procedures, and CONOPS at the
            warfighter level.
            2.3.5.1.4. Finally, list the main capabilities in this section with associated
            capabilities called out in the next-higher-level concept(s) (at a minimum) using a
            Capability Traceability Matrix as an Appendix (see format at Attachment 5). In
            other words, enabling and operating concept capabilities trace to functional
            concept capabilities; functional concept capabilities trace to AF-level concepts. A
            higher-level-concept capability may appear multiple times.
        2.3.5.2. Enabling Capabilities. This section contains capability descriptions for those
        that are essential for the successful execution of the concept, but are not directly
        related to the objectives. In other words, these fall outside the scope of this concept,
        but perhaps in the scope of another. Example: ―spacelift‖ is an enabling capability
        for a space-based concept, and ―wideband communications‖ might be an enabling
        capability for an Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) concept.
        Follow the same content guidelines given above for necessary capabilities. Use brief,
        separate subparagraphs for each capability, providing enough information to convey
        the extent to which this concept relies on it. Example: for a net-centric, data-sharing
        enabling capability, describe how envisioned necessary capabilities will connect to
        the net-centric enterprise and what will be offered to, and taken from, that enterprise.
            2.3.5.2.1. If known, concept authors will identify resources such as facilities,
            command and control, infrastructure, installation support services, force
            protection, and others as enabling capabilities. Just about all concepts require a
            trained workforce as an enabler, not only in the operating unit, but possibly in
            associated organizations as well (e.g., OSS, standardization and evaluation, the
            Joint Space Operations Center, 624 OC). As concepts mature, identify needed
            infrastructure/personnel (e.g., facilities, staffing needs, required skill sets, etc.) to
            ensure proper insertion in planning and programming processes. Remember that a
            concept that calls for an increase in facilities and infrastructure will generate an
            increase in manpower/workload. Be as specific as possible when writing or
            updating these areas.
     2.3.6. Sequenced Actions. This section describes how the capabilities will be used in a
     logical flow of high-level events, usually from start to finish (i.e., summarize a ―day in
     the life‖ of the concept). Use operational scenarios—or use cases—to organize this
     discussion, unless impractical. Be as specific as possible, using the present tense, and
     illustrate as needed. The goal is to help clearly communicate operator expectations. If you
     lack specifics, use relative and qualitative descriptions instead. Example: ―unit X then
     verifies and publishes ―capability/process Y‖ data within 24 hours of ―task Z‖
     completion.‖
        2.3.6.1. When preparing this section, map-out who the main participants are (by
        organization and/or by position, as appropriate to the maturity of the concept), what
AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011                                                                    11


        they will do or provide, and what they will need or depend upon (e.g., products,
        actions) from the other participants. It is essential to understand these relationships
        before completing this section in order to make sure the concept “works.‖ The
        operational scenarios should reflect this analysis. Specify if the use of a capability
        varies based on the type of operation (e.g., military engagement, security cooperation,
        deterrence activities, crisis response, limited contingency operations, and major
        operations).
        2.3.6.2. Include supporting actions. These may include, but are not limited to, the
        following (i.e., omit those that do not apply and add those that are not represented):
        mission planning; training; mission readiness and reporting; security; intelligence
        support; and redeployment/end-of-life activities. Again, these are illustrative, and
        may not be inclusive of all the supporting actions involved in using the capabilities
        listed in the concept.
        2.3.6.3. Other considerations for describing sequenced actions include planned
        interactions with existing, developing, or planned operational systems. Describe how
        this capability will integrate, interface, or work with other systems. Again, provide
        details commensurate with the maturity of the document. For example, an initial
        enabling concept may merely identify the other systems and broad types of data
        exchanged, whereas an operating concept should include more specific descriptions
        of the interfaces to be employed.
     2.3.7. Command Relationships. Identify the organizations, if known, or the type of
     organizations that will employ the envisioned capabilities and their roles. Commensurate
     with the maturity of the concept, first describe envisioned command authorities in the
     ―operational branch‖ of the chain of command (combatant command (COCOM),
     operational control (OPCON), and tactical control (TACON)), and then describe
     organizations, authorities and relationships in the ―administrative branch‖ of the chain of
     command. While many capabilities fall under a common command-and-control (C2)
     arrangement, this section should focus on the specific command authorities applicable to
     the concept. If known, define the C2 elements involved and interfaces between the
     organizations necessary to employ the capability. If applicable, include the role of AFRC
     and/or ANG units. If applicable, also explain who produces and executes Rules of
     Engagement, and by what authority. This section should also explain envisioned, key
     supporting and supported relationships.
     2.3.8. Appendices. Include the following:
        2.3.8.1. Appendix A. List of references. Generally limit this to titles and dates of
        material actually referenced in, or used to create, the concept. Do not ―pad‖ this list
        with every document conceivably associated with the subject.
        2.3.8.2. Appendix B. Glossary of terms, abbreviations and acronyms. Limit to
        specialized terms, subject-related abbreviations, and acronyms (omitting common
        ones).
        2.3.8.3. Appendix C. Capability Traceability Matrix (per paragraph 2.3.5.1.4.)
        2.3.8.4. Additional information. Use subsequent appendices for detailed and/or
        supporting information related to portions in the main body.
 12                                                            AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011


       2.3.9. Annexes. Use an annex for material that can be separated from the main document
       yet retain practical meaning (i.e., stands alone). An annex should follow the concept
       format.
3. Concept Development/Approval Process. This section provides more guidance on AFSPC
concept development from tasking (initiation phase) through final approval. As stated above, as
the concept matures, it may change significantly. Write/update, coordinate and get the concept
approved to support each milestone decision as described in the DoD 5000 series documents.
   3.1. Concept Driver. It is critical that Command Leads and their staffs identify the need—or
   driver—for developing a concept, along with the need date. Suffice to say, if the
   headquarters is developing capabilities for a given area, there should be an approved
   concept—generally an AFSPC concept—underpinning that work. Generally, AFSPC-
   identified shortfalls and gaps drive a need to have a concept. Concepts may also originate
   from any HQ AFSPC, NAF, Wing, Air Staff, or unified commander organization. Command
   Leads are responsible for developing concepts that fall within their relevant core capability
   area.
   3.2. Drafting.
       3.2.1. Preparation. The Action Officer (AO) conducts research to determine the purpose
       and content for the elements discussed in paragraph 2.3 of this AFSPCI. Outlining is
       strongly recommended. Good sources of information include: Joint, AF, and functional
       concepts, related enabling and operating concepts, doctrine, and the CFMPs. Note:
       Before starting work on a concept, the AO must meet with the concepts staff in the
       AFSPC/A5 Policy and Integration Division, Policy and Process Branch (A5XR) for a
       concept development strategy session. As the command clearinghouse for AFSPC
       concepts, A5XR can provide guidance on how to best approach specific concepts. They
       also track the status of concepts in development on behalf of the A5 and A3, so it is
       necessary to advise them of planned and in-progress concepts.
       3.2.2. Initial Draft. The AO should then organize members of their capability team to
       develop the concept strawman into a first draft. Conducting short (one-to-two day)
       writing conferences with only a few participants is an effective technique. Select team
       members based on area of expertise, and invite representation from the NAFs, product
       center(s), Wings, other Major Commands (MAJCOMs), unified commands, sister
       Services, etc., as needed. Work with the capability team Chief Architect to develop an
       OV-1, if necessary. Keep the applicable product center (e.g., SMC, ESC) informed
       during drafting and coordination. Once a workable draft is completed, send it to
       AFSPC/A5XR for review prior to initial coordination. Note: While the document is in
       draft form, use margin line numbers and mark the top and bottom of all pages ―DRAFT –
       NOT FOR IMPLEMENTATION OR COMPLIANCE‖.
   3.3. Staffing & Coordination. Staff the document widely among those offices having
   possible interest or responsibility, now or in the future.
       3.3.1. Three-letter coordination. Coordinate widely, but not unnecessarily. At a
       minimum, AFSPC/A1M, A5X, A7S and A8X must be included in 3-letter (O-6 level)
       coordination. The applicable product center is also required on the coordination sheet —
       ―for coordination‖ or ―for information,‖ as applicable. Coordinate with AFSPC/JA to
AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011                                                                     13


     identify the potential for legal impediments in the concept timeframe. Component-NAFs
     will typically coordinate with subordinate wings. Note: AFSPC concepts that envision
     the use of Air Reserve Component (ARC) and/or National Guard forces require 3-letter
     coordination with AFSPC/CG/CR, HQ AFRC and/or National Guard Bureau (NGB) (as
     applicable) prior to concept approval and publication. (See paragraph 4.10. for specific
     guidance.) If, as a result of 3-letter coordination, the document changes substantially, 3-
     letter coordination must be re-accomplished so all offices can see the resulting,
     substantially changed document. All substantive/critical comments should be reconciled
     with the submitting office prior to performing 2-letter coordination. This will minimize
     surprises and excessive comments during 2-letter coordination.
     3.3.2. Two-letter coordination. The draft concept offered for 2-letter (General Officer
     level) coordination should be error-free and fully compliant with the content and format
     guidance listed in paragraph 2. Ensure AFSPC/A5X reviews the concept before your
     Director sends it out for 2-letter coordination. Indicate on the AF Form 1768, Staff
     Summary Sheet, ―Views of Others‖ paragraph that ―A5X has coordinated on this draft.‖
  3.4. Approval. The OPR prepares the document for final review/signatures by the approving
  authorities. At this point, all critical and substantive comments should have been resolved.
  List four signatures, in pairs, on the signature page: Submitted by (Command Lead and
  Deputy Command Lead); and Approved by (AFSPC/A3 and AFSPC/A5). (See concept
  template on portal page.) The AFSPC/A3 and the AFSPC/A5 are co-approving authorities
  for enabling concepts and operating concepts. Include HQ AFSPC/A5X for coordination on
  the Staff Summary Sheet transmitting the document for signature, which will initiate a final,
  post-2-letter, A5X review prior to approval.
  3.5. Distribution. The OPR is responsible for distributing the signed document. The OPR
  must also forward a copy of the master file to AFSPC/A5XR for inclusion in the command
  concepts repository. The repository is intended to be a readily available reference for
  accessing all current CONOPS/concept documents and guidance for development of
  additional concept documents. AFSPC/A5XR ensures included documents are updated as
  required via recurring data calls/database updates. Unclassified concepts will be posted to the
  AFSPC CONOPS/Concepts web page (see hyperlink included in paragraph 2.3 and URL
  listed in Attachment 1). Classified concepts will be posted on the Concepts Branch SIPRNET
  web page, www.afspc.af.smil.mil/A5XR. For concepts that envision the use of ARC forces,
  the OPR for the concept will contact the AFSPC Reserve Forces and/or Air National Guard
  Directorate(s) to determine the appropriate distribution. The OPR will maintain the electronic
  staff package, staff summary sheet (SSS) or official memorandums used to coordinate and
  obtain approval with the master document.
  3.6. Reviews and Updates. The Command Lead normally reviews concept documents
  biennially, or at each new acquisition milestone. If, in the judgment of the OPR, only minor
  or administrative changes are required, the AO may incorporate those changes and have the
  Command Lead forward the document to A3 and A5 for approval. The responsible
  Command Lead signs a Memorandum for Record (MFR) to document the concept was
  reviewed and any significant findings. The MFR should be filed with the basic document
  working file. If the document requires significant changes, the AO must accomplish the
  coordination as described in paragraph 3.3. It is strongly recommended to have the A5XR
  concepts team review the 3-letter draft prior to forwarding it for 3-letter coordination. The
 14                                                             AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011


   OPR must ensure widest dissemination of the document to applicable offices/agencies. In
   either case, a new cover sheet for the concept must be generated to reflect the revised date.
   3.7. Guidance Changes. Existing concepts need not be rewritten solely to comply with
   updates to this policy guidance; but as they come up for periodic review through their normal
   life cycle, they should be brought into compliance with this guidance.
4. Responsibilities.
   4.1. Command Leads. Headquarters AFSPC Command Leads are responsible for developing
   and staffing enabling and operating concepts. Members of Command Lead Capability Teams
   will review all IPP products for capabilities, shortfalls, gaps and deficiencies requiring
   concept development. Capability teams will develop initial enabling concepts to support a
   product center’s potential solution (―concept‖) development in support of the IPP. Command
   Leads will:
       4.1.1. Ensure capability teams request a concept development strategy session with A5X
       prior to the start of any concept development effort.
       4.1.2. Ensure capability teams report current concept status information to AFSPC/A5
       and AFSPC/A5X as documents undergo development and staffing (see paragraph 3.3).
       4.1.3. Ensure draft concepts receive a final, post 2-ltr review by AFSPC/A5X prior to
       submitting the document for AFSPC/A3/A5 signatures.
       4.1.4. Have an approved enabling or operating concept before requesting (thru
       AFSPC/A5XR) a Requirements Strategy Review (RSR) with AF/A5R. The A5 may
       waive this policy on a case-by-case basis.
   4.2. Director of Air, Space and Cyberspace Operations (HQ AFSPC/A3). AFSPC/A3 has co-
   responsibility (with the A5) for approving AFSPC enabling and operating concept
   documents. AFSPC/A3-assigned staff, as members of Capability Teams, will contribute to
   concept development and staffing.
   4.3. Director of Requirements (HQ AFSPC/A5). AFSPC/A5 has co-responsibility (with the
   A3) for approving AFSPC enabling and operating concepts. AFSPC/A5-assigned staff, as
   members of Capability Teams, will contribute to concept development and staffing. A5XR is
   the AFSPC OPR for concept development policy, guidance, procedures and oversight.
   4.4. Director of Plans, Programs, and Analyses (HQ AFSPC/A8/9). AFSPC/A8/9 has overall
   responsibility for the IPP and CFMPs. These identify potential deficiencies and needed future
   AFSPC capabilities, which drive the need to develop associated concepts. The A8/9 staff is
   responsible for AFSPC functional concept development, and will use the necessary
   capabilities defined in the functional concepts and other enabling concepts as inputs into IPP
   as the near-term and far-term tasks. The A8/9 staff also reviews enabling and operating
   concepts for linkage to functional concepts as part of various planning activities.
   4.5. Director of Manpower, Personnel & Services (HQ AFSPC/A1). AFSPC/A1 is
   responsible for validating the manpower requirement for AFSPC concepts via a Manpower
   Assessment (MA) to ensure accurate planning and programming of manpower resources.
   AFSPC/A1 will also develop a Manpower Estimate Report (MER) for major weapon systems
   during the appropriate acquisition milestones outlined in AF directives. However, A1 will
   only develop MA and MER submissions for capabilities/systems with an approved concept.
AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011                                                                       15


  4.6. Director of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (HQ AFSPC/A2). AFSPC/A2
  has overall responsibility for integration of intelligence requirements and adversary
  capabilities consideration into all phases of AFSPC planning. As such, the appropriate A2
  division must be involved in the concept development process. AFSPC/A2-assigned staff, as
  members of Capability Teams, will contribute to concept development and staffing.
  4.7. Director of Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (HQ AFSPC/A4/7).
  AFSPC/A4/7 has overall responsibility for installation support services, infrastructure
  operations and maintenance, force protection, security, emergency services and contract
  support. As such, the appropriate A4/7 division(s) must be involved in concept development
  early in the process to ensure logistics, security and civil engineering support activities are
  properly identified.
  4.8. Director of Communication and Information (HQ AFSPC/A6). AFSPC/A6 is
  responsible for AFSPC Enterprise Architecture and Net-Centric Transformation. The A6 also
  serves as the Designated Accrediting Authority for AF space systems and for the AF-
  provisioned portion of the GIG. In addition, AFI 33-401, Implementing Air Force
  Architectures, directs the application architecture products in support of capability based
  planning and programming. As such, the appropriate A6 division will support concept
  development. The A6 roles and responsibilities also include providing guidance for the
  architectural views for the command’s concepts and risk-based assessments on those
  concepts. AFSPC/A6-assigned staff, as members of Capability Teams, will contribute to
  concept development and staffing.
  4.9. Office of the Staff Judge Advocate (HQ AFSPC/JA). The Office of the Staff Judge
  Advocate for the drafting organization will consult with the concept developer during
  drafting, three- and two- letter coordination, as necessary, regarding possible legal issues that
  may impede concept execution.
  4.10. HQ AFSPC/CG/CR (Air National Guard/Reserve Forces Directorates).
  AFSPC/CG/CR, in concert with AFSPC/A1, will serve as the conduit between AFSPC and
  the appropriate ARC headquarters. CG/CR will review AFSPC concepts (during all
  coordination phases) that envision the use of Air Reserve Component forces and will work
  with National Guard Bureau and/or HQ AFRC, respectively, to ensure appropriate
  coordination and awareness.
  4.11. Product Centers. The Electronic Systems and Space and Missile Systems Centers
  participate in the Capability Solutions Analysis portion of the IPP. The SMC, with SMC/XR
  as the primary interface, will use the results of the Capability Needs Analysis and any
  accompanying enabling concepts, to propose potential solutions to identified capability needs
  and apply them to the product center Development Plans. Development Plans, which are
  vetted through concept assessment seminars, are provided as inputs to the IPP and MAJCOM
  Program Element Monitors (PEMs). Other product centers may also propose potential
  solutions.
  4.12. Space Innovation and Development Center (SIDC). The SIDC participates in the
  development of potential solutions to identified capability needs, and should be involved
  very early in the concept development process to provide perspectives on potential
  operational approaches. With its responsibilities to support tactics development and the
  development of innovative uses of fielded capabilities, the SIDC provides subject matter
 16                                                           AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011


   expertise to develop new concepts for employing existing systems to meet emerging
   warfighter needs."
   4.13. Air Force Network Integration Center (AFNIC).
      4.13.1. Provides subject matter expertise for cyberspace concept development activities
      as needed. Serves as integral members of the AFSPC Cyberspace Capability Teams to
      drive integration of assigned programs and develop AFNet architecture products as
      required in conjunction with the product center in development of JCIDS products.
      Supports HQ AFSPC in development of cyberspace domain architectures.
      4.13.2. AFNIC Requirement Leads will lead concept development efforts on behalf of
      the appropriate cyberspace capability Command Lead for the programs/projects they are
      assigned.
      4.13.3. AFNIC is the AF Defense Information Systems Network subject matter expert
      for long-haul communications. As such, AFNIC will ensure concepts documents consider
      these critical links to ensure interoperability and sustainment of DoD systems.
   4.14. Numbered Air Forces (NAF). As operational-level warfare organizations, AFSPC
   NAFs provide key insight into the command and control of space and cyberspace forces.
   Numbered Air Force Commanders may task their staff to develop concepts for activities to
   be accomplished within their command. They also provide consolidated unit-level reviews
   and coordination for other concepts in development or revision.
   4.15. AFSPC Wings. AFSPC wings provide invaluable, current operations perspectives that
   are vital to well-constructed concepts. Bear in mind, however, concepts are forward-looking,
   so tradition and current practices should not unduly restrict concept authors. Wing
   Commanders may task their staff to develop concepts for activities to be accomplished
   within the Wing. Following Wing coordination, the concept will be coordinated with the
   appropriate NAF for approval. When coordinating on concept documents originating from
   higher headquarters, the Wing Commander will forward comments to the NAF for
   consolidation.
5. Concept Release Policy. Multi-command, multi-service, and Joint concept document
initiatives require concurrence of all users before such documents may be released. Draft
documents released prior to AFSPC approval must clearly state that they do not necessarily
reflect AFSPC policy or approval and are subject to change.
6. AFSPC Portal Page. For more information, please review our AFSPC portal page at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId=s6925EC1344B60FB5E0440800
20E329A9&pageId=0.




                                           JAMES E. HAYWOOD, Brig Gen, USAFDirector
                                           of Requirements
AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011                                                                  17


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
CJCSI 3170.01G, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 1 March 2009
DoDD 5000.1, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
DoDI 5000.2, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 2 December 2008
DOD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, 14 January 1997
DoD Architecture Framework, Version 2.0 Volumes 1 & 2, 28 May 2009
JP 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 12 April 2001 as
amended through 4 March 2008
JP 3-0, Joint Operations, 17 September 2006, Incorporating Change 1, 13 February 2008
JP 5-0, Joint Operation Planning, 26 December 2006
AFPD 10-28, Air Force Concept Development, 15 September 2003
AFI 10-604, Capabilities-Based Planning, 10 May 2006
AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), 18 October 2007
AFI 10-2801, Air Force Concept of Operations Development, 24 October 2005
AFI 16-701, Special Access Programs, 1 November 1995
AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program (FOUO), 1 March 2003
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 33-401, Implementing Air Force Architectures, 14 March 2007
AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information, 30 August 2002
AFMAN 14-304 (FOUO), The Security, Use, and Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented
Information, 1 May 1999
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFSPCI 10-604, Space Operations Weapon System Management, 1 October 2007
AFSPCHOI 10-1, Capabilities-Based Operational Requirements Guidance, 3 October 2005
Defense Adaptive Red Team, A Practical Guide for Developing and Writing Military Concepts,
Working Paper #02-4, December 2002

Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet
 18                                                       AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFSPCHOI—Air Force Space Command Headquarters Operating Instruction
AFSPCI—Air Force Space Command Instruction
ANG—Air National Guard
AO—Action Officer
AoA—Analysis of Alternatives
ARC—Air Reserve Component
C2—Command and Control
CBP—Capabilities Based Planning
CCDR—Combatant Commander
CCJO—Capstone Concept for Joint Operations
CDD—Capability Development Document
CDR—Critical Design Review
CFMP—Core Function Master Plan
CIO—Chief Information Officer
C-NAF—Component Numbered Air Force
COA—Course of Action
COCOM—Combatant Command (command authority)
CONOPS—Concepts of Operation (also called commander’s concept)
CPD—Capability Production Document
CRRA—Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DAS—Defense Acquisition System
DOTMLPF—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel,
and Facilities
ESC—Electronic Systems Center
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011                                     19


HHQ—Higher Headquarters
ICD—Initial Capabilities Document
IPL—Integrated Priority List
IPP—Integrated Planning Process
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JFC—Joint Force Commander
JIC—Joint Integrating Concept
JLLIS—Joint Lessons Learned Information System
JOC—Joint Operating Concept
JOpsC—Joint Operations Concepts
JP—Joint Publication
JSpOC—Joint Space Operations Center
JUON—Joint Urgent Operational Need
MA—Manpower Assessment
MAJCOM—Major Command
MER—Manpower Estimate Report
MFR—Memorandum for Record
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NGB—National Guard Bureau
OGV—Group—level Standards and Evaluation Office
OPCON—Operational Control
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
OSS—Operations Support Squadron
OV—Operational View
PEM—Program Element Monitor
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
QDR—Quadrennial Defense Review
S&T—Science and Technology
SIDC—Space Innovation and Development Center
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
 20                                                                AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011


SSS—Staff Summary Sheet
TACON—Tactical Control
TTPs—Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
UCP—Unified Command Plan
UJTL—Universal Joint Task List
USAF—United States Air Force
USSTRATCOM—United States Strategic Command

Terms
AF CONOPS (in process of supersession by “AF Operating Concepts”)— Delineates the
highest Service-level concept comprising a commander’s assumptions and intent to achieve
desired effects through the guided integration of capabilities and tasks that solve a problem in an
expected mission area. Although titled CONOPS, AF-level CONOPS closely resemble
strategic-level operating concepts – describe how to sequence air and space power operations
(capabilities) to exploit and achieve strategic objectives (effects) at the operational level, through
tactical successes. Reference AFI 10-2801.
Capability—The ability to achieve a desired effect under specified standards and conditions
through combinations of means and ways to perform a set of tasks. It is defined by an
operational user and expressed in broad operational terms in the format of a joint or initial
capabilities document or a joint Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and
Education, Personnel, and Facilities (DOTMLPF) change recommendation. In the case of
materiel proposals, the definition will progressively evolve to DOTMLPF performance attributes
identified in the capability development document and the capability production document.
Reference CJCSI 3170.01G, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System.
Concept of Operations—A verbal or graphic statement that clearly and concisely expresses
what the joint force commander intends to accomplish and how it will be done using available
resources. The concept is designed to give an overall picture of the operation. Also called
commander’s concept or CONOPS. Reference JP 1-02.
Concepts—A description (written or graphic) of the ways (sequenced actions) in which we
employ military means (capabilities) to accomplish desired ends (effects). AFSPC concepts
describe, in operational terms, how the command intends to employ air and space power in
support of JOpsC family and national security and national military objectives. Concepts may
fall into any of four categories: Institutional, Operating, Functional, or Enabling. Reference
AFPD 10-28.
Effects—A full range of outcomes, events, or consequences of a particular action or set of
actions. The action can derive from any element of power (economic, political, military,
diplomatic, or informational), and may occur at any point across the continuum from peace to
global conflict.
Enabling Concept—Describes how a particular task or procedure is performed, within the
context of a broader functional area, using a particular capability, such as a specific technology,
training or education program, organization, facility, etc. An enabling concept describes the
AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011                                                                         21


accomplishment of a particular task that makes possible the performance of a broader military
function or sub-function. The JOpsC defines an enabling concept as, ―A description of how a set
of related military capabilities facilitate the accomplishment of particular tasks within the context
of a broader military function or more specific operating concept.‖ A concept describing a
surface moving target indicator would be an enabling concept supporting the Space Force
Enhancement Functional Concept. While still expressed in conceptual terms, enabling concepts
are the most specific of all military concepts. They should contain a level of guidance sufficient
to lead directly to the establishment of military requirements. Like the broader functional
concepts, enabling concepts usually apply to multiple, higher-level operating concepts, but may,
under certain circumstances, apply only to a specific operating concept.
Functional Concept—Describes the performance of individual Air Force functions as they
support operating concepts. Strategic and operational operating concepts supply the authoritative
guidance and context for functional concepts. Functional concepts generally cut broadly across
multiple operating concepts, though they can be specific to a single operating concept. Agile
logistics, command and control, force protection, and intelligence are examples of functional
concepts. In developing functional concepts, it's important to understand the potentially complex
linkages to other functional concepts (e.g., the linkages between a command and control concept
and an intelligence concept).
Institutional Concept—A description of the features and functioning of a military institution.
Also referred to as Operational Concepts or Capstone Concepts, Institutional Concepts describe
not only the operating policies of the institution, but also manpower, training, education,
materiel, morale and welfare, and other policies. Institutional Concepts are the highest-order of
all military concepts. They take guidance directly from the National Security Strategy and the
National Military Strategy, and provide context and guidance for all other military concepts.
Future institutional concepts are often promulgated as vision statements applying to some
specified future time horizon, such as the Capstone Concept for Joint Operations.
Operating Concept—A description in broad terms of the application of military art and science
within a defined set of parameters. In simplest terms, operating concepts articulate how a
commander will plan, prepare, deploy, employ or sustain a joint force against potential
adversaries within a specified set of conditions. Operating concepts encompass the full scope of
military actions required to achieve a specific set of objectives. The JOpsC family provides
further Joint Staff guidance on operating concepts. Operating concepts may be further stratified
as strategic, operational or tactical, relating to the associated levels of warfare, though specific
stratification is not as important as understanding the concepts' context and interrelationships.
Potential Solutions—Product Center-generated ―concepts‖ to satisfy deficiencies, gaps and
shortfalls identified by the IPP. These concepts use the IPP’s prioritized needs list as well as any
accompanying enabling concepts generated by HQ AFSPC to identify existing or future
capabilities/technologies that may solve warfighters’ capability shortfalls.
 22                                          AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011


                              Attachment 2
                             CONCEPT TYPES

Figure A2.1. Concept Types
AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011                                           23


                                        Attachment 3
                                   CONCEPT FORMAT

Figure A3.1. Concept Format
       1. Purpose
       2. Background
              2.1 General
              2.2 Description of the Military Challenge
              2.3 Desired Effects
              2.4 Relationship to other Concept(s)
       3. Situation
              3.1 Time Horizon
              3.2 Constraints
              3.3 Assumptions
              3.4 Risks
       4. Synopsis
       5. Necessary and Enabling Capabilities
              5.1 Necessary Capabilities
              5.2 Enabling Capabilities
       6. Sequenced Actions
       7. Command Relationships

       Appendix A: List of References
       Appendix B: Glossary of Terms, Abbreviations, and Acronyms
       Appendix C: Capability Traceability Matrix
 24                                                               AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011


                                          Attachment 4
                         EXAMPLE CAPABILITY DESCRIPTIONS

Figure A4.1. Example Capability Descriptions
                       Example Functional Concept Capability Description
Monitor Space Environmental Conditions. Provides operational environment information on
space environmental conditions, a term which includes the ionospheric and magnetospheric
regions. The intent is to enable friendly forces to predict, respond to, mitigate and exploit space
environmental effects on friendly and adversary operations. Capabilities include monitoring and
characterizing solar and interplanetary conditions and activities as well as cataloging natural
interplanetary space objects (i.e., those predicted to intersect Earth and Earth-orbiting satellite
orbits).

                        Example Enabling Concept Capability Description
Ability to develop/maintain situational awareness. This capability allows operators to maintain
real-time and near-real-time visibility of the cyberspace domain used or impacted by military
operations. It will allow 624 Operations Center personnel to gain situational awareness of the
current AF Information Network, portions of the Internet, and networks used by adversaries. It
includes configuration information including physical and logical network topology as well as
software loads, version control, applied patches, logistical/maintenance access points, suppliers,
and technical configuration of every physical piece of equipment and software connected to and
running on the AF Information Network.

       Example (abbreviated) Enabling Concept Capabilities (initial – solution agnostic)
   5.1 Placement of satellites into near-earth orbit.

   5.2 Short duration (one to three days) manned orbital research missions.

   5.3 Servicing and maintenance for near-earth orbiting satellites. Provide capability to
   enable inspection, replacement and/or repair of failed or degraded spacecraft subsystem
   components and replenishment of consumables (e.g., fuels, fluids, cryogens, etc.).


   Example (abbreviated Enabling Concept Capabilities (linked to potential materiel solution)
   5.3 Servicing and maintenance for near-earth orbiting satellites.

   5.3.1 Conduct proximity, rendezvous and/or docking operations.

   5.3.1.1 Position Information. Provides position information in orbit and in atmospheric
   flight

   5.3.1.2 Monitor and Control Orbiter Rendezvous Systems. The crew uses these
   capabilities to control and monitor all rendezvous/docking subsystems

   5.3.1.3 Communications. Provides communications for the transmission and reception of
   voice, engineering and scientific data, and commands
AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011                                                                      25



  5.3.2 Deliver propellant and other consumables to spacecraft.

  5.3.3 Replace and/or repair spacecraft components.


                           Example Operating Concept Capabilities
  5.3.1.1 Position Information. Provides position information in orbit and in atmospheric
  flight
           Inertial Measurement Units provide attitude and velocity state information
          with respect to a known inertial coordinate reference
           Star trackers search for, acquire and track selected navigation stars to enable
          attitude calculation

  5.3.1.2 Monitor and Control Orbiter Systems. The crew is able to monitor and control all
  rendezvous /docking subsystems
            Four orbiter display units provide a display of flight computer information
            The caution and warning system alerts the flight crew of an out-of-tolerance
           system
  5.3.1.3 Communications. Provides communications for the transmission and reception of
  voice, engineering and scientific data, and commands
            The S-band transmitter accepts real-time operational data at either of two rates: 96
           or 192 Kbps
                     The low data rate consists of 64 Kbps of telemetry and one 32 Kbps digital
                voice channel
                     The high data rate consists of 128 Kbps of telemetry and two digital voice
                channels of 32 Kbps each
 26                                                             AFSPCI10-102 22 JULY 2011


                                         Attachment 5
                  CAPABILITY TRACEABILITY MATRIX EXAMPLE

Figure A5.1. Capability Traceability Matrix Example
   ―System X‖ Enabling Concept           Functional Concept for Space Support
   5.1.2 Responsive Launch               5.1.1.2 Conduct Responsive Launch
   Operations accomplished by                   - Conduct rapid launch processing (days to
   operational unit                                weeks)
   Process the launch vehicle(s),                   ◦ Process the launch vehicle and prepare
   prepare infrastructure, process                    the associated infrastructure
   payload(s), mate/integrate to the           ◦ Process the requisite payload(s)
   launch vehicle                                   ◦ Mate/integrate the payload to the launch
                                                      vehicle without extensive preparation
   5.1.4 Responsive Satellites           5.1.2 Conduct Integrated Satellite Operations
   Rapid satellite initialization and            - Support rapid initialization procedures,
   checkout                                        system/subsystem checkout and operational
   Automate bus management and                     testing for responsive payloads
   Tracking, Telemetry &
   Commanding as much as possible
   Utilize automated operation/self-
   correction & status reporting

                                          Functional Concept for C2 of Space Forces
  5.1.6 Responsive Space C2               5.1.2 Plan: Formulate the operational objectives,
  accomplished by the Joint Space         generate force lists, and force movement
  Operations Center                       requirements and develop, evaluate, and select
  Automated means to request space        courses of action and plans for friendly forces.
  effects and apportionments to view            - Provide rapid COA development for
  and implement the mission schedule              presentation to decision makers, using
  and Joint Space Tasking Order                   automated processes to the maximum
  Manage and adjudicate multiple                  extent possible
  space effects and satellite                   - Provide tasking for integration into the
  apportionment requests                          Space Tasking Cycle, ensuring
                                                  synchronization with theater Air Tasking
                                                  Order/Integrated Tasking Order to optimize
                                                  utilization of global space assets
