                         DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                           HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND




                                                                          AFSPCGM2013-10-01
                                                                             27 November 2013
MEMORANDUM FOR SEE DISTRIBUTION

FROM: HQ AFSPC/A3
      150 Vandenberg Street
      Peterson AFB CO 80914-4030

SUBJECT: HQ AFSPC Guidance Memorandum for Real-Time Operations and Innovation
(RTOI) Activities

RELEASEABILITY: There are no releaseability restrictions on this publication.

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

This instruction applies to HQ AFSPC, 24th Air Force and its assigned wings. Submit requests
for waivers through the chain of command to this Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance
items. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS).

1. By Order of the Commander Air Force Space Command, This is a Guidance Memorandum
for 24 AF RTOI activities. This memorandum establishes roles, responsibilities, processes and
authorities for executing the RTOI portion of the Integrated Agile Acquisition Construct and is
subject to applicable financial/acquisition guidance such as AFI 65-601 Volume 1, Budget
Guidance and Procedures.

2. The RTOI construct enables the USAF to generate capabilities to address critical cyber needs
at the fastest possible pace. This requires a dynamic, agile risk-based approach, balancing needs
against operational risks/threats. RTOI activity is complementary to the traditional acquisition
framework, and is defined as tools and tactics created in response to:

   a.) Critical Category 1 thru 8 intrusion incidents, as outlined in the Chairman of the Joint
   Chief of Staff Manual 6510.01B, and as determined by 24 AF.
   b.) Newly discovered critical vulnerabilities, not currently mitigated within the AF
   Enterprise network or capable of remediation by other means.
   c.) Critical joint cyberspace operational needs, which 24 AF/CC has decided or been tasked
   to fulfill or have been identified internally.

3. The 24 AF/CC shall consider the following criteria when assessing whether an activity falls
within the RTOI concept.

   a.) Total investment falls under $2M.
   b.) The activity ties or is linked to an existing capability or an identified vulnerability.
   c.) The activity’s end product or capability can be released in less than 180 days.

RTOI activities must be funded using the Operations & Maintenance (O&M, 3400) and
Procurement (3080) appropriations, and must be non-developmental IAW AFI 65-601 Volume 1
and the DoD Financial Management Regulation. However, production and operationalization of
RTOI capabilities may require, or may be most rapidly achieved with the support of external
units. In providing or receiving this support, affected units may utilize their allocated funding in
accordance with appropriate regulations.

4. Roles, Responsibilities and Authorities:
   a.) 24 AF and/or subordinate units will:
         i. Provide appropriate support for RTOI activities to include funding for organic
technical expertise and for appropriate test, assessment and infrastructures.
         ii. Develop or amend, as appropriate, operations concepts and Tactics, Techniques and
Procedures (TTPs) documentation for each capability released.
         iii. Submit a Cyber Needs Form (CNF) for cyberspace requirements which cannot be
met using RTOI processes. CNFs are to be submitted to HQ AFSPC/A5J or HQ AFSPC/A5I for
action, as appropriate.
         iv. Coordinate with other organizations such as Air Force Life Cycle Management
Center (AFLCMC), Air Force Tactical Exploitation of National Capabilities (AFTENCAP), and
Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) as needed to eliminate duplication of effort and
maximize the efficient use of resources. Action Officer level coordination is authorized.
         v. Ensure all released capabilities have followed the appropriate operations acceptance
procedures and have met associated validation, legal review, verification, and accreditation
requirements. Operations acceptance activities should be conducted in an appropriate
Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E) environment and adhere to established test and
evaluation standards.
         vi. Identify RTOI requirements which cannot be accomplished because 24 AF organic
resources are not sufficient. Submit an unfunded requirements (UFR) package to HQ
AFSPC/A3I describing the specific RTOI initiative, linkage to existing capability or an identified
vulnerability, impact if not funded, CNF number, and any other appropriate supporting
documents (e.g., Joint Urgent Operational Needs (JUONs), Vulnerability Assessments and Plans
of Actions and Milestones (POA&Ms)).
         vii. Submit a RTOI Monthly Status Report (MSR) to HQ AFSPC/A3I, A5J, and A5I, as
appropriate NLT the 10th of every month. MSR should contain a description of each RTOI
initiative, linkage to existing capability, CNF number, status, cost estimates and test reports. 24
AF will designate a 24 AF OPR for submitting the MSR.
         viii. As applicable, ensure the released RTOI tool or capability is placed in the
Repository, listed in the Registry and that appropriate information is released to the United States
Cyber Command (USCYBERCOM) Cyber Capabilities Registry (CCR).
         ix. Contact HQ AFSPC/A3I if there are any questions as to whether an RTOI activity
meets or does not meet the RTOI criteria listed above.
   b.) HQ AFSPC/A3I will:
       i. Provide policy, guidance and adjudication on the RTOI process and ensure integration
with the AFSPC Integrated Agile Acquisition Construct (Managed Triage Process).
       ii. Accept, review, validate and advocate for any RTOI UFR from the 24 AF or
subordinate units. Pursue additional sources of funding from AFSPC/A3 or the AFSPC
Corporate Process. Ensure RTOI MSRs are further disseminated to other functional areas as
appropriate.
       iii. Review MSR status at the Quarterly Requirements Review (QRR) board.
       iv. Use the MSR as a tool to advocate for resources in the POM process.

5. The decision authority to Operationally Accept RTOI capabilities for release to the
warfighter (67 NWW or joint warfighter) or other DoD or government organization is the 24
AF/CC. 24 AF/CC may formally delegate CNF approval and/or RTOI capability acceptance to
an appropriate level, but no lower than O-6.

6. POCs for this guidance memorandum are Colonel Mark G. Langenderfer, HQ AFSPC/A3I,
Chief, Cyber Operations Division, (DSN: 692-5923), Colonel Dean Hullings, HQ AFSPC/A5J,
Chief, Cyber Requirement Division (DSN: 692-7194) and Colonel Dave Johnson, HQ
AFSPC/A5I, Chief, Cyber Networks Division (DSN: 692-3234).

7. This memorandum replaces previous guidance memorandums regarding same subject. This
Memorandum becomes void one year from the signature date, or upon release of an AF
publication incorporating Real-Time Operations and Innovation guidance, and/or associated
AFSPC formal RTOI guidance (e.g., AFSPC Instruction), which ever is earlier.




                                                  DAVID J. BUCK
                                                  Brigadier General, USAF
                                                  Director of Air, Space and
                                                   Cyberspace Operations



cc:
HQ AFSPC Directorates
24 AF/CC
AFLCMC
AFLC
AFTENCAP
