BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                             INSTRUCTION 33-202

oo                                                                          15 JANUARY 2009

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                          INFORMATION ASSURANCE (IA)

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
 ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                www.e-Publishing.af.mil
 RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: A6NI                                                Certified by: A6N (Col Thomas Hains)
Supersedes: AFSPCI 33-202, 3 Jan 06.                                                Pages:11
This instruction implements Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 8500.01E, Information
Assurance, DoDD 8581.1, Information Assurance (IA) Policy for Space Systems Used by the
Department of Defense (DoD), DoDI 8580.1, Information Assurance (IA) in the Defense
Acquisition System, National Security Space Acquisition Policy (NSSAP) Number 03-01,
Guidance for DoD Space System Acquisition Process, Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-2,
Information Assurance(IA) Program, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-202, Volume 1, Network
and Computer Security (will become AFI 33-210, Air Force Certification and Accreditation
(C&A) Program), and DoDI 8510.01, DoD Information Assurance Certification and
Accreditation Process (DIACAP). This instruction applies to all Air Force Space Command
(AFSPC) systems and to DoD-owned or -controlled space information systems for which
AFSPC has been designated as the Designated Accrediting Authority (DAA). This instruction
also applies to non-AFSPC systems (to include contractor owned– or –operated systems) that
need to connect to an AFSPC system. More restrictive DoD and Director of Central Intelligence
Agency directive requirements governing Special Access Program information take precedence
over this instruction. This instruction is not applicable to Sensitive Compartmented Information
(SCI) systems. For SCI systems, refer to the Joint Department of Defense Intelligence
Information Systems/Cryptologic SCI Information Systems Security Standards.                Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN33-363), Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This change
introduces policy on IA strategies and accreditation strategies, the risk assessment methodology,
AFSPCI33-202 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                         2


cross domain solutions (CDS), the Enterprise Information Environment Data Repository
(EITDR), the limited use of Information Technology (IT) Lean with Security, Interoperability,
Supportability, Sustainability, and Usability (SISSU), the Senior IA Officer (SIAO), and a new
Certifying Authority (CA) construct consisting of the CA, the CA Representative, and Agents of
the CA. The former Letter of Agreement is changed to the Letter of Assurance.

1. GENERAL:

1.1. This instruction provides high-level direction. Details of the AFSPC IA and C&A
processes, procedures, and documentation are posted on the AFSPC IA Community of Practice
(CoP); shall be in compliance with the most current DoD, Air Force, and AFSPC guidance; and
must be approved by the DAA support staff leadership.

1.2. AFPD 33-2 paragraph 4.8, defers to DoDD 8581.1 for implementation of IA policy for
space systems (as defined in DoDD 8581.1). Although AFSPC has aligned its IA program with
AFPD 33-2, some concepts in AFPD 33-2 do not apply to space systems. In particular, AFSPC
does not use the role of Information System Owner. Also, space systems shall be treated as non-
Air Force systems in the IT Lean and SISSU process. Space systems funded by the Air Force
must be registered in the EITDR for other purposes but need not complete the entire SISSU
process. Rather, space systems connecting to the Air Force provisioned portion of the Global
Information Grid (AF-GIG) enter SISSU and bypass to SISSU Phase 3 to request an
Authorization to Connect (ATC) from the Air Force DAA.

2. POLICY:

2.1. Information Assurance Strategies. Program Managers shall prepare IA strategies in
accordance with DoDI 8580.1 and NSSAP 03-01 (i.e., for mission critical or mission essential
national security systems) and submit those IA strategies to the AFSPC Chief Information
Officer (CIO) for approval prior to all acquisition milestone decisions, program decision reviews,
and acquisition contract awards. Upon AFSPC-CIO approval, the Program Manager may then
submit the IA strategies to the Air Force CIO.

2.2. Accreditation Strategy. Program Managers shall prepare an accreditation strategy for all
systems. The accreditation strategy is not equivalent to an IA strategy. Where an IA strategy is
otherwise required as discussed above, the accreditation strategy will be included in the IA
strategy. The accreditation strategy will, where feasible, consolidate accreditation boundaries,
combine certification efforts, reduce the number of DIACAP packages, eliminate resource waste,
and ultimately provide a comprehensive evaluation of an entire system or portfolio for
accreditation. In DIACAP Activity 1 (prior to acquisition milestone A or Key Decision Point-
A), Program Managers will coordinate with the DAA Representative to develop a system
accreditation strategy. For systems in development past DIACAP Activity 1, but where no
accreditation strategy was developed and approved, Program Managers will coordinate with the
DAA Representative to determine the course of action to meet the intent of this policy. The
DAA Representative will approve any modifications to the accreditation strategy.
AFSPCI33-202 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                       3


2.3. Risk Assessment Methodology. Results of certification activities shall be expressed using
the risk assessment methodology prescribed on the AFSPC IA CoP (reference CNSSI 4016,
National Information Assurance Training Standard for Risk Analysts).

2.4. Site Certification of Type Accredited Systems. The AFSPC DAA may issue type
accreditations and require site certifications where a common set of software, hardware, and/or
firmware is installed at multiple locations for a baseline operating environment. A site
certification shall be provided to the DAA for each system instance to validate correct
implementation of installation and configuration requirements or operational security needs
assumed by the hosting location.

2.5. Cross Domain Solutions (CDS). All CDSs must be designed, developed, integrated,
certified, and accredited as part of the DIACAP and documented in a DIACAP Package. Special
CDS procedures within the DIACAP, including registration and review by the National Security
Agency (NSA) and community-wide risk assessment, must be followed.

2.5.1. The DAA support staff includes the AFSPC CDS office of primary responsibility.
Program Managers shall coordinate all CDS actions with this office prior to contacting external
or higher-level CDS organizations throughout the CDS approval process.

2.5.1.1. The AFSPC DAA must validate the operational requirement for all connections between
security domains (i.e., CDSs) prior to development of engineering solutions. This validation
coincides with DIACAP Activity 1, Initiate and Plan IA C&A.

2.5.1.2. The AFSPC DAA shall review and sign the Cross Domain Appendix (CDA) prior to
each acquisition milestone decision (in conjunction with the appropriate DIACAP activity) as the
CDA is submitted in accordance with the CDS approval process.

2.5.2. Where a CDS provides no connectivity to the Defense Information System Network
(DISN) and the DISN DAAs do not issue a CDS approval or connection decision, system DAAs
involved must accredit their individual systems including the CDS. Those DAAs may rely on
CDS risk evaluations from the NSA, Cross Domain Resolution Board (CDRB), and Defense
IA/Security Accreditation Working Group (DSAWG). If those evaluations are not provided, the
affected DAAs, through the systems’ Program Managers, must ensure a Certification Test and
Evaluation (CT&E) is performed by an independent and competent entity using the NSA CT&E
methodology and criteria (i.e., Security Requirements 1-9) as input to a risk evaluation and
accreditation decision.

2.6. Letter of Assurance. Program Managers shall submit a Letter of Assurance with the
Agent of the Certifying Authority (ACA) indorsement to the DAA for all accreditation decisions.
Details on the Letter of Assurance format and content may be found on the AFSPC IA CoP.

2.7. Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M). Program Managers shall submit system
POA&Ms (initial and quarterly) to the AFSPC DAA for concurrence. Quarterly submissions
shall include updates to reflect actions taken to resolve open items in a timely manner. HQ
AFSPC/A6N will submit approved POA&Ms to higher levels in accordance with the DIACAP.
AFSPCI33-202 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                        4



3. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:

3.1. AFSPC Commander:

3.1.1. Assignment of AFSPC Designated Accrediting Authority (DAA):

3.1.1.1. The AFSPC Commander is the DAA for:

3.1.1.1.1. Space systems which the Commander of United States Strategic Command
(USSTRATCOM) has designated AFSPC as DAA in accordance with DoDD 8581.1.

3.1.1.1.2. Multi-Component space systems assigned to AFSPC through other than DoDD
8581.1 authority, including Secretary of Defense, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and/or
Service-level agreements or Memorandums of Agreement/Understanding.

3.1.1.1.3. Air Force space systems assigned to AFSPC in accordance with AFPD 33-2 or by the
Undersecretary of the Air Force, as the DoD Executive Agent for Space in accordance with
DoDD 5101.2, DoD Executive Agent for Space.

3.1.1.2. The AFSPC Commander may delegate DAA for any and all assigned systems. Current
DAA delegation memos may be found on the AFSPC IA CoP. Although DAA may be
delegated, the AFSPC Commander retains ultimate accreditation responsibility. DAA is
assigned to the position, not a person; therefore, anyone serving in the position assigned as DAA
may act as DAA, provided that person is trained and certified as a DAA in accordance with DoD
guidelines. Further delegation is prohibited, but the delegated DAA shall appoint a single DAA
Representative residing in Headquarters AFSPC.

3.1.1.3. The DAA will be trained to satisfy standards in CNSSI 4012, National IA Training
Standard for Senior System Managers. The Defense Information Systems Agency provides
links to DAA training on the Information Assurance Support Environment at http://iase.disa.mil/.
(Reference DAA training and certification requirements in DoD 8570.01-M, Information
Assurance Workforce Improvement Program.)

3.1.2. Assignment of AFSPC Chief Information Officer (CIO):

The Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) requires agencies to designate a
CIO. The AFSPC Commander appoints the AFSPC CIO. A current CIO appointment memo
may be found on the AFSPC IA CoP.

3.2. Senior Information Assurance Officer (SIAO).

3.2.1. The AFSPC CIO assigns the SIAO. A current SIAO assignment memo can be found on
the AFSPC IA CoP. The AFSPC SIAO also functions as the CA. The AFSPC SIAO/CA may
also serve as the DAA Representative, depending on the current DAA’s desires.
AFSPCI33-202 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                     5


3.2.2. The SIAO has Direct Liaison Authority to facilitate communications up and down the IA
chain between the DAA, DAA Representative, CA, CA Representatives, Agents of the CA
(ACA), Wing Information Assurance Offices, Information Assurance Managers (IAMs)
(formerly known as Information System Security Manager (ISSM)), User Representatives, and
Program Managers.

3.3. AFSPC DAA Representative.

3.3.1. The DAA appoints a single DAA Representative from his immediate support staff. A
current DAA Representative assignment memo can be found on the AFSPC IA CoP.

3.3.2. The DAA Representative manages day-to-day C&A issues of and ensures all users are
operating systems according to documented C&A packages. The DAA Representative can
perform any of the duties of the DAA, with one exception; the DAA Representative has no
authority to accept risk by issuing an Interim Authorization to Operate (IATO), an Approval to
Operate (ATO), or an Interim Authorization to Test (IATT). The DAA Representative may,
however, issue an ATC or an Interim ATC (IATC) to systems under the purview of the AFSPC
DAA.

3.3.3. The DAA Representative will be trained to the same standard as a DAA, to satisfy
standards in CNSSI 4012 as well as DAA training and certification requirements in DoD
8570.01-M . The Defense Information Assurance Agency provides links to DAA training on the
Information Assurance Support Environment at http://iase.disa.mil/.

3.3.4. The DAA Representative shall ensure personnel in key C&A positions are trained.

3.3.5. The DAA Representative shall approve assignment of or change to the Mission
Assurance Category (MAC) and Confidentiality Level for each system based upon
recommendations from the other DIACAP Team members.

3.4. Certifying Authority.

3.4.1. USSTRATCOM is the DoD Component for multi-Component space systems; therefore,
the USSTRATCOM CIO assigns the SIAO/CA for those systems. For multi-Component space
systems assigned to AFSPC as DAA, CA duties follow that assignment. Therefore, the AFSPC
SIAO is also the CA for assigned multi-Component space systems.

3.4.2. AFPD 33-2 assigns DAA for all Air Force space systems to AFSPC. CA responsibilities
follow that assignment of DAA; therefore, the AFSPC SIAO is the CA for those systems.

3.4.3. The CA shall ensure the certification cadre (i.e., CA Representative and ACA) are
independent from the acquisition and development organizations to provide the most objective
certification information to the DAA. Per authority granted by the DIACAP, the CA established
the certification construct below.

3.5. Certifying Authority Representative.
AFSPCI33-202 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                          6



3.5.1. The Certifying Authority assigns the CA Representative. A current CA Representative
assignment memo can be found on the AFSPC IA CoP.

3.5.2. The CA may delegate any CA duties to the CA Representative at the CA’s discretion.
The major CA Representative responsibility is to ensure Program Managers integrate IA
throughout the systems acquisition lifecycle.

3.6. Agent of the Certifying Authority (ACA).

3.6.1. ACAs conduct hands-on validation of IA controls. Given the wide variety of expertise
needed for complex systems, ACAs may employ a team of experts.

3.6.2. ACAs shall be independent from the developer and Program Manager, to ensure the most
objective certification information is provided to the CA and the DAA to make accreditation
decisions.

3.6.3. Program Managers nominate ACAs for appointment by the CA. In effect, Program
Managers “hire out” certification activities to ensure independent validation of IA controls.
ACA responsibilities may not be re-delegated or assumed.

3.6.4. ACAs must be trained in accordance with National Security Telecommunications and
Information Systems Security Instruction (NSTISSI) 4015, National Training Standard for
System Certifiers. ACAs must also be qualified and certified in their area of expertise in
accordance with DoDD 8570.1, IA Training, Certification, and Workforce Management.

3.6.5. ACAs indorse Letters of Assurance submitted by Program Managers to the DAA.

3.6.6. ACAs will be engaged by the system IAM to assess the risk of changes to a system or its
environment after accreditation. If the ACA determines there is no additional risk, the DIACAP
Package is updated and no further action is required (i.e., the DAA need not be engaged). If the
ACA determines there is additional risk, the ACA shall make a certification determination and
accreditation recommendation to the DAA.

3.7. User Representative.

3.7.1. The Director of Air and Space Operations ensures a User Representative from the
operational/functional community is appointed for each system.

3.7.2. The User Representative shall assist the C&A Team in identifying the appropriate level
of confidentiality, integrity, and availability necessary to satisfy operational requirements. This
is accomplished by identifying (for DAA approval) the appropriate MAC, Confidentiality Level,
and other factors which determine the robustness of the C&A effort.

3.8. Program Manager:
AFSPCI33-202 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                      7


3.8.1. Program Manager is synonymous with Single Manager, Program Director, or Project
Manager. In accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, Program Managers head
system program offices and provide cradle-to-grave support. However, some systems may be
developed by the operational community, or there may be systems for which the program office
no longer exists (i.e., the formal Program Manager turned over a system to the operational
community). In those cases, the Numbered Air Force Commander, Wing Commander, or
equivalent operational community cognizant authority (or designee) who operates and maintains
the system assumes Program Manager responsibilities with respect to the IA program and C&A
over the lifecycle of the system.

3.8.2. The Program Manager has significant responsibilities in the IA program. Program
Managers plan, program, budget, and execute all aspects of acquisition/development, to include
implementing IA controls and conducting certification activities. The Program Manager ensures
the DIACAP Team participates throughout the system development lifecycle in security analyses
performed in conjunction with all design and specification reviews.

3.8.2.1. The Program Manager shall appoint an IAM in writing for each system and make the
appointment memo available to the DAA Representative upon request. If the appointee is not
qualified to serve as an IAM, the DAA Representative may request a suitable replacement.

3.8.2.2. In concert with the User and Test and Evaluation communities, Program Managers
shall conduct integrated IA assessments during testing and evaluation (e.g., Developmental
Testing and Evaluation, Operational Testing and Evaluation, Joint Test and Evaluation, etc.).

3.8.2.3. The Program Manager shall ensure systems are registered in and continuously updated
in the EITDR to comply with FISMA, Clinger Cohen Act, and other reporting requirements.

3.8.2.4. The Program Manager shall acquire agreement from the ACA (or the CA
Representative or CA, if the ACA has not yet been selected) prior to each DIACAP activity
transition to ensure assigned IA controls are identified, designed, implemented, and maintained
for the system and that the appropriate IA posture will be provided at system delivery and
maintained throughout the system lifecycle.

3.8.2.5. For accreditation decisions, the Program Manager shall submit a Letter of Assurance
with the ACA’s indorsement to the DAA.

3.8.2.6. For connections to the AF-GIG, SIPRNet, or NIPRNet, the Program Manager shall
comply with connection approval processes, submit accreditation documentation as required, and
provide artifacts showing compliance with assigned IA controls and other security requirements.

3.8.2.7. Program Managers must develop and provide an accreditation strategy for all systems
to the AFSPC DAA and an IA strategy for appropriate systems to the AFSPC CIO in accordance
with paragraphs 1.2 and 1.3 above.

3.9. Information Assurance Managers (IAMs).
AFSPCI33-202 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                       8


3.9.1. IAMs in this context are appointed for each system or program. These IAMs are aligned
with a program office and are not typically assigned to the base or center IA office.

3.9.2. IAMs shall monitor accredited systems to maintain the risk level accepted by the DAA.
The IAM shall evaluate all system changes (software, hardware, processes, procedures,
environment, etc.), assess the impact to accepted risk, obtain the ACA's coordination if the
change did not increase accepted risk, and document the change in the DIACAP package. If the
assessment determines the risk has increased, the IAM initiates actions with the ACA through
the Program Manager to notify the DAA and obtain appropriate approval.

3.10. Program Management Offices (PMO). PMOs are encouraged to provide direct IA staff
support to the AFSPC Information Assurance Branch to ensure the PMO’s C&A packages
receive due attention throughout the system lifecycle, from inception to decommission. Close
coordination such as this between the PMO and Headquarters AFSPC will ensure IA
requirements are identified early in acquisition with other requirements, included in system
designs, incorporated into system builds, and integrated with functional requirements testing,
thereby significantly reducing the potential for program delays and cost overruns.

3.11. Wing Information Assurance Office (WIAO):

3.11.1. The host base/wing WIAOs shall fulfill the functions indicated in higher level Air Force
policy and directives. Organizations shall route all C&A packages and correspondence for
systems connected to or impacting the base network through the WIAO to ensure completeness,
consistency, and compliance with AFSPC and local policy and directives. The DAA Support
staff will accept and process C&A packages only if submitted through and approved by the
WIAO. Approval will be annotated via “In Turn” indorsement on the Letter of Assurance,
following the ACA’s indorsement.

3.11.2.  Space and Missile System Center (SMC), Acquisition Systems Protection Office
(SMC/PIP) shall serve as the Center's IA Office for SMC's System Program Offices/Wings and
Groups for space systems accredited by AFSPC. SMC/PIP shall coordinate directly with the
AFSPC DAA Representative or CA Representative and is not required to coordinate through the
host base/wing WIAO. 
.
3.11.3. 850 Electronic System Group (ELSG)/NGI, Information Assurance
Manager, shall serve as the System Program Office's IA Office for 850 ELSG
Program Managers developing space systems accredited by AFSPC. 850 ELSG
shall coordinate directly with the AFSPC DAA Representative or CA
Representative and is not required to coordinate through the host base/wing
WIAO.

4. AFSPC-UNIQUE CERTIFICATION AND ACCREDITATION PROCESS:

4.1. Authorization to Connect (ATC). AFSPC follows the DIACAP with one addition. If a
non-AFSPC system must connect to an AFSPC system or enclave, in addition to the
AFSPCI33-202 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                     9


Memorandum of Agreement or Memorandum of Understanding required by Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff guidance, an ATC from the AFSPC DAA is required.

4.2. Urgent and Compelling C&A Process. The Urgent and Compelling C&A Process
expedites fielding of systems urgently needed to support warfighters. The process shall not be
used to circumvent timely submittals of accreditation packages. DIACAP Team members may
recommend to the DAA Representative and the AFSPC-CIO the Urgent and Compelling C&A
Process be implemented, but the DAA Representative and AFSPC-CIO shall weigh the evidence
and decide if the Urgent and Compelling C&A Process will be implemented. An ATO will not
be granted under this process. At most an IATO will be issued.




                                           DAVID B. WARNER, Brig Gen, USAF
                                           Director, Communications and Information
AFSPCI33-202 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                10


                                      Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 44, U.S.C., § 3541, Information Security (a.k.a., FISMA of 2002)
National Security Space Acquisition Policy No. 03-01, Guidance for DoD Space System
Acquisition Process, 27 December 2004
CNSSI 4012, National IA Training Standard for Senior System Managers, June 2004
NSTISSI 4015, National Training Standard for Systems Certifiers, December 2000
CNSSI 4016, National Information Assurance Training Standard for Risk Analysts,
November 2005
DoDD 5101.2, DoD Executive Agent for Space, 3 June 2003
DoDD 8500.01E, Information Assurance, 24 October 2002
DoDI 8510.01, DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP),
28 November 2007
DoDD 8570.1, Information Assurance Training, Certification, and Workforce Management,
15 August 2004
DoD 8570.01-M, Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program, 19 December
2005
DoDI 8580.1, Information Assurance (IA) in the Defense Acquisition System, 9 July 2004
DoDD 8581.1, Information Assurance (IA) Policy for Space Systems Used by the Department
of Defense, 21 June 2005
AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance, 19 April 2007
AFI 33-202, Volume 1, Network and Computer Security, 3 February 2006
AFPAM 63-1701, Program Protection Planning, 27 March 2003

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACA – Agent of the Certifying Authority
AFI – Air Force Instruction
AF-GIG – Air Force Provisioned Portion of the GIG
AFPAM – Air Force Pamphlet
AFPD – Air Force Policy Directive
AFSPC – Air Force Space Command
ATC – Authorization to Connect
ATO – Authorization to Operate
C&A – Certification and Accreditation
CA – Certifying Authority
CDRB – Cross Domain Resolution Board
CDS – Cross Domain Solution
CIO – Chief Information Officer
CoP – Community of Practice
CNSSI – Committee on National Security Systems Instruction
CT&E – Certification Test and Evaluation
DAA – Designated Accrediting Authority
DIACAP – DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process
AFSPCI33-202 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                  11


DISN – Defense Information System Network
DoD – Department of Defense
EITDR – Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository
FISMA – Federal Information Security Management Act
IA – Information Assurance
IAM – Information Assurance Manager
IATO – Interim Authorization to Operate
MAC – Mission Assurance Category
NSA – National Security Agency
NSTISSI – National Security Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Instruction
PMO – Program Management Office
POA&M – Plan of Action and Milestones
SCI – Sensitive Compartmented Information
SIAO – Senior Information Assurance Officer
SMC – Space and Missile Systems Center
USSTRATCOM – United States Strategic Command
WIAO – Wing Information Assurance Office
