BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                             INSTRUCTION 10-1215

                                                                                15 JUNE 2007
                                                              Incorporating Through Change 2,
                                                          Certified Current 11 September 2013

                                                                                     Operations

                                                              SUPPORT TO FAA-LICENSED
                                                              SPACE LAUNCH ACTIVITIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: A3RS                                                                     Certified by: A3R
                                                                     (Lt Col Andre G. Shappell)
Supersedes:   AFSPCI10-1215, 2 August                                                  Pages: 14
              1999


This instruction implements AFI 10-1201, Space Operations, to support commercial space
launch activities governed by 51 USC 50901 et seq, Commercial Space Launch Activities. It
applies to all activities that support the commercial space launch industry at Headquarters Air
Force Space Command (HQ AFSPC), 14th Air Force, 30th Space Wing and 45th Space Wing. It
also applies to all military, government service and applicable contractor personnel whose duties
directly relate to the management, preparation and conduct of activities supporting the HQ
AFSPC commercial spacelift mission. It does not apply to the Air Force Reserve or Air National
Guard. The reporting requirements in this directive are exempt from report control symbol
(RCS) licensing in accordance (IAW) with AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and
Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public and Interagency Air Force
Information Collections. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
HQ AFSPC/A3S, 150 Vandenberg St., Suite 1105, Peterson AFB CO 80914-4200 using AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Organizations at any level may
supplement this instruction. Supplements will not lessen the requirements nor change the basic
content or intent of this instruction. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to
AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. See Attachment 1
for a glossary of references and supporting information.
 2                                                             AFSPCI10-1215 15 JUNE 2007


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document updates references from 49 USC to 51 USC. HQ AFSPC A4/7 responsibilities
are updated. References to Surety Bonds, Letters of Credit and Standby Letters of Credit are
deleted. Minor administrative updates throughout. A margin bar indicates newly revised
material.
1. General. Title 51 USC, National Space Policy and DoD policy encourage support for
commercial space launch activities within the United States private sector. Air Force Space
Command’s support for commercial space launch will be on a basis compatible with
accomplishment of DoD and other government agency missions. Commercial space launch
activities will be supported to the fullest extent possible IAW established guidance. Air Force
Space Command shall support commercial space IAW 51 USC 50901 et seq , and DoDD 3230.3,
DoD Support for Commercial Space Launch Activities. Commercial space launch and/or non-
federal space launch users, working cooperatively with the Air Force, conduct spacelift
operations. To ensure proper mission conduct by all Air Force, commercial and non-federal
users, USAF personnel must fully understand the procedures used to support the space launch
industry. Understanding of contracting issues and complete understanding of allocation of
resources and risks within the Commercial Space Operations Support Agreements (CSOSA),
Space Operations Support Agreements (SOSA) with spaceport authorities and their respective
annexes are of particular importance. For additional guidance, contact HQ AFSPC/A3.
2. Scope. This instruction covers the responsibilities for HQ AFSPC, 14 AF and space wing
organizations in the many aspects of Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)-licensed space
launch support. Activities, procedures, and requirements pertaining to return to flight or launch
scheduling are not addressed in this instruction.
3. HQ Air Force Space Command (HQ AFSPC) Responsibilities:
     3.1. Develop command policy for support to commercial space launch operations IAW
     existing statutes, policy, directives and applicable international treaties.
     3.2. Ensure support agreements, e.g., CSOSAs and SOSAs between the Air Force and all
     commercial or non-federal users utilizing Air Force launch property or launch services are
     executed and maintained.
4. HQ AFSPC Directorate of Air, Space and Cyberspace Operations (HQ AFSPC/A3)
Responsibilities:
     4.1. Execute CSOSAs and SOSAs between the Air Force and commercial or non-federal
     users who request the use of Air Force launch property and/or services or who otherwise
     conduct commercial space activities on an AFSPC installation. Execute by co-signing
     agreements after signing by commercial entity’s representative.
        4.1.1. CSOSAs and SOSAs are Air-Staff generated agreements that were negotiated with
        commercial enterprises and are “boilerplate” instruments. Minor administrative changes
        are permitted; however, substantive changes require approval by SAF/GC.
        4.1.2. CSOSAs and SOSAs are valid for a five-year period from A3 execution.
5. HQ AFSPC Space Operations Division (HQ AFSPC/A3S) Responsibilities:
     5.1. Serve as the HQ AFSPC lead for commercial and non-federal space launch activity.
AFSPCI10-1215 15 JUNE 2007                                                                      3


   5.2. Develop HQ AFSPC policy and guidance with other government agencies as required.
   Review published policies annually.
   5.3. Coordinate CSOSAs/SOSAs with HQ AFSPC/JA and the requesting commercial or
   non-federal user.
   5.4. Provide signed copies of the CSOSA/SOSA to the commercial/non-federal user, the
   appropriate space wing, and HQ AFSPC/A7C.
6. HQ AFSPC Directorate of Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (HQ
AFSPC/A4/7) Responsibilities:
   6.1. Coordinate on proposed changes to real property lease and license templates developed
   by the Air Force Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC) prior to publication.
   6.2. Endorse all commercial space lease and license transactions initiated by the installations
   prior to being forwarded to AFCEC for action.
   6.3. The Environmental Program is centralized at the Civil Engineer (CE) Field Operating
   Agency (FOA) and all environmental actions will fall within its area of responsibility. A7I
   will function as the HQ AFSPC liaison with the CE FOA to ensure required environmental
   actions are identified and appropriate action taken.
   6.4. Coordinate with the FAA to ensure National Environmental Policy Act requirements
   have been satisfied and that the commercial space proponent meets any environmental
   impact analysis process requirements not covered in the FAA document
   6.5. DELETED
   6.6. DELETED
   6.7. DELETED
   6.8. DELETED
7. HQ AFSPC Directorate of Financial Management and Comptroller (HQ AFSPC/FM)
Responsibilities. HQ AFSPC/FM will develop policy and guidance to implement Air Force
pricing and costing policies for commercial and non-federal space launch activities.
8. HQ AFSPC Directorate of Safety (HQ AFSPC/SE) Responsibilities:
   8.1. Develop HQ AFSPC Safety policy, requirements and guidance for commercial and non-
   federal space launch activities.
   8.2. Serve as the HQ AFSPC lead for the Common Standards Working Group (CSWG) with
   the FAA Office of Commercial Space Transportation (FAA/AST) IAW the CSWG Charter.
9. 14th Air Force (14 AF) Responsibilities. 14 AF will ensure 30 SW and 45 SW implement
this instruction and develop supplemental guidance as appropriate.
10. Space Wing Responsibilities:
   10.1. The 30 SW and 45 SW will support commercial and non-federal customers to the
   fullest extent allowed by current policy and law.
   10.2. Protect space wing interests. This includes developing annexes to CSOSAs, including
   all necessary determinations and evaluations, to ensure compliance.
 4                                                               AFSPCI10-1215 15 JUNE 2007


     10.3. When the executed CSOSA or SOSA and all associated licenses and leases have been
     approved, CSOSA compliance will be the responsibility of each wing functional area.
11. Wing Commander Responsibilities:
     11.1. Provide Sources of Base Support.
        11.1.1. Base Support is any service and/or support provided by the space wing to
        commercial and non-federal launch and range customers. Base Support does not include
        real property or personal property.
        11.1.2. Provide Space Wing Mandatory Support. Space wings must provide certain base
        support that may impact safety or neighboring personnel. Space wings shall be the source
        of support when:
            11.1.2.1. It is not feasible for commercial and/or non-federal entities to
            establish/maintain the support.
            11.1.2.2. Government participation is required by statute, regulation or instruction.
            11.1.2.3. There is unique value in space wings providing the support, such as
            significant mutual benefits that commercial and/or non-federal customers want to
            encourage the space wing to maintain or retain those capabilities (e.g., weather inputs
            to range safety models).
        11.1.3. Provide Space Wing Available Support. This term means the space wings may
        provide base support where substantially equivalent support is not available from
        domestic commercial/ spaceport sources on reasonable terms. Factors such as price,
        quality, availability and schedule may be considered when determining whether a service
        is substantially equivalent.
            11.1.3.1. Commercial sources include government contractors providing support
            outside the terms of a government contract (e.g., through a separate contract
            arrangement with customers). However, when the government contractor, as a
            commercial source, is going to utilize government-furnished property in providing
            base support, government Contracting Officer (CO) approval is required. Obtaining
            CO approval is the responsibility of the government contractor.
            11.1.3.2. Any such base support will be provided from space wing capabilities
            maintained to support DoD missions and will only be made available on a
            reimbursable basis and if the particular service/ property is not otherwise needed to
            support the DoD mission.
        11.1.4. Maintain Minimum Level of Support.
            11.1.4.1. The space wing shall not maintain any capabilities solely to meet the
            requirements of commercial and/or non-federal entities.
     11.2. Identify excess launch property and/or services and real property that is non-excess or
     not otherwise needed for public use and which can be made available to commercial and
     non-federal users IAW current law and policy.
        11.2.1. Determine, upon receipt of all necessary information from a requestor, when
        launch property/services or reentry property/services are available/not available to
AFSPCI10-1215 15 JUNE 2007                                                                      5


     accommodate specific commercial or non-federal user requests. A determination of non-
     availability must be in writing and include supporting rationale. If the commander makes
     a determination that launch property/ services or reentry property/services are not
     available, the commander shall forward an information copy of the written notification to
     HQ AFSPC/A3R.
  11.3. Require commercial or non-federal users requesting such property/services to provide,
  among other data, a written statement that no U.S. domestic firm can reasonably provide
  substantially equivalent facilities, equipment and/or services. Supporting data must
  accompany the statement.
     11.3.1. The statement shall include the reasons domestic firms cannot provide
     substantially equivalent facilities, equipment and/or services and the process used to
     make that determination.
     11.3.2. The statement must provide enough information for the wing commander to
     ensure that provision of Air Force property will not result in giving any commercial user
     an unfair competitive advantage.
  11.4. Require that when a domestic, substantially equivalent launch property or service does
  exist, the commercial or non-federal entity provide the circumstances that preclude the use of
  the existing firm’s facilities, property and/or services. When a commercial user represents
  that it is precluded from using an existing firm, such reasons shall be provided to the existing
  firm(s) for comment. The wing commander should encourage the commercial or non-federal
  user and existing firm(s) to seek a mutually agreeable solution. If the commercial user and
  the existing firm(s) are unable to resolve the matter, the wing commander shall determine
  whether to allow the commercial user to use Air Force launch base property based upon all
  the available information. The wing commander may elect to elevate the decision to HQ
  AFSPC/A3.
  11.5. Determine, as a prerequisite to providing Air Force-owned or controlled facilities,
  equipment and/or services, that:
     11.5.1. the facilities will be used to support FAA-licensed space activities;
     11.5.2. such use can be supported by existing or planned Air Force/federal resources;
     11.5.3. such use is compatible with Air Force/federal activities;
     11.5.4. such use is consistent with public safety, national security, and international
     treaty obligations; and
     11.5.5. equivalent commercial services are not available on reasonable terms where (i)
     equivalent means substantially the same property in terms of function, capacity, utility,
     and quality; (ii) available means as and when needed by the user to the user’s reasonable
     satisfaction; and (iii) reasonable means that price and other terms and conditions of use
     are commercially reasonable.
  11.6. Encourage users to reach a mutually acceptable solution in the event that a conflict
  between commercial and/or non-federal users arises concerning shared use by multiple users
  of launch property or launch services. If the users cannot reach such a solution the wing
  commander shall resolve the matter by scheduling shared use of the facility, granting
  exclusive use as appropriate, or elevating the decision to HQ AFSPC/A3.
 6                                                              AFSPCI10-1215 15 JUNE 2007


     11.7. Determine whether exclusive possession is in the best interest of both the government
     and the commercial space industry, thereby allowing exclusive use of launch property to be
     granted to commercial and/or non-federal users. Consider factors such as the program status,
     date of valid facility request, completeness of documentation, program maturity, benefit to
     the commercial space industry, benefit to the government and any other matter the wing
     commander deems appropriate in making the decision to grant exclusive or shared use. Such
     decisions must be made in writing and be accompanied by supporting rationale. Forward
     information copies of the written notification and supporting rationale to HQ AFSPC/A3R.
     11.8. Determine replacement values for facilities or other resources as appropriate that may
     be impacted by commercial or non-federal user programs and forward that information to the
     FAA/AST for input into the Maximum Probable Loss Analysis (MPLA). Update baseline
     assessment information upon request from FAA.
     11.9. Determine the total amount of insurance a commercial or non-federal user must have
     to protect the interests of the government IAW provisions of support agreements and real
     property instruments. Ensure that such insurance is in place prior to the beginning of
     operations and validate that determination on at least an annual basis.
        11.9.1. Ascertain the scope of the FAA license and the need for insurance in addition to
        that required for the license evaluated to preclude gaps in coverage.
        11.9.2. Ensure Federal Government personnel independently calculate the amount of
        insurance required using actuarial methods (support contractors who have no affiliation
        with the commercial or non-federal party to the agreements may be used to accomplish
        the calculations provided they are reviewed and approved by Air Force personnel).
        Ensure the independent calculation of insurance requirements affirms the insurance
        requirements adequately protect wing resources.
     11.10. DELETED
     11.11. Approve all modifications to USAF-owned real property, facilities, or equipment
     made by commercial or non-federal users.
     11.12. Approve commercial and/or non-federal users' contingency plans and processes based
     on wing staff recommendation. Requirements are found in AFSPCMAN 91-710, Range
     Safety User Requirements, Volume 6 or EWR 127-1, Chapter 6 for grandfathered programs.
        11.12.1. The commercial and/or non-federal user may use other than government
        resources, but its contingency plans and processes must meet Air Force requirements.
     11.13. Approve annexes to CSOSAs and SOSAs.
     11.14. Mandate use of space wing services even if the services are commercially available in
     matters of safety, resource protection, or security and if it is in the best interest of the
     government.
12. Wing Plans Office (XP) Responsibilities:
     12.1. Serve as the wing's initial point of contact for commercial and/or non-federal agency
     requests for wing support throughout the planning phase.
        12.1.1. The wing XP office will ensure all necessary financial, civil engineering, safety,
        environmental and contracting functions in support of commercial or non-federal space
AFSPCI10-1215 15 JUNE 2007                                                                        7


      launch are conducted. Work through the appropriate offices to ensure the necessary
      support is provided to the commercial or non-federal user.
          12.1.1.1. The 30 SW and 45 SW shall standardize the interface between the wing XP
          office and commercial and/or non-federal users to the maximum extent possible.
   12.2. Advise the commercial and/or non-federal entity of the wing’s mission, roles, and
   capabilities.
   12.3. Provide initial support planning for commercial and/or non-federal users and develop
   an Initial Support Agreement for the wing commander’s signature, as appropriate, IAW
   existing support agreements.
      12.3.1. Prior to initiating any other activities, advise prospective commercial and/or non-
      federal users to evaluate commercially available facilities and provide the wing with
      documented justification why these facilities will not meet mission requirements. This
      will ensure that the Air Force does not compete with commercial providers.
          12.3.1.1. Commercial providers are those providers that have either operational
          facilities not on the launch base or a CSOSA or SOSA and a valid real property
          instrument that allows it to use and/or offer use of property on the launch base by
          multiple commercial or non-federal users.
      12.3.2. Work with commercial and/or non-federal agencies to match customer
      requirements with available wing capabilities.
      12.3.3. Develop an initial cost estimate for the requested support in conjunction with
      appropriate wing agencies. Provide the estimate to the commercial or non-federal agency,
      HQ AFSPC/A3R and HQ AFSPC/FM.
      12.3.4. In conjunction with the wing comptroller, ensure a Job Order Number (JON) is
      established for the commercial or non-federal user. The JON is required before the wing
      can begin support of the commercial or non-federal user.
      12.3.5. Produce a Statement of Capability in response to the commercial or non-federal
      user’s Program Introduction.
   12.4. Ensure development, execution, and maintenance of CSOSA and SOSA Annexes and
   related appendices with commercial and other non-federal users.
      12.4.1. Provide Annexes to the CSOSA or SOSA to HQ AFSPC/A3R. Annexes must
      describe the actual support to be provided to the commercial or non-federal user.
   12.5. Conduct initial program assessment and planning.
   12.6. Facilitate initial program siting efforts (i.e. launch point and facility use proposals) by
   working with the Civil Engineer Squadron and other wing agencies as appropriate.
   12.7. Establish wing policies and develop supplemental guidance as appropriate to further
   implement this instruction.
13. Wing Safety (SE) Responsibilities:
 8                                                               AFSPCI10-1215 15 JUNE 2007


     13.1. Advise the wing and unit commanders about safety programs and hazards associated
     with commercial and non-federal activities and operations. Review and approve Commercial
     User Safety Plans to ensure compliance with safety provisions of AFSPCMAN 91-710.
     13.2. Work through the Wing Plans Office to ensure a commercial and/or non-federal user's
     safety plan is consistent with safety requirements in AFSPCMAN 91-710 to fulfill the wing
     commander's base and public safety responsibilities for Level I Universal Documentation
     System (UDS).
     13.3. Act as the single point of contact for all range safety requirements documented in the
     UDS.
     13.4. Interface directly with the customer to define range safety requirements, capabilities
     and execution of the tailoring process.
     13.5. Perform range safety functions to support customer operations.
14. Wing Comptroller (CPTS) Responsibilities:
     14.1. Identify and establish necessary data reporting points, processes and cost accounting
     structures to separately calculate the Department of Defense Financial Management
     Regulation 7000.14, Vol 11a, Chapter 13-defined direct, indirect and overhead costs of each
     supported commercial launch and billable cost for each launch and related activities.
     14.2. Use the Job Order Cost Accounting System (JOCAS) or another suitable job order
     number cost estimating system to develop price estimates for eligible commercial space
     launches and related activities using inputs from the applicable Cost Center Managers,
     Program Managers and Program Support Managers with approval of the Job Order Managers
     (JOM) and applicable cost center managers.
     14.3. Work with the wing JOMs to establish a JON for commercial or non-federal users.
     14.4. Collect all user charges in JOCAS and bill customers.
     14.5. Provide standard financial reports to JOMs and range users.
15. Wing Mission Support Group (MSG) Responsibilities:
     15.1. Work with the wing XP office to ensure MSG support processes and requirements are
     properly documented in the wing Annex to the CSOSA. Offer technical assistance to wing
     agencies for programs impacting MSG assets or resources.
     15.2. Work with the wing XP office to ensure the commercial and/or non-federal user
     complies with base support and/or other applicable agreements.
     15.3. Manage and/or administer contracts supporting all range customers IAW contractual
     authority to include review of excess property/equipment modifications for sustainment and
     operations and maintenance impacts. Identify any costs associated with such support.
     15.4. Establish operations policy covering the use and allocation of MSG assets and
     resources.
     15.5. Wing Civil Engineering (CE) Responsibilities. Wing CE, through the Real Property
     Office, is the office of primary responsibility for all real property lease, permit and license
     actions. This includes preparation of new instruments as well as extension, revision, or
AFSPCI10-1215 15 JUNE 2007                                                                    9


  termination of existing instruments. CE is also the office of primary responsibility for all
  environmental issues. CE will work through wing XP and coordinate with LCG to ensure
  commercial or non-federal users meet all requirements for use of launch property/services.
  Wing CE will:
     15.5.1. Submit proposed facility use to the base Facilities Board for approval IAW
     AFSPCI 32-1008, Facilities Board, when notified by wing XP of the facility selected for
     use by a commercial or non-federal user. Evaluate proposed commercial space operations
     for conformance with the base general plan.
     15.5.2. Forward all proposed real property leases or licenses that exceed the limits of the
     authority delegated to the wing commander to HQ AFSPC/A7C for approval.
     15.5.3. Forward any requests by commercial or non-federal users that are space related
     but do not meet the definition of launch property under the Commercial Space Launch
     Act, as amended, to HQ AFSPC/A7C. Such requests are outside the scope and
     applicability of current Air Force policy.
     15.5.4. Ensure an Environmental Baseline Survey or waiver, the Environmental Impact
     Analysis Process, and an Air Conformity Determination are completed prior to the
     execution of a lease or license.
     15.5.5. Ensure federal, state, and local environmental requirements are met prior to
     execution of a lease or license. This should include, but is not limited to, an
     Environmental Impact Analysis, an assessment whether an Air Conformity
     Determination must be prepared, and compliance with the Clean Water Act.
     15.5.6. Ensure an Environmental Closeout Survey is completed upon termination of real
     property agreements, as required.
     15.5.7. Ensure the most current version of the CSOSA or SOSA, as appropriate, is
     signed as a prerequisite to negotiation of leases or licenses with commercial or non-
     federal users.
     15.5.8. Ensure lease/license compliance after the CSOSA or SOSA has been executed
     and all real property licenses and leases have been approved.
     15.5.9. Ensure necessary easements are established and appropriate documentation is in
     place.
     15.5.10. Document which activity (i.e. government program or contract supported, FAA-
     licensed activity name) the real property was approved for and ensure the commercial
     space or non-federal user adheres to the agreement.
     15.5.11. Upon termination of real property agreements, ensure that Air Force facilities
     and equipment are returned in good, sound and usable condition (excepting fair wear and
     tear).
     15.5.12. Ensure that the related appearance of leased Air Force facilities are compatible
     with the AFSPC Installation Excellence Recognition Program.
     15.5.13. Ensure utilities provider is aware of launch and has not scheduled utility system
     downtime.
 10                                                            AFSPCI10-1215 15 JUNE 2007


16. Operations Group (OG) Responsibilities:
   16.1. Conduct range operations planning by controlling Level II and III UDS processes.
   16.2. Work with wing XP to ensure OG support processes and requirements are properly
   documented in the wing Annex to the CSOSA.
   16.3. Work with wing XP to ensure the commercial or non-federal user complies with base
   support and/or other applicable agreements.
   16.4. Offer technical assistance to wing agencies for programs impacting OG assets or
   resources.
   16.5. Assist booster and spacecraft customers with range integration issues.
17. Range Operations Squadron (ROPS) Responsibilities:
   17.1. Interface with wing agencies for integration of range requirements throughout the
   UDS.
   17.2. Act as the single point of contact for all range support requirements (Radar, Telemetry,
   Data Processing, Data Transfer and other range instrumentation) documented in the UDS.
   17.3. Directly interface with the customer to define range support requirements and
   capabilities.
   17.4. Provide range support throughout the life of the program.
   17.5. Assign JOMs to interface with the wing comptroller and aid in developing support
   price estimates, including program, launch, and project specific costs.
   17.6. Assign a Program Support Manager as the single point of contact to the customer for
   Range support following XP publication of the Statement of Capability.
   17.7. Operate the range, as required, to support customer operations.
18. Weather Squadron (WS) Responsibilities:
   18.1. Interface with the wing XP and/or ROPS for integration of weather requirements
   throughout the UDS.
   18.2. Directly interface with the customer to define daily/routine processing weather support
   requirements and capabilities.
   18.3. Directly interface with the customer to define launch weather support requirements and
   capabilities.
   18.4. Provide weather support throughout the life of the program.
19. Launch Group (LCG) Responsibilities:
   19.1. Act as the wing launch focal point and provide launch and test expertise to wing
   customers.
   19.2. Establish operations policy covering the use and allocation of LCG assets and
   resources.
   19.3. Work with the wing XP office to ensure LCG support processes and requirements are
   properly documented in the wing Annex to the CSOSA.
AFSPCI10-1215 15 JUNE 2007                                                                   11


  19.4. Work with the wing XP office to ensure the commercial or non-federal user complies
  with base support and/or other applicable agreements.
  19.5. Offer technical assistance to wing agencies for programs impacting LCG assets or
  resources.
  19.6. Assist booster and spacecraft customers with launch integration issues.
  19.7. Act as the wing point of contact for all booster and spacecraft activity requirements as
  documented in the UDS. Directly interfaces with the customer to define launch support,
  facilities, and infrastructure capabilities and requirements. Provide reimbursable spacelift
  systems engineering support throughout the launch campaign.
  19.8. Provide reimbursable spacelift systems engineering support throughout the launch
  campaign.




                                           C. DONALD ALSTON, Brig Gen, USAF
                                           Director of Air, Space, and Information Operations
 12                                                        AFSPCI10-1215 15 JUNE 2007


                                      Attachment 1
            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 3200.11, Major Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB), 27 December 2007
DoDFMR 7000.14, Vol 11a, Chapter 13, Reimbursable Operations, Policy and Procedures,
November 2008
DoDD 3230.3, DoD Support to U.S. Commercial Space Launch Activities, 14 October 1986,
Incorporating Change 1, 7 March 1988
AFI 32-9003, Granting Temporary Use of Air Force Real Property, 19 August 1997
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling
Internal, Public and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 6 March 2013
AFSPCMAN 91-710, Range Safety User Requirements Manual, 1 July 2004
AFSPCI 32-1008, Facilities Board, 1 June 2005
Eastern and Western Range (EWR) 127-1, Range Safety Requirements
51 U.S.C.
SAF/SX/MII Memo, Policy on Use of Air Force Real Property for Commercial Space Activities,
7 May 1996

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CSLA—Commercial Space Launch Activities (Formerly the Commercial Space Launch Act)
CSOSA—Commercial Space Operations Support Agreement
FAA/AST—Federal Aviation Administration Associate Administrator for Commercial Space
Transportation
ISA—Initial Support Agreement
JOCAS—Job Order Cost Accounting System
JOM—Job Order Manager
JON—Job Order Number
MPLA—Maximum Probable Loss Analysis
PSM—Program Support Manager
ROPS—Range Operations Squadron
SC—Statement of Capability
SOSA—Space Operations Support Agreement
UDS—Universal Documentation System
AFSPCI10-1215 15 JUNE 2007                                                                    13


Terms
Commercialization Agreement—Precursor document to the Commercial Space Operations
Support Agreement which detailed support to commercial or non-federal user activities, financial
arrangements, and safety and security compliance requirements.
Commercial Space Operations Support Agreement—A support agreement between HQ
AFSPC and a commercial user that describes support of user activities, allocation of risks,
financial arrangements and safety, security and environmental compliance requirements.
Commercial User—A FAA-licensed, Title 51 entity
Direct Cost—Actual cost that can be unambiguously associated with a commercial launch effort
or other commercial space activity which would not be borne by the DoD in the absence of the
commercial activity.
Excess Launch Property—Launch Property that is not currently needed for public use.
Excess Launch Services—Launch Services that are not currently needed for public use.
Exclusive Use—Granting exclusive possession of real or personal property to a commercial or
non-federal user.
Full Cost—A monetary measure of the amount of resources applied or consumed in providing
launch and range services. It is the sum of the direct and indirect costs that contribute to the
output including an appropriate allocation of supporting services costs.
Initial Support Agreement—The first agreement signed after a commercial/non-federal user’s
program is defined. The agreement defines the terms and conditions for initial planning support
from the Wing.
Launch Property—Any item built for or used in the preparation or launch of a launch vehicle.
Launch property does not include unimproved land. It is Air Force policy to consider
administrative buildings to be launch property only if they are directly related to launch
preparation or not otherwise commercially available within 50 miles of the processing or launch
facilities.
Launch Services—Activities involved in the preparation of a launch vehicle, payload, crew, or
spaceflight participant, or the conduct of a launch.        For the purposes of this document,
“payload” does not include any spacecraft and/or satellite related to missile defense activities.
Launch Services Provider—A commercial company or non-federal agency that has a valid
Department of Transportation (DoT) license to conduct activities involved in the preparation of a
launch vehicle or payload or the conduct of a launch.
Launch Site Operator—A commercial company or non-federal agency that has a valid DoT
license to operate a launch site on Wing property. Operations personnel from a commercial or
non-federal agency, including sub-contractors, licensed to operate a launch site on wing
property.
Maximum Probable Loss Analysis—Maximum Probable Loss analysis conducted by the FAA
for insurance purposes.
 14                                                             AFSPCI10-1215 15 JUNE 2007


Non-Federal User—Non-federal agency involved in the commercial space launch business that
uses excess launch capacity. State government agencies such as state spaceports are included in
this definition.
Program Introduction (PI)—The initial UDS planning document submitted by a potential
commercial or non-federal user to the support range immediately upon identification of general
program requirements.
Program Support Manager (PSM)—Point of contact assigned by the ROPS to be responsible
for integrating range requirements support through the Universal Documentation System.
Real Property Office—Office of primary responsibility within wing-level and MAJCOM Civil
Engineering for administering real property out-grants.
Shared Use—Granting use of real or personal property to multiple users, to include government,
commercial or non-federal users. Shared use of real property (land and facilities) is granted with
a real estate license. Shared use of personal property is granted with an appropriate equipment
license or similar agreement.
Space Operations Support Agreement—A support agreement between HQ AFSPC and a non-
federal user that describes support of user activities, allocation of risks, financial arrangements
and safety, security and environmental compliance requirements.
Statement of Capability (SC)—The UDS document provided by Wing Plans that provides the
commercial or non-federal user with a preliminary cost estimate and/or prerequisites for support.
The SC is provided in response to the PI.
Substantially Equivalent—Available from a domestic source on reasonable terms and
conditions, such as price, quality and schedule.
Universal Documentation System— Standardized documentation system providing a formal,
common method of language and format for stating user, safety, and range requirements, and
preparing range support response documents.
