BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                               INSTRUCTION 21-135

                                                                                    28 MAY 2014

                                                                                     Maintenance

                                                           SPACE SYSTEMS DEPOT SOURCE
                                                            OF REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AFSPC/A4S                                                          Certified by: AFSPC/ASS
                                                                              (Mr. Gregg Fogarty)
Supersedes:    AFSPCI21-135,                                                            Pages: 16
               17 April 2013


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle
Management. It establishes Depot Source of Repair (DSOR) and Depot Maintenance Activation
Planning (DMAP) guidelines, policies and procedures and applies to all systems/programs
managed within the Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC). This publication does not apply
to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or the Air National Guard (ANG). The authorities to
waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2,
T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publication and Forms
Management, Table 1.1, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.
Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised substantially and should be reviewed in its entirety.
 2                                                                  AFSPCI21-135 28 MAY 2014


1. Introduction.
     1.1. Purpose. The Air Force is committed to retaining a robust and affordable organic depot
     maintenance capability to support the warfighter while fulfilling the requirements of 10 USC
     § 2464, Core Depot-Level Maintenance and Repair Capabilities and 10 USC § 2466,
     Limitations on the Performance of Depot-Level Maintenance of Materiel. AFI 63-101_20-
     101 mandates that all systems requiring hardware or software depot level maintenance have
     an approved DSOR decision. This instruction assists the Program Manager (PM) and
     Product Support Manager (PSM) and their staff in documenting and coordinating data and
     rationale for a viable, auditable DSOR decision document and depot activation planning
     requirements.
     1.2. Scope. The Depot Source of Repair (DSOR) process applies to workloads for hardware
     and software for both new acquisitions and fielded systems regardless of whether the
     Government or private contractor manages the system or subsystem. Source of Repair (SOR)
     processes are also utilized to reassess prior DSOR decisions when major changes occur that
     could potentially affect previous DSOR decisions (e.g., changes in the length of a program’s
     life cycle, capability and sustainment modifications, increases greater than 20% in labor
     hours cost, or quantities of fielded systems). For fielded systems, the process will be initiated
     as soon as the change in posture is considered. The DSOR begins prior to Milestone (MS) A
     for new acquisitions and completion is expected at MS B in accordance with AFI 63-101_20-
     101 guidance.
        1.2.1. The DSOR process is intended to only address depot level maintenance support
        decisions and will not address other areas of product support. The DSOR process does
        not recommend or approve contract methodologies, Public-Private Partnerships (PPP)
        methodologies, or any other aspect of program management.                  The DSOR
        recommendation will be either organic repair, contract repair, or a combination thereof.
        The program office will not execute depot maintenance implementation plans/agreements
        or a contract prior to the completion of a formal DSOR determination.
     1.3. Overview. The DSOR is a two-part process including both Air Force, considered part
     1, and Department of Defense (DoD) Depot Maintenance Interservice (DMI) process,
     considered Part 2.
        1.3.1. The AF uses the Source of Repair Assignment (SORA) process to identify its
        DSOR assignment (organic or contract) within the AF. The AF process allows full
        consideration of the requirements of 10 USC § 2464 (core requirement), 10 USC § 2466
        (50/50 limitation), and 10 USC § 2474 (partnerships). The end result of a SORA is an
        AF determined DSOR location for a particular workload prior to submittal to the DMI
        process.
        1.3.2. Source of Repair Assignment (SORA). The SORA is the primary process by
        which the AF postures its depot level maintenance workloads for both hardware and
        software. All SORAs require, as a minimum, the following coordination: PM or PSM,
        HQ AFSPC A4/7, and the applicable Program Executive Officer (PEO). Refer to Table
        2.1 SORA Signature Levels for guidance. SORA packages are developed and submitted
        through the DSOR Automated Management System (AMS) managed by HQ
        AFMC/A4D; refer to the following link for instructions on requesting access to the
        DSOR AMS (https://cs3.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/dsorii/default.aspx).
AFSPCI21-135 28 MAY 2014                                                                        3


       1.3.3. Depot Maintenance Interservice (DMI). The DMI is the primary process by which
       the DoD postures its depot level maintenance workloads. The end result of the DMI
       process is a final DSOR decision. Once the AF SORA provides a recommendation, it
       must then go through, and complete, the DMI process for a final DSOR decision.
       1.3.4. The PM initiates and completes the DSOR for AF depot level workloads including
       AF portions of joint programs. The PM will initiate the non-classified DSOR through the
       DSOR AMS. (T-1). Refer to the following link for instructions on how to gain access to
       the DSOR AMS: (https://cs3.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/dsorii/default.aspx).
       1.3.5. Categories of Depot Maintenance Workloads. There are five situations where a
       DSOR is required to be completed; refer to AFI 63-101/20-101 for a description of each
       situation. The PM is responsible to determine when a DSOR may be required and initiate
       the process.
       1.3.6. Exclusions to the DSOR Process. Although there is no waiver to the DSOR for
       depot-level maintenance workloads, there are certain categories of workloads which may
       be excluded from DSOR requirements. Categories of workloads meeting the exclusion
       criteria include:
          1.3.6.1. Workloads generated by Industrial Plant Equipment located exclusively
          within the depot maintenance complex and funded through the industrial fund.
          1.3.6.2. Modifications that are to be performed in conjunction with scheduled depot
          maintenance at the assigned SOR.
          1.3.6.3. Modifications to components that do not change the form, fit, or function of
          the component modified and do not change the basic part number, only the version
          (dash number change), as long as the SOR of the end-item does not change.
          1.3.6.4. Foreign Military Sales programs.
          1.3.6.5. United States Special Operations Command workloads which are Major
          Force Program-11 funded.
          1.3.6.6. Systems and equipment under special access programs.
          1.3.6.7. Automated data processing equipment workloads that are not for national
          security systems.
          1.3.6.8. Department of Energy special design military spares.
          1.3.6.9. The Program Manager (PM) is responsible to verify that a specific workload
          meets the exclusion criteria as described here and in AFI 63-101_20-101. Regardless
          of whether a specific workload meets the exclusion criteria, the PM is still required to
          report obligations for depot level maintenance under Title 10 USC 2466 (50/50).
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.1. HQ AFSPC A4/7.
       2.1.1. Provide policy and guidance for preparing and submitting DSOR packages and
       depot activation planning.
       2.1.2. Review and coordinate on SORA packages and DMAPs for space programs.
4                                                               AFSPCI21-135 28 MAY 2014


       2.1.3. Review/monitor DSOR status for all Space DSOR packages to ensure timely
       submission and approval.
       2.1.4. Coordinate on all Space DSOR packages in accordance with AFI 63-101_20-101.
          2.1.4.1. Support reviews of active Space DSOR packages and assist/coordinate
          completion of packages with SMC.
       2.1.5. Review and approve DSOR policy and guidance from subordinate organizations.
       2.1.6. Coordinate with other HQ AFSPC Directorates to ensure a balanced, executable
       program.
    2.2. SMC/SLA DRAFT
       2.2.1. Provide oversight and guidance to all programs on completing DSOR submissions.
       2.2.2. Provide guidance to programs on template selection and completion.
       2.2.3. Review DSOR submissions for accuracy and completeness.
       2.2.4. Monitor initiation and completion of DSOR packages for space programs.
       2.2.5. Coordinate with HQ AFSPC A4/7 on all policy issues impacting DSOR
       processing.
       2.2.6. Provide metric data to HQ AFSPC/A4S regarding DSOR completion.
    2.3. Program Manager/Product Support Manager.
       2.3.1. Initiate DSOR process for new acquisitions per DODI 5000.02, Operation of the
       Defense Acquisition System, at Materiel Development Decision by requesting a Strategic
       Core Assessment.
       2.3.2. Initiate DSOR process for other than new acquisitions.
       2.3.3. Complete DSOR decision documentation within established timeframes.
       Specifically, the PM shall obtain Initiating Center Command Section signature for final
       SORA templates. (T-2). See Table 1.1 SORA Signature Level.
AFSPCI21-135 28 MAY 2014                                                                         5



Table 1. SORA Signature Level

 Template      Threshold   PM, PSM,                 HQ
  Type         (Annual     PGM         AFSC/LG     AFSPC            Space        HQ
               Repair      (SORA                   /A4/7            PEO HQ AFMC/ AFMC
                                       (Candidate
               Cost)                                                             /A4
                           Initiator) Depot)      (3)                     A4D
  Legacy                   (1)        (1) (2)
                   N/A        SIGN         SIGN         SIGN       COORD APPROVE
  A&B
                 < $10M       SIGN         SIGN         SIGN        SIGN     APPROVE
                $10M          SIGN         SIGN         SIGN        SIGN       COORD       APPROVE
                   and
                   Up
Notes:
(1) Templates A/B – Non-concurrences may be elevated to AFSC/LG or AFPEO/SP by Candidate
Depot(s) or the PM as required for resolution.
(2) ALC (candidate depot) coordination required prior to AFSC/LG signature.
(3) HQ AFSPC/A4/7 maintain prerogative to elevate or delegate the SORA
 signature level
       2.3.4. Ensure that the program’s minimum needs for rights in technical data and
       computer software are incorporated into technology development/acquisition strategies
       and Requests for Proposals (RFPs) to enable depot level maintenance sustainment for
       core-determined workloads in accordance with DoDI 5000.02 and AFI 63-101_20-101.
       Acquire rights in technical data and computer software necessary to satisfy user needs
       and consistent with federal procurement law, including 10 USC § 2320. Make sure to
       assess the long-term technical data needs of programs and establish corresponding
       acquisition strategies that provide for technical data rights needed to sustain such systems
       and subsystems over their life cycle.
         2.3.5. Create and maintain official DSOR folders in the AMS.
         2.3.6. Establish Depot Maintenance Activation Working Group (DMAWG), and
         Maintenance Activation Planning Team (MAPT) teams, as appropriate, to complete
         activation planning and implementation actions.
         2.3.7. PSM or delegate chairs the DMAWG; develops DMAWG charter.
         2.3.8. Develops DMAP.
         2.3.9. PSMs will participate in all pre- and post-milestone meetings to ensure
         sustainment measures are being addressed and worked during the acquisition process.
         (T-2).
         2.3.10. Review DSOR decisions as required by AFI 63-101.
 6                                                                 AFSPCI21-135 28 MAY 2014


        2.3.11. Ensures funds are programmed to support depot activation planning and
        execution.
     2.4. HQ AFMC.
        2.4.1. Develops forms and tools required for DSOR processing.
        2.4.2. Develops guides and training for AF DSOR processing.
        2.4.3. Coordinates with AFSPC on processes and tools required to process DSOR
        decisions for space programs acquired by SMC.
        2.4.4. Approves DSOR determinations for AF systems, sub-systems and end items.
3. DSOR Process.
     3.1. Introduction. DSOR approval shall be completed prior to MS B and before entering
     into any form of long-term contract for public sector depot support of space and/or SMC
     managed systems. (T-1). However, efforts should be made to complete the DSOR as early
     as possible prior to MS B. Unless program classification prohibits use, all actions required to
     initiate and complete a SORA package will be accomplished using the DSOR AMS.
        3.1.1. Funds shall not be obligated for establishing a long-term depot level maintenance
        capability prior to the DSOR assignment decision and approval. (T-1).
     3.2. Initiation. The PM, or their designated staff, first assesses the program to determine the
     applicable type of workload (new start, modification, workload shift, etc.) and then selects
     the appropriate template.
     3.3. New Acquisition, New Work, Modification Follow-On. The PM initiates the SORA
     process by requesting a candidate depot and core assessment from HQ AFMC/A4DC (HQ
     AFMC/A5J for Special Access Program (SAP) programs) by submitting Template A with
     Phase 1 data completed. At this point, HQ AFMC/A4DC determines candidate depots and
     provides direction to the PM for completion of SORA process. The PM should submit the
     Template A Phase 1 SORA information with sufficient lead time so HQ AFMC/A4DC can
     respond with a determination for use during the development of RFP/Acquisition Strategy
     Panel (ASP) packages and contract award.
        3.3.1. Phase 1. Phase 1 provides information to HQ AFMC in order to identify Air
        Force candidate depot assignment(s), other Service candidate depots who may be
        interested in the workload, core assessments, and strategic 50/50 assessments. Template
        A format and instructions are located in the DSOR AMS. The PM forwards Template A
        Phase 1 data to HQ AFMC/A4DC (through HQ AFMC/A5J for SAP DSORs) once
        complete.
            3.3.1.1. The PM will notify SMC/SLA when the DSOR process is initiated. (T-2).
            The PM/PSM may include a recommended candidate depot based on knowledge of
            the technology employed by the system or based on experience maintaining other
            comparable systems/capabilities with similar technologies. SLA will provide support
            with the latest information on the DSOR process. In addition, SLA will be
            responsible for tracking program status in completing DSOR processing and reporting
            it to higher headquarters as required. (T-2).
AFSPCI21-135 28 MAY 2014                                                                       7


         3.3.1.2. The PM shall ensure that the estimated cost for acquiring the required data
         rights, along with associated unique support and test equipment, for both hardware
         and software depot level maintenance is included in the Cost Analysis Requirements
         Description (CARD) (T-1).
         3.3.1.3. If a SORA is determined necessary, the PM receives candidate depot and
         core assessment notification along with requirement to complete the SORA.
         3.3.1.4. The exit criteria for Phase 1 are identification of candidate depot(s) and core
         assessment notification.
  3.4. Phase 2. Phase 2 should begin immediately following Phase 1; Phase 2 may or may not
  require full completion. If the PM/PSM is recommending an organic source of repair for a
  core workload, only the Depot Peacetime Repair Hours and Recurring Repair Cost need to be
  filled in for 50/50 analysis. All others require full completion of Phase 2. The primary Phase
  2 activities, listed in order of accomplishment are:
     3.4.1. Form a DSOR Team. Completion of the DSOR package is a collaborative effort
     involving other stakeholder organizations. Once candidate depot(s) are identified, they
     will assign points of contact to become members of the DSOR team. The PSM/DSOR
     team lead includes other key stakeholders as team members; e.g., other Service’s
     representatives for joint programs, lead/using commands, etc.
     3.4.2. Develop a Depot Maintenance Strategy. The PSM/DSOR team develops a depot
     maintenance strategy and contributes to updating the Life Cycle Sustainment Plan
     (LCSP). During Phase 1, a core assessment was completed to determine core workloads
     that should be accomplished organically. The DSOR team should ensure all
     requirements for depot activation are included in the RFP to support stand-up of organic
     core capabilities not later than four years after Initial Operational Capability (IOC). For
     non-core items, the DSOR team structures a depot maintenance strategy that yields a best
     value repair source to include PPP strategies where feasible. The DSOR team should
     ensure the elements required to support these strategies are included in the RFP. The
     depot maintenance strategy should also define the process and obtain appropriate
     information by which depot maintenance SOR assignments can be made. Additionally,
     the depot maintenance strategy should address budgeting for organic depot activation.
     The PM will submit funding requirements for organic depot activation to the AFSPC
     Program Element Monitor (PEM) and AFSPC A4/7 for input into the POM/FYDP. (T-
     1).
     3.4.3. All RFPs released in Phase 2 and later shall include a requirement for a priced
     option for engineering/technical data for organic depot repair of hardware and software,
     and the engineering/technical data required to perform life cycle sustainment engineering
     activities. (T-1). Ensure Software Escrow Services are addressed and appropriately
     applied contractually. Additionally, there shall be a priced option for the test and support
     equipment required for organic hardware and software depot maintenance, as well as all
     support and training required from the offer or to assist with organic depot stand-up, such
     as Technical Interchange Meetings (TIMs) to help the organic depot become familiar
     with the depot repair workload. (T-1).
8                                                            AFSPCI21-135 28 MAY 2014


    3.4.4. Core Workloads. Core is organic depot capability and workload required to assure
    mission support for war-tasked systems. Core does not mean government personnel must
    repair 100% of a system, but have “capability” to perform depot maintenance on the
    system. Core percentage should be equal to the % of system depot maintenance
    workload necessary to support CJCS taskings. Core workload requirements may be met
    by utilizing a Depot Maintenance Public Private Partnering strategy. If, during the
    DMAWG activities, information becomes available that impacts the approved decision or
    changes the assigned candidate depot(s), the PM shall initiate a workload shift SORA.
    (T-2).
    3.4.5. Non-Core Workloads. Non-partnered/non-core workloads will rely more heavily
    on cost as a driver in the DSOR decision. The PM obtains data sufficient to support a
    DSOR recommendation based on best value. For this reason, Phase 2 data sections must
    be completed.
       3.4.5.1. The preferred cost assessment template is available at the DSOR CoP for
       performing cost assessments, cost comparisons between potential sources of repair
       (i.e., organic and contract) documents, recurring and non-recurring costs, and
       benefits.
    3.4.6. The exit criteria for Phase 2 is completion of the rest of the template. Once both
    Phases 1 and 2 information are complete, the template is ready for approval. The PM
    will coordinate the final SORA package with HQ AFSPC A4/7 prior to submitting for
    approval by SMC/CC and submission to HQ AFMC for final disposition. (T-1).
    Template A may or may not require a cost analysis. The following situations apply:
       3.4.6.1. SORAs with a core requirement and recommendation for organic
       sustainment do not require a cost analysis.
       3.4.6.2. DSOR team agrees to recommend a SOR without a cost estimate for non-
       core programs. Sufficient information may exist on some workloads to support a
       SOR recommendation without the need for an extensive cost estimate. Examples
       include workloads where an organic capability already exists or sufficient commercial
       repair sources are available and the organic set-up cost is understood to be
       unnecessary in ensuring a ready and controlled source of support. The DSOR team
       must document the SOR recommendation, complete with supporting rationale (e.g.,
       describe the advantages of the recommendation, complete with supporting rationale),
       and seek SORA approval.
       3.4.6.3. DSOR team requires a more extensive cost estimate to develop a best value
       recommendation. Sufficient information may not exist on some workloads to support
       a SOR recommendation. In these cases, it is necessary to accomplish a costing effort
       to support the recommendation.
       3.4.6.4. In the event of a non-concurrence between a program office and an organic
       depot, the candidate depot will document non-concurrence and return it with the
       SORA template to the program office. The program office will try to resolve the
       issue between the affected depot(s). If consensus cannot be obtained within 45
       calendar days, the program office will staff the SORA package including the non-
AFSPCI21-135 28 MAY 2014                                                                      9


         concurrence memo for resolution through HQ AFSPC A4/7 and HQ AFMC/A4. (T-
         2).
         3.4.6.5. Approval from the Milestone Decision Authority (MDA) is required to
         proceed past Milestone B (or contract award for modifications) for programs without
         a final DSOR decision. The PM shall provide the MDA with (1) justification for the
         delay in DSOR approval, (2) an assessment of potential impact to sustainment, and
         (3) an estimated DSOR completion date (T-1).
             3.4.6.5.1. SMC/SLA will track all late DSOR packages to include completion
             plans developed by the PM and will provide status to HQ AFSPC/A4S. (T-2).
  3.5. Workload Shift. The PM will complete Template B for workload shift items. (T-2).
  Template B format and instructions are located in the Templates Folder at the DSOR
  SharePoint Community site.
     3.5.1. Phase 1. The PM initiates the SORA using Template B as soon as the need for a
     potential workload shift exists. The PM should complete Phase 1 information and
     forward the template to HQ AFMC/A4DC who will provide the PM with the candidate
     depot and core assessment. The PM identifies the proposed new repair source and
     provides appropriate rationale. The exit criteria for Phase 1 are for the PM to obtain a
     candidate depot assignment and a core assessment.
     3.5.2. Phase 2. To facilitate coordination, the PM shall establish a DSOR team
     consisting of Government stakeholders affected by the proposed workload shift. (T-2).
     If the workload shift involves more than one organic repair source, each organic source
     must coordinate on the final SORA package prior to submission to HQ AFMC/A4DC.
     (T-2). The PM will coordinate the final SORA package with HQ AFSPC A4/7 prior to
     approval by SMC/CC and submission to HQ AFMC/A4DC. (T-2).
  3.6. Commercial Items and the DSOR Process. Commercial items are not exempt from
  the DSOR process; however, the requirements under 10 USC § 2464(a)(3) do not apply to
  items determined to be commercial items. The first time a weapon system or other item of
  military equipment is determined to be a commercial item for purposes of this exception, the
  Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a notification of the determination, together
  with the justification for the determination to include at least the minimum information
  required by the statute. A commercial item for these purposes is an end-item, assembly,
  subassembly, or part sold or leased in substantial quantities to the general public and
  purchased by DoD without modification in the same form that they are sold in the
  commercial marketplace, or with minor modifications to meet Federal Government
  requirements.
     3.6.1. The PM s h all initiate the justification for the determination of a commercial item
     for these purposes, containing, at a minimum, the information described in 10 USC§
     2464(c)(2)(A-C). (T-1):
         3.6.1.1. The estimated percentage of commonality of parts of the version of the item
         that is sold or leased in the commercial marketplace and the Government's version of
         the item.
 10                                                             AFSPCI21-135 28 MAY 2014


          3.6.1.2. The value of any unique support and test equipment and tools that are
          necessary to support the military requirements if the item were maintained by the
          Government.
          3.6.1.3. A comparison of the estimated life cycle logistics support costs that would be
          incurred by the Government if the item were maintained by the private sector with the
          estimated life cycle logistics support costs that would be incurred by the Government
          if the item were maintained by the Government.
      3.6.2. An approved exclusion from 10 USC § 2464 does not relieve the requirement to
      complete SORA by MS-B or MS-C for programs with no MS-B.
   3.7. Documentation. The PM office s h al l create and retain an official DSOR folder in
   DSOR AMS. (T-2). This folder serves as a repository for all DSOR-related documentation:
   appropriate templates, assessments, memorandums, and other pertinent documentation used
   in making the DSOR determination. The approved DSOR package documents the depot
   level maintenance posturing decision.
4. Depot Maintenance Interservice (DMI) Process.
   4.1. Introduction. Both SORA and DMI together constitute a DSOR decision. The
   DMI review is required for new acquisitions, modifications, and some shifts. Some
   exclusions from DMI review exist (i.e., software workloads). HQ AFMC/A4D will notify
   the program office and HQ AFSPC/A4S of the requirement for DMI submittal after SORA
   completion.
   4.2. After SORA determination, and as soon as information becomes available to complete
   the required DMI Template, the PM submits the template to HQ AFMC/A4DC (HQ
   AFMC/A5J for SAP programs) for DMI submittal.
   4.3. Once the DMI review is completed, HQ AFMC/A4DC will release a joint DSOR
   decision memorandum to the appropriate parties. The PM and DMAWG team completes
   activities to implement the DSOR decision.
5. Depot Maintenance Activation.
   5.1. DMAWG Overview. The DMAWG is formally initiated after DSOR completion. The
   DSOR team will provide a foundation of information for the DMAWGs. If the organic
   candidate depot is another Service, the selected depot will provide the same support to the
   program office for sustainment planning and implementation. The PSM will chair the
   DMAWG and supervise the MAPTs. (T-2). The selected depot will provide support to the
   DMAWG and MAPTs, as required, to ensure the timely stand up of capability (hardware and
   software). The Acquisition Sustainment (AS) Tool Kit is a source of information for depot
   maintenance planning (reference AFI 63-101_20-101). The AS Tool Kit lays out DMAP
   tasks      by       phase.            This       tool      can       be      found       at:
   https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=MC-LG-01-82.
      5.1.1. The DMAWG will have, as a minimum, the following voting members: The PSM
      or delegate as chair; MAPT lead assigned by each selected depot that has an assigned
      workload; and the owning Major Command. Non-voting members may consist of: The
      contractor and HQ AFMC/A4DC. For Joint programs, the DMAWG will include the
      other Services’ depot and Maintenance Interservice Support Management Office. (T-2).
AFSPCI21-135 28 MAY 2014                                                                       11


      5.1.2. The PSM is the individual with functional responsibility for the sustainment
      portion of a system’s life cycle in support of a PM. The PSM acts as sustainment
      champion to ensure that sustainment issues are addressed early in the acquisition process.
      5.1.3. The PM, with support of the PSM, ensures that organic capability exists no later
      than four years after achieving IOC (hereafter known as IOC+4) or is fielded in support
      of operations (10 USC § 2464(a)(3)(B). (T-1).
      5.1.4. Each candidate depot shall establish a MAPT and each MAPT may have multiple
      IPTs. The DMAWG will be responsible for the depot activation of the system assigned.
      The MAPT will provide the DMAWG with a schedule and regular updates on the
      progress of the workload. The DMAWG and PSM are responsible to ensure that the
      schedule is maintained, and that the PM and selected depot are aware of all
      developments.
      5.1.5. One of the main products of the DMAWG is the DMAP. The DMAP depicts the
      events, resources, and schedules required to achieve an organic depot maintenance
      capability.
6. Depot Maintenance Activation Planning And Contract Strategy.
   6.1. Development. The PM/PSM is responsible for developing the DMAP and contract
   strategy to achieve depot maintenance. Preparation for depot maintenance activation should
   be reflected in appropriate updates to the LCSP to include organizational roles and
   responsibilities. Contracts shall include data rights, as required, to support planned depot
   activations. In addition, the contract should include as required analysis and support from the
   developing contractor for depot activation planning. (T-1).
      6.1.1. Depot activation planning will include: (1) an iterative Supportability Analysis to
      include, but not limited to, Level of Repair Analysis (LORA), and Maintenance Task
      Analysis at the time of the Preliminary Design Review (PDR). These decisions will be
      reassessed at the Critical Design Review (CDR); and (2) Support subsystem design
      requirements that are concurrent with weapon hardware development.
   6.2. Formal Planning. Formal depot maintenance activation planning will begin as soon as
   possible following DSOR completion.
      6.2.1. The formal establishment of the DMAWG will occur not later than MS B for new
      acquisitions, or at program initiation if, due to system maturity, process entrance is post
      MS B. The PSM will chair the DMAWG. (T-2). The DMAWG will consist of core
      representatives from the lead command, product center, program office, candidate depot
      or other depot sources of support. (T-2). Other participants may be included (e.g., HQ
      AFMC/A4D, contractor(s), AFMETCAL). For Joint programs, the Air Force PM should
      ensure the other service representatives are members of the DMAWG.
      6.2.2. An initial DMAP will be developed by the DMAWG within 90 days of approving
      the DMAWG charter. The DMAP shall be coordinated through, and approved by, the
      DMAWG members. (T-2).
   6.3. Modifications to DMAP. The DMAPs will be reviewed annually and updated as
   significant engineering and/or funding changes occur. Participating activities shall report all
   status changes of the DMAP implementation to the DMAWG chair. (T-2).
 12                                                              AFSPCI21-135 28 MAY 2014


7. Funding.
   7.1. Defense Funding Requirements.
      7.1.1. The PM/PSM/IM, with assistance of the DMAWG, will assist in development and
      defense of funding requirements for support of organic depot activation, and recommend
      execution priorities. (T-1).
      7.1.2. Programs submit funded workload requirements through the Program and Budget
      Review process that entails validation, consolidation, and approval of budget
      requirements.
         7.1.2.1. There is no limitation on the amount of funding for Maintenance and Repair
         (M&R) however, there are several approval and notification requirements.
      7.1.3. MILCON Program provides major facility construction on AF installations. This
      includes projects for all types of buildings, airfield pavements, and utility systems costing
      $750K or more. The source of funds for the MILCON program is an annual
      appropriation by Congress. Projects are “line item” approved by Congress during the
      approval of the President’s Budget. MILCON projects are currently funded for Current
      Mission, New Mission, and Depot Maintenance Transformation. Projects can also be
      funded through Congressional Inserts. (See AFMCI 21-109, Air Force Depot
      Maintenance Activity Group Facilities and Equipment, 18 May 2009 and AFI 32-1021,
      Planning and Programming Military Construction (MILCON) Projects.)




                                            JEFFREY C. ALLEN, SES, DAF
                                            Director of Logistics, Installations
                                              and Mission Support
AFSPCI21-135 28 MAY 2014                                                                     13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-1021, Planning and Programming Military Construction (MILCON) Projects, 14 June
2010
AFI 32-1032, Planning and Programming Appropriated Funded Maintenance, Repair, and
Construction Projects, 15 October 2003
AFI 63-101_20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013
AFMCI 21-109, Air Force Depot Maintenance Activity Group Facilities and Equipment, 18 May
2009
DoDD 4151.18, Maintenance of Military Materiel, 31 March 2004
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 8 December 2008 10 USC § 2320,
Rights in Technical Data
10 USC § 2464, Core Depot-Level Maintenance and Repair Capabilities
10 USC § 2466, Limitations on the Performance of Depot Level Maintenance of Materiel
10 USC § 2474, Centers of Industrial and Technical Excellence: Designation; Public-Private
Partnerships
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
50/50—refers to 10 USC § 2466 that states no more than 50% of depot maintenance dollars may
be spent for contract repair.
AF—(United States) Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMETCAL—Air Force Metrology and Calibration AFNWC —Air Force Nuclear Warfare
Center
AFPEO—Air Force Program Executive Officer
AFSC—Air Force Sustainment Center
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
ALC—Air Logistics Center
AMS—Automated Management System
 14                                                    AFSPCI21-135 28 MAY 2014


AS—Acquisition Sustainment
ASD—Assistant Secretary of Defense
AT&L—Acquisition, Technology and Logistics
RD—Cost Analysis Requirements Description
CC—Commander
CDR—Critical Design Review CoP —Community of Practice DLR —Depot-Level Repairable
DMAP—Depot Maintenance Activation Plan
DMAWG—Depot Maintenance Activation Working Group
DMI—Depot Maintenance Interservicing
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DSOR—Depot Source of Repair
EMD—Engineering and Manufacturing Development
HQ—Headquarters
ICS—Interim Contractor Support
ILS—Integrated Logistics Support
IM—Item Manager
IMT—Information Management Tool
IOC—Initial Operations Capability
IPT—Integrated Process Team
LCSP—Life Cycle Sustainment Plan
LORA—Level of Repair Analysis
MAPT—Maintenance Activation Planning Team
MDA—Milestone Decision Authority
MDAP—Major Defense Acquisitions Program
MILCON—Military Construction
NII—Networks and Information Integration
PDR—Preliminary Design Review
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PGM—Product Group Manager
PM—Program Manager
POM/FYDP—Program Objective Memorandum/Future Years Defense Program
AFSPCI21-135 28 MAY 2014                                                                       15


PPP—Public-Private Partnership
PSM—Product Support Manager
RFP—Request for Proposal
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
SOR—Source of Repair
ORA—Source of Repair Assignment
USC—United States Code
USD—Under Secretary of Defense
USECAF—Under Secretary of the Air Force

Terms
Design—Those characteristics of a system or computer software configuration interface that are
selected by the developer in response to the requirements. Some will match the requirements;
others will be elaborations of requirements, such as definitions of all error messages in response
to a requirement to display error messages; others will be implementation related, such as
decisions about what software units and logic to use to satisfy the requirements.
Critical Design Review—A multi-disciplined technical review to ensure that the system under
review can proceed into system fabrication, demonstration, and test; and can meet the stated
performance requirements within cost (program budget), schedule (program schedule), risk, and
other system constraints. This review assesses the system final design as captured in product
specifications for each configuration item in the system (product baseline), and ensures that each
product in the product baseline has been captured in the detailed design documentation.
Documentation—A collection of data, regardless of the medium on which it is recorded, that
generally has permanence and can be read by humans or machines.
Interim Contractor Support (ICS)—A temporary support method for an initial period of
operation for a system, sub-system, training system, equipment or end-item.
Milestone Decision Authority (MDA)—The individual designated, in accordance with criteria
established by the USD (AT&L), by the ASD (NII) for Automated Information System
acquisition programs; for approval entry of a DOD Space program into the next acquisition
phase, USECAF is the designated MDA for major defense acquisition programs (MDAP) and for
non-MDAP space programs, it is delegated to AFPEO Space.
Partnering—Partnering arrangements include, but are not limited to: (1) use of public sector
facilities and employees to perform work or produce goods for the private sector, (2) private
sector use of public depot equipment and facilities to perform work for either the public or
private sector, and (3) work-sharing arrangements using both public and private sector facilities
and/or employees. Work-sharing arrangements share similar characteristics to customer-supplier
partnerships. Partnering arrangements exclude the normal service contracting arrangements
where contract personnel are used to supplement or assist depot personnel in performing work in
depot facilities.
 16                                                             AFSPCI21-135 28 MAY 2014


Preliminary Design Review—The PDR is a multi-disciplined technical review to ensure that
the system under review can proceed into detailed design, and can meet the stated performance
requirements within cost (program budget), schedule (program schedule), risk, and other system
constraints. Generally, this review assesses the system preliminary design as captured in
performance specifications for each configuration item in the system (allocated baseline), and
ensures that each function in the functional baseline has been allocated to one or more system
configuration items.
Program Management—The process whereby a single leader exercises centralized authority
and responsibility for planning, organizing, staffing, controlling, and leading the combined
efforts of participating/assigned contractor and organic personnel and organizations, for the
management of a specific program or programs, throughout the system life cycle.
SORA (DSOR) Support—Providing support for completion of the Source of Repair
Assignment, a.k.a. Depot Source of Repair process.
Subsystem Design—Analysis, planning, and definition of a functional grouping of components
that combine to perform a major function within an element such as electrical power, attitude
control, and propulsion.
Test—Any program or procedure which is designed to obtain, verify, or provide data for the
evaluation of any of the following: (1) progress in accomplishing developmental objectives; (2)
the performance, operational capability and suitability of systems, subsystems, components, and
equipment items; and (3) the vulnerability and lethality of systems, subsystems, components, and
equipment items.
