BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                              HANDBOOK 32-1004

                                                                             15 AUGUST 2009
                                                             Certified Current, 18 October 2011
                                                                             Civil Engineering

                                                    FACILITIES EXCELLENCE PROGRAM
                                                          AND STANDARDS HANDBOOK


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading on the e-publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: A4/7PP                                            Certified by: A4/7P (Mr. Gary T. Maher)
Supersedes: AFSPCH32-1004, 2 Jun 2003.                                               Pages: 78



This handbook implements provisions of AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities. This
handbook provides guidance and standards to be applied in achieving facilities excellence within
Air Force Space Command units. Standards are proven by experience in industry and in other
military applications to be effective in maintaining the most cost efficient life cycle for the
physical plant and infrastructure supporting our missions. It applies to Headquarters Air Force
Space Command (AFSPC) and its Numbered Air Forces (NAF) and their assigned wings.
including the Space and Missile Center (SMC) and to facilities acquired under weapons system
programs. This handbook applies to overseas AFSPC facilities unless specifically overridden by
international treaty, host nation agreement or host tenant support agreement. It also applies to
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units. Unless specifically
exempted and regardless of funding source, this handbook applies to all organizations
constructing or renovating facilities on AFSPC installations. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through
the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/
2                                                       AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. These changes
include updated information on sustainable/green design and energy. There is updated
information in the Interior Design, Architectural, Mechanical, Civil and Electrical chapters.
Also, Attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting Information is updated to reflect
new UFC titles and the most current references. Attachment 2, Tables A2.1-A2.9, have been
deleted.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                       3



                                            Chapter 1

                      THE FACILITIES EXCELLENCE PROGRAM

1.1. Program Philosophy:
   1.1.1. Purpose:
       1.1.1.1. The Facilities Excellence Program provides sustainable, efficient, fully
       functional facilities that support our mission and represent a wise investment of public
       funds. This aspect of facilities excellence involves quality design, construction,
       maintenance, and repair of our facilities and infrastructure to assure mission requirements
       are fully met at an appropriately low life-cycle cost. In this context, facilities excellence
       is not “gold plating,” but the provision of facilities that fully meet mission needs, and the
       needs of the people performing that mission, both functionally and aesthetically.
       1.1.1.2. Facilities excellence extends beyond just the physical facilities, it must
       incorporate sustainable strategies and technologies.     Sustainability and facilities
       excellence go hand in hand. All projects, regardless of fund source, shall incorporate
       sustainable strategies to reduce our environmental footprint and operations costs in
       accordance with current Air Force policy.
       1.1.1.3. Facilities excellence is also an attitude and a state of mind that motivates people
       to take pride in, and care for their working and living environment. The appearance of
       the workplace has a notable positive impact on the pride and productivity of a unit.
       Facilities excellence promotes an attitude of attention to detail, and can contribute to
       pride in the workplace, pride in the individual, and pride in unit performance; which
       translates to improved mission performance and productivity.
       1.1.1.4. The self help program is another aspect of facilities excellence wherein people
       can more promptly address facility needs, obtain pride of accomplishment and fosters
       higher unit performance. Facilities are often cared for more closely when self-help
       improvements are accomplished.
   1.1.2. Facilities Excellence Guide. Command policy, general guidelines, specific
   guidelines, and pictorial examples of facilities excellence within AFSPC are included in the
   AFSPC Facilities Excellence Guide published by HQ AFSPC/A4/7P.
1.2. Facilites Excellence Plan (FEP):
   1.2.1. Purpose:
       1.2.1.1. Achieving facilities excellence requires careful planning and articulation of
       standards. While this handbook defines Command-wide standards, many standards are
       and must be unique to an installation, whether the installation is a large installation, small
       installation, or a geographically separated unit. To insure these installation-specific
       standards are fully developed and consistently applied, a FEP is required at each
       installation, regardless of its size. AFSPC installations with or without a Comprehensive
       Plan or General Plan should develop the FEP as a stand-alone document. The FEP
       should be available base-wide through the installation’s intranet. Installations with a
       Comprehensive Planning Framework in place, may include the FEP as a chapter within
4                                                           AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


       this document. When an AFSPC organization is a tenant on a non-AFSPC installation,
       the FEP should include standards only for those areas for which the AFSPC organization
       has responsibility and be      coordinated with the host installation. The FEP must
       recognize the cultural, environmental, climatic and existing facility conditions particular
       to an installation. The FEP must also define the appropriate styles, finishes, materials
       and furnishings to be used to achieve the best facility life-cycle costs and still retain the
       appropriate environment for people to achieve their highest productivity and efficiency.
    1.2.2. Elements: The Facilities Excellence Plan should include the following elements:
       1.2.2.1. A mission statement for the unit. For large installations, include the host unit,
       such as the wing, and significant major subordinate units, such as groups and tenants.
       Clearly define the mission performed by the unit and characterize the types of facilities
       required to support that mission in a concise one or two paragraph statement.
       1.2.2.2. A brief description of the installation. Provide the essential statistics of the
       installation, such as the size of population it supports, number of acres, number of
       buildings, miles of roads, etc… in this section of the plan. Also include a clear
       description of the regional, cultural, and climatic conditions, as well as, existing
       architectural styles and materials to be found on the installation. Provide a basis for the
       selection of architectural styles and materials selected as the installation standard in this
       section. Include example photos illustrating desirable features.
       1.2.2.3. Definition of standards to be implemented at the installation. As a minimum,
       define the acceptable quality, style and materials to be used for the following:
           1.2.2.3.1. Exterior building character. Define architectural character areas as needed
           due to the size of the installation or location of existing architectural styles or types.
           Identify and validate the architectural theme or themes used on the installation. Strive
           to create a thread of continuity without causing monotony when defining architectural
           schemes.
              1.2.2.3.1.1. Roof system. Define acceptable roofing systems, styles, materials,
              colors and finishes. Always consider energy efficient roof systems first
              (Example: Energy Star TM rated roof systems). Consider high-albedo and low-
              maintenance “extensive” vegetated roofs to reduce energy consumption and aid
              in compliance with ASHRAE 90.1 and current energy policies.
              1.2.2.3.1.2. Fenestration. (Defined as the arrangement, proportioning, and design
              of windows and doors in a building façade.) Identify the acceptable style of
              fenestration. Include specific information related to fenestration such as
              laminated, double or triple glazing, tinting, window frame material, acceptable
              window styles, and colors of window frames and window glazing. Comply with
              current energy policies and antiterrorism requirements when selecting window
              systems.
              1.2.2.3.1.3. Exterior finishes and materials. Clearly define the exterior finishes
              and materials that are both acceptable and specifically not acceptable on the
              installation. Define where the various finishes and materials are appropriate.
              Show examples of approved and allowed colors, textures, and decorative items as
              necessary.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                  5


           1.2.2.3.1.4. Paint colors. Define the approved exterior paint colors for all
           applications. Define where these colors are appropriately used. Provide paint
           product numbers, using industry standard and actual paint chips to eliminate
           guesswork. All paint must meet Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA)
           recommended recycled-content for reprocessed latex paints.         For GSA
           procurements, EPA recommends procuring agencies refer to CID A-A-3185 when
           purchasing reprocessed paint. (http://www.epa.gov/cpg/products/paint.htm)
        1.2.2.3.2. Building interior finishes. Define approved facility interior finishes. Color
        boards showing examples of interior finishes and how they coordinate with other
        elements of the interior environment, such as ceiling materials, floor coverings, trim,
        furnishings, etc… are recommended.
           1.2.2.3.2.1. Floor coverings.      Define the style, color, quality level, and
           appropriate application for the various approved floor coverings to be used on the
           installation. Include specific information for carpet, vinyl tile, linoleum, stained
           concrete floors, special floor coverings in shop and maintenance areas, and raised
           computer room flooring. All installations must meet or exceed the Engineering
           Technical Letter (ETL) 07-4, Air Force Carpet Standard.                   See EPA
           recommendations for low traffic wear carpets and carpet cushion with recycled
           content. (http://www.epa.gov/cpg/products/carpcush.htm)
           1.2.2.3.2.2. Furnishings. Furnishings include modular, freestanding, and systems
           furniture styles, configurations, electrical wiring, communications connectivity,
           minimum standards, and colors if applicable. Style of furniture may also be
           noted. Include sample furniture configurations of offices that meet the space
           requirements. Systems furniture cubicles shall be no smaller than 64 square feet.
           1.2.2.3.2.3. Wall coverings. Define the colors, textures, quality levels, and
           appropriate application for the approved wall coverings used on the installation.
           All vinyl wall covering will be a minimum of a Type II vinyl, 20-21 ounces
           except in GOQs where residential grade vinyl or Type I Vinyl is acceptable. Any
           fabric wall covering must meet the UBC 8-2, Corner Burn Test.
           1.2.2.3.2.4. Interior plants and artwork. Identify approved plants and artwork
           styles to be used on the installation, and where they are appropriate. Provide
           guidance on the height and spacing of artwork.
           1.2.2.3.2.5. Trim materials. Define style, color, finish, material, texture, and size
           for such elements as baseboard trim, chair rail, door and window trim, door
           hardware, and light fixture type. Clearly articulate where these trim elements are
           appropriate, by individual building or room if necessary.
           1.2.2.3.2.6. Interior color palettes. Define approved interior color combinations.
           Define the type and quality level of materials to be used in various applications.
           1.2.2.3.2.7. Interior signage. Define the style, type, material, lettering size and
           font, to be used on all interior signs on the installation, or by facility or zone if
           applicable. Select a system that allows easy changes to lettering. Signage shall
           conform to the requirements of UFC 3-120-01, Air Force Sign Standards.
6                                                    AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


       1.2.2.3.2.8. Window treatments (i.e., drapes, blinds). Define the type of window
       treatment to be used, along with the approved colors, style and texture.
       Standardize treatments within buildings or groups of buildings to the maximum
       extent possible. All window treatments must meet a class-A fire rating and ATFP
       requirements.
    1.2.2.3.3. Landscaping. Define the style and kinds of landscaping to be employed on
    the installation, by zone or application (i.e., parking lot, building entries). Define the
    materials to be used, including the type, color and size. Clearly identify the
    appropriate application for the various types of approved materials. Include an
    approved plant list suitable for the environment the climatic conditions, and
    sustainable requirements yet with enough variety to avoid monotony.
       1.2.2.3.3.1. Xeric materials and outdoor plant list. Define the materials to be
       used, including the type, color and size. Clearly identify the appropriate
       application for the various types of approved materials. Include an approved
       plant list suitable for the environment, the climatic conditions, and sustainable
       requirements yet with enough variety to avoid monotony.
    1.2.2.3.4. Edging, paving and curbing. Define the approved materials, styles and
    colors to be used in various applications throughout the installation. Identify
    appropriate applications of materials by zone or area if necessary. Show examples of
    correct usage.
    1.2.2.3.5. Exterior amenities.     Define appropriate exterior amenities for the
    installation. Provide specifications/definitive drawings where appropriate. Exterior
    amenities should be consistent with the architectural theme of the installation or area.
    Amenities include trash receptacles, newspaper vending machines, and similar items.
       1.2.2.3.5.1. Exterior furniture and playground equipment. Define the style,
       colors, texture, and type of exterior furniture and playground equipment to be
       used throughout the installation or area. Consider playground equipment and
       surfaces            made           from            recovered         materials.
       (http://www.epa.gov/cpg/products/plgrndeq.htm)
    1.2.2.3.6. Exterior signage. Exterior signs include directional, traffic, informational,
    and all other signs on the installation. Define the specific materials, mounting
    scheme, etc… for the installation. These standards should be consistent with the
    AFSPC standards provided elsewhere in this handbook and comply with UFC 3-120-
    01 Air Force Sign Standards.
    1.2.2.3.7. Fences. Define the approved styles, materials, colors and sizes for fences
    throughout the installation. Identify locations where different styles and types of
    fences are appropriate. Include the installation Fence Plan (see paragraph 2.1.2)
    either directly or by reference.
    1.2.2.3.8. Utility and dumpster enclosures. Define the installation standards for the
    size, style, materials, colors, and type of utility and dumpster enclosures to be used on
    the installation. Ensure enclosures are adequate for garbage and recyclable containers.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                   7


         1.2.2.3.9. Exterior lighting. Define the type, style, and kinds of exterior lighting and
         where it is appropriately used. Define approved lamp fixture types from pedestrian
         walkway bollards to street lamps. Define types of acceptable lighting controls. Do
         not use fixtures / luminaries that produce light pollution, unnecessary glare or in any
         way create a safety hazard for drivers or pedestrians. Control light leaving the site to
         reduce light pollution. Consider the used of LED lighting and stand-alone solar
         applications to reduce energy consumption.
         1.2.2.3.10. Site Development. Define standards for site development including
         building orientation, relationships to other buildings, streets and parking lots, and
         outdoor public space. Consider energy reduction, storm water management, access to
         views, and other environmental factors. Define setbacks for antiterrorism and fire
         department use. Refer to the following for further guidance: UFC 2-000-02AN,
         Installation Master Planning, UFC 3-210-01A, Area Planning, Site Planning and
         Design, UFC 3-210-02, POV Site Circulation and Parking, UFC 3-210-06A, Site
         Planning and Design, UFC 3-210-10, Low Impact Development.
         1.2.2.3.11. Energy Conservation. The Air Force energy vision is to reduce demand
         through conservation and efficiency; increase supply through alternative energy
         sources; and create a culture where all Airmen make energy a consideration in
         everything we do.        The website “Air Force Energy/Utility Program” contains
         definitive facility requirements on energy policy and guidance as well as general
         reference for all aspects of facility/infrastructure energy. The URL address
         is https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/EntryCoP.asp?Filter=OO-EN-
         CE-A4.
     1.2.2.4. Dormitories and military family housing. Define the standards for interiors,
     exteriors, common areas and recreational areas in and around dormitories and military
     family housing. Where features exist that are unique to dormitories and/or family
     housing, reference the Military Family Housing Guide, and the Unaccompanied Housing
     Design Guide and ensure it is coordinated with the FEP.
     1.2.2.5. Other special interest items. Articulate and define standards for other special
     interest items specific to a particular installation. This may include historical features,
     parks, monuments, or special display areas.
     1.2.2.6. Wherever possible, include photographs, samples or color boards in the FEP to
     clearly illustrate and define standards.
  1.2.3. Supporting Plans. Incorporate installation level plans, such as the Fence Plan, Sign
  Plan, Paint Plan, Curbing Plan, Quality of Life Improvements Plan, General Plan and Area
  Development Plans etc., into the FEP by reference. This avoids redundancy. Coordinate
  FEP and supporting plans with the SRM and MILCON programs.
  1.2.4. Annual Review. Review and revalidate the FEP annually IAW AFSPCI32-1008,
  Facilities Board. Provide a copy (this may be electronic) with any changes to HQ
  AFSPC/A4/7P to assist in resource advocacy. Insert into the FEP a cover page letter signed
  by the installation commander endorsing the revalidated FEP.
8                                                          AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


1.3. Facilities Excellence Recognition Program:
    1.3.1. Purpose. A key element of the AFSPC Facilities Excellence Program is the Facilities
    Excellence Recognition Program (FERP). This program biennially recognizes the large
    installation, small installation and geographically separated unit, having the best-maintained
    and resource efficient facilities within AFSPC. It emphasizes the development and execution
    of facilities excellence plans for each installation to ensure the program is strategically
    managed, and encourages spirited competition between AFSPC installations in providing
    quality of life improvements, and high appearance standards. The full goals, objectives,
    procedures, and awards presented under this program are included in AFSPCI 32-1001,
    Facilities Excellence Recognition Program.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                       9


                                            Chapter 2

                                     FENCE STANDARDS

2.1. General:
   2.1.1. Applicability. All AFPSC installations should install fences and screens IAW the
   standards established in this chapter and adhere completely with the provisions of AFI 31-
   101, The Air Force Physical Security Program for controlled and restricted areas. Use the
   type A fence identified in AFI 31-101, for all possible permanent restricted areas. AFSPC
   units tenant on another MAJCOM/DoD installation will adhere to the host command fence
   policy.
   2.1.2. Fence Plan. Fences protect property, define boundaries, and conceal unsightly
   equipment. Each installation should have a Fence Plan minimizing fence requirements and
   identifying appropriate solutions for fencing where required due to the generally undesirable
   visual aspects and the cost of maintenance. Include fence standards approved for an
   installation as part of the FEP. Identify approved fence styles and material types and
   appropriate use areas in the plan. Ensure fence styles are compatible with the installation
   architectural theme. Apart from the FEP, address priorities, phasing, and tentative schedules
   for funding and execution. Careful planning assures fences satisfy the intended purpose with
   the appropriate materials.
2.2. Types Of Fences And Screens:
   2.2.1. Perimeter Fences. Install perimeter fences at all AFSPC installations where
   encroachment or civilian intrusion may occur. Wings should evaluate each site for the
   perimeter fence requirement. Thule AB, Clear AB, and Ascension AFS are examples of
   installations which may not require perimeter fencing because of their isolated geographic
   locations. Perimeter fences are normally a minimum of 6 feet high and may be chain link,
   decorative metal, masonry, concrete, or a combination thereof. The perimeter fence
   establishes a legal boundary and a physical barrier to unauthorized entry.
   2.2.2. Security Fences. Minimize security fences to the interior and present the appropriate
   degree of security for the resources being protected. These fences may be chain link,
   decorative metal, masonry, concrete, or a combination thereof. A theme fence (generally the
   design and materials relating closest to the installation’s architecture) is usually the costliest
   because of the materials and workmanship involved. Limit the use of theme fencing to high-
   visibility public areas. Consider other less costly but effective fence designs for other
   functional use areas of the installation.
   2.2.3. Chain Link Fences. With few exceptions, use chain link fencing only for perimeter
   boundaries, security for restricted or controlled areas (i.e. flight lines, launch complexes,
   missile alert facilities, critical communications facilities), and for some industrial areas.
   Chain link fencing may also be appropriate for Military Family Housing to define yards and
   restrain small children or pets. Use chain link fence outriggers with three-strand barbed wire
   and/or concertina wire for designated permanent restricted areas. Continually challenge the
   need for outriggers on chain link fencing. Bulk storage or equipment yards for Supply,
   Transportation, and Civil Engineering, etc., do not require the barbed wire outrigger and/or
   concertina wire on the top of chain link fence. Use corrosion resistant material on chain link
10                                                         AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


     fencing to reduce maintenance. Coated fence fabric is recommended, and where used, fence
     posts must be coated with the same material. Do not use wood, metal or vinyl slats in chain
     link when concealment of structures or equipment is a primary purpose of the fence. A thick
     screen of evergreen plant materials may be more appropriate.
     2.2.4. Metal Fences. Other metal fencing can be used if it is compatible with the
     installation architectural theme. This kind of fencing provides effective security and
     screening when used appropriately. Use corrosion resistant metal fencing to reduce
     maintenance. Barbed wire fence is discouraged, but may occasionally be appropriate, such
     as in areas where government land is leased for grazing purposes.
     2.2.5. Wooden Fences. Wooden fencing can be an alternative for screening, but should be
     evaluated for life-cycle-cost when compared to a permanent material. If used, stain/treat
     wooden fences to complement adjacent color schemes and to reduce maintenance. Consider
     the use of galvanized metal vertical posts instead of wood. Wooden fences are most
     appropriate in recreational and housing areas. Plant materials are an excellent method of
     “softening” the visual impact of wood. Consider the use of recycled plastic fencing as a
     durable, lower life-cycle cost alternative to wood fencing.
     2.2.6. Masonry and Concrete Fences. Masonry and concrete fences are attractive and
     durable, but have a higher initial cost, and thus should be used sparingly. However, they may
     compare favorably on life-cycle costs. Use them when screening is a major function of the
     fence. Match the materials used to adjacent facilities and/or comply with the installation
     FEP. Stagger or otherwise articulate long masonry or concrete panel walls to avoid
     monotony. Cap and seal masonry walls to minimize efflorescence. Masonry walls are
     recommended at installation gateways and to separate housing from adjacent land uses.
     2.2.7. Equipment Screens. Give careful attention to fences intended to screen heating,
     ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment. Allow adequate airflow for proper
     operation of HVAC equipment and provide sufficient maintenance space. Avoid metal
     fencing surrounding electrical equipment if possible, but if used, bond and ground according
     to the National Electrical Safety Code and the National Electrical Code.
     2.2.8. Earth Berms. Earth berms can be effectively used in place of conventional fencing.
     Berms are appropriate in high-visibility public areas with undesirable views to provide
     concealment where security is not a great concern. When used, ensure earth berms are
     appropriately xeriscaped or landscaped and maintained. Ensure berms are not too large (out
     of scale) or too steep to mow. Refer to paragraph 4.5 Berms for specific requirements.
     Follow the requirements specified in Security Engineering (UFC4-020-01, UFC 4-020-02
     and UFC 4-020-03) For berms used in combination with vegetation, boulders and bollards.
2.3. Mow Strips:
     2.3.1. Design. When installing new fences or sign posts, consider installing a mowing strip
     under the fence and around sign posts to reduce grass and shrub trimming requirements. Use
     either concrete or gravel mow strips. Mow strips are recommended for built-up areas
     requiring frequent landscaping maintenance or lawn mowing, and where appropriate, under
     high security fences. They are not recommended in xeriscaped areas and undeveloped areas.
     2.3.2. Concrete Strips. Concrete mow strips should be a minimum of 12 inches wide (6
     inches either side of the fence or sign centerline) to enable grass-mowing equipment to
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                 11


  adequately trim grass to eliminate the need for further manual trimming with “string-
  trimmers” type equipment.
  2.3.3. Gravel Strips. Gravel mow strips should be a minimum of 24 inches wide (12 inches
  either side of the fence or sign centerline) and be treated or configured with an underlayment
  to prevent vegetation growth.
12                                                         AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


                                            Chapter 3

                                 HARDSCAPE STANDARDS

3.1. Curbs:
     3.1.1. Applicability:
        3.1.1.1. All AFSPC installations shall install curbing according to the AFSPC standards
        established in this chapter and the provisions of joint services manual, TM 5-822-2,
        General Provisions and Geometric Design for Roads, Streets, Walks, and open Storage
        Areas. Existing curbing should not be replaced just to conform to these standards, but
        should be brought into conformance as streets, roads and parking areas are repaired or
        constructed new. AFSPC units tenant on another MAJCOM/DoD installation will adhere
        to the host command curbing policy.
        3.1.1.2. AFSPC is committed to providing curbing for all installation streets and parking
        areas. For the purpose of this policy, streets are defined as paved roadways in built-up
        areas of installations. Roads are defined as paved roadways connecting dispersed built-
        up areas. Curbing offers the following benefits: channels and confines vehicle traffic
        more effectively; provides for control and management of storm water runoff; prevents
        shoulder erosion of paved surfaces; provides a safer separation between pedestrian traffic
        and vehicle traffic; prevents vehicle access to landscaped and turf areas, thus reducing
        erosion and environmental damage; and presents a more ordered and defined appearance
        to our installations.
        3.1.1.3. All paved streets in cantonment or built-up areas. Do not curb dirt and macadam
        roads. Perimeter roads need not be curbed. Paved roads traversing long stretches of
        undeveloped areas need not be curbed if they have proper drainage, built-up shoulders,
        and minimal intersecting roads. When planning curb construction, carefully consider
        possible impacts on storm water management. High curbs requiring backfill can alter
        existing storm water drainage patterns and disturb on-site percolation. Storm water
        permits may also be required by regulatory agencies, with associated retention ponds,
        swales, or other water control devices.
     3.1.2. Curb Types:
        3.1.2.1. Three types of curbs are acceptable for use at AFSPC installations. They are
        barrier curbs; mountable curbs; and header curbs. All curbs will be concrete made from
        cement containing fly-ash with a range of 15 to 35 percent to total cementations material
        EPA Guideline Item (http://www.epa.gov/cpg/products/cement.htm). Asphalt curbs
        are not appropriate, as they are not durable and are expensive to maintain. Selecting an
        incorrect curb section for a particular application is not an improvement to an uncurbed
        street.
            3.1.2.1.1. Barrier curbs (Figure 3.1) are most appropriate for parking lots and
            interior installation streets. Barrier curbs have a face ranging from steeply sloped to
            nearly vertical and are at least 6 inches high. These curbs may need cut-outs for
            handicapped access, mower access, and drainage cuts. Use them wherever stricter
            vehicle control to prevent access onto turf or landscaped areas is required. Where
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                  13


          barrier curbs are used, the ground surface should be level with the back, elevated edge
          of the curb.
          3.1.2.1.2. Mountable curbs (Figure 3.2) are appropriate for housing areas and
          interior installation streets. They do not normally need cut-outs for handicapped
          access or for mower access. Since they allow vehicles to ride over the top, do not use
          in parking lots. Where mountable curbs are used, the ground surface should be level
          with the back, elevated edge of the curb.

Figure 3.1. Barrier Curb.
14                                                       AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


Figure 3.2. Mountable Curb.




            3.1.2.1.3. Header curbs (Figure 3.3) do not restrict access off the shoulder of
            pavements. Use this type of curb for roads outside of cantonment areas to preserve
            road shoulders from erosion, to define boundaries, and for water channels where two
            different pavement sections abut. This curb will be used to provide a straight edge
            but not alter or impede drainage flow. Where header curbs are used, the ground
            surface should be sloped away from the top outside edge of the curb.

Figure 3.3. Header Curb.




     3.1.3. Painting. Painting curbs is prohibited.
3.2. Parking Areas:
     3.2.1. Design:
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                 15


     3.2.1.1. Parking areas should reinforce the experience of arrival at a pedestrian place.
     Landscaped visual buffer areas between the parking lot and the road, and between the
     facility and parking should also be provided. Trees are a positive enhancement and are
     preferred to provide shading and reduce heat island affects. Avoid trees that drop fruit,
     sap or seeds. Consider low maintenance xeriscaping concepts and avoid high
     maintenance landscaping in these transition zones. Consider the relation between the
     facility and the road. Create parking areas that will serve two or more facilities whenever
     possible while avoiding the look of “a large sea of pavement.” Parking areas must be set
     back from buildings IAW ATFP standards.
     3.2.1.2. Parking areas should be as unobtrusive as possible while providing safe and
     convenient parking for users. Do not allow parking lots to become long-term storage
     areas for vehicles. Do-it-yourself maintenance is authorized only in Services auto hobby
     shops and is prohibited in parking lots and other areas.
     3.2.1.3. Off-street parking areas are preferred. On-street perpendicular parking spaces
     are highly discouraged.
  3.2.2. Curbs at Parking Areas. All parking lots will have perimeter curbing of the barrier
  type. Parking blocks are strongly discouraged since they are difficult to maintain and “lock-
  in” specific parking arrangement/layout; however, they are sometimes necessary in existing
  lots to prevent bumper overhang at sidewalks. Design new parking lots to allow for bumper
  overhang without parking blocks. Parking on turf, unimproved grounds, or landscaped areas
  is prohibited, except by service vehicles. Provide curb cuts for handicapped access as
  necessary.
  3.2.3. . Parking for Motorcycles .Ensure motorcycle parking areas are constructed of
  concrete to avoid damage to pavement from motorcycle stands.
  3.2.4. Parking for the Disabled:
     3.2.4.1. Provide parking for the disabled in accordance with the Architectural Barriers
     Act (ABA) for quantity and dimension. Provide the international symbol (white graphic
     on blue field) at each handicapped parking space.
  3.2.5. Parking Islands. Provide islands in large parking lots to define parking areas. It is
  highly recommended that islands in parking lots be landscaped with plants and trees, not
  grass, which requires greater maintenance requirements. Where plants alone are used, low
  maintenance plants are preferred. Consider using "rain gardens" to capture sheet flow runoff.
  Strip all parking lots with white stripes to define parking spaces. Figure 3.4 is a schematic
  diagram of a typical parking lot layout.
16                                                          AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


Figure 3.4. Typical Parking Lot Layout.




     3.2.6. Orientation of Parking Spaces. 90 degree parking with two-way circulation is
     preferred for all parking lots since it requires the least land for a given number of vehicles
     and avoids confusion for motorists.
     3.2.7. Access to Service Areas. Provide access to service area and dumpsters through
     parking areas only when appropriate. Keep this access as distant from the main entrance of
     the facility as possible. Separated service drives are highly encouraged. Consider Force
     Protection issues.
     3.2.8. Area Screening. Visually screen open storage lots.
3.3. Sidewalks And Walkways:
     3.3.1. Design:
        3.3.1.1. Place sidewalks and walkways to facilitate pedestrian traffic between facilities,
        prevent erosion, and enhance installation appearance. Use concrete made from cement
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                   17


      containing fly-ash at a range of 15-35 percent cementations material for sidewalks.
      Asphalt sidewalks are not recommended because of durability, and maintenance.
      Sidewalks should be a minimum of 48 inches wide. Wider sidewalks are recommended
      where pedestrian traffic volume warrants. A five-foot width is more appropriate where
      two-abreast walking is likely to occur. Comply with the Architectural Barriers Act
      (ABA).
      3.3.1.2. Eliminate the narrow planting strips between sidewalks and the curb if on-street
      parking is permitted. For safety reasons, separate sidewalks from high-traffic roadways
      by at least 6 feet.
      3.3.1.3. Use paving brick or stone walkways only to emphasize high profile facilities or
      to achieve some special effect. Use these types of walks sparingly because they are
      traditionally more expensive and require more maintenance than concrete sidewalks.
      3.3.1.4. Ensure Military Family Housing areas have well developed sidewalk systems
      with a sidewalk on at least one side of every residential street. Sidewalks on both sides of
      residential streets are preferred.
      3.3.1.5. Avoid planting trees or shrubs too close to sidewalks. As these plants mature,
      their root systems can damage or destroy sidewalks, and mature plants may obstruct the
      sidewalk without extensive pruning and plant maintenance.
      3.3.1.6. Do not obstruct sidewalks and walkways with signs, plants, outdoor furniture,
      utility equipment or poles. These features can create safety hazards for pedestrians.
3.4. Streets And Pavements:
   3.4.1. Layout:
      3.4.1.1. Lay out all roads and streets parallel to contours whenever possible to reduce
      erosion, visual impact, and grades. Preserve natural features, such as rock outcroppings,
      natural drainage patterns, and vegetation whenever possible when siting new roads or
      streets.
   3.4.2. Hierarchy:
      3.4.2.1. Develop roads and streets in a three tier hierarchy whenever possible. The three
      tiers are primary, secondary and tertiary. Develop each for the appropriate function.
         3.4.2.1.1. Primary roads and streets connect main installation components such as the
         main cantonment area, community center, and flight line areas. These are the highest
         volume streets on an installation.
      3.4.2.2. Secondary roads and streets connect installation components to one another and
      to support facilities, such as cantonment areas to industrial areas, or commercial areas to
      housing areas.
      3.4.2.3. Tertiary roads and streets are normally unpaved access roads or residential
      streets in housing areas. Consolidate existing access roads and streets to minimize
      installation impacts whenever possible. Careful consideration should be given to
      installing “speed bumps” or other speed control devices on tertiary streets in housing
      areas. Care should be taken to consider safety issues that speed bumps present to two-
18                                                          AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


        wheeled vehicles. Installation Commanders have authority to install “speed bumps” if
        local conditions warrant.
     3.4.3. Intersections. Create and maintain clear sight triangles (unobstructed lines of sight at
     intersections) at each intersection corner. The size of the clear sight triangle must match the
     speed of the vehicles approaching the intersection. This area forms a clear sight triangle,
     which must be clear from 2 feet to 6 feet in height. Provide intersection corners with
     appropriate radii based on the type of road, street and vehicle.
     3.4.4. Markings. All road markings shall be painted or tape striping. Use low lead coatings
     for traffic markings. Do not use solid lines where curbing delineates road edges. Conform to
     the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD). Use a 4-inch wide, single
     white stripe to mark parking spaces. Use parallel 24-inch wide, reflective white stripes to
     denote crosswalks. Place the crosswalk stripes parallel to the roadway. Avoid yellow
     painted stripes.
     3.4.5. Utility Cuts. Avoid utility or other cuts in pavement. Whenever possible, use
     tunneling technology to go under pavement with conduits or pipes. Place extra utility line
     conduits during road or street construction or prior to repaving to provide capacity for future
     growth.
3.5. Installation Entry Control Facilities:
     3.5.1. Layout:
        3.5.1.1. Pay particular attention to the arrangement of all elements that are part of the
        installation Entry Control Facility (ECF) to assure adequate security, safety and control
        of visitors. See the UFC 4-022-01, Entry Control Facilities / Access Control Points and
        MTMCTEA Pamphlet 55-15, Traffic and Safety Engineering for Better Entry Control
        Facilities    (http://www.tea.army.mil/) for current information concerning basic
        guidelines for organizing, evaluating, planning, programming and designing Entry
        Control Facilities ECFs for AF installations worldwide. ECFs must be configured to
        allow security to be quickly and easily enhanced.
        3.5.1.2. ECFs serve as the entry point for all personnel, visitors, and deliveries to AF
        installations. The objective of ECFs is to prevent unauthorized access and maximize
        vehicular traffic flow. Priorities in the design of ECFs are Security, Safety, Capacity and
        Image.
        3.5.1.3. Because the ECFs are the first buildings visitors and personnel see when
        entering an installation, the design must convey an immediate impression of
        professionalism, strength, and permanence. Show a commitment to facilities excellence
        and convey the Air Force’s commitment to the protection and safety of AF personnel.
        3.5.1.4. The main gate complex should have a minimum of dual traffic lanes in each
        direction to facilitate high traffic volumes during peak periods. Lane width or spacing
        should permit safety for security personnel standing between lanes. The guardhouse
        should be located on a traffic island located between the entry and departure traffic lanes.
        The ECF layout must be capable of maximizing vehicular traffic flow under elevated
        force protection levels to eliminate undue delays that would affect base operations and
        off-base traffic circulation while maintaining vigilance against acts of terrorism.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                 19


   3.5.2. Barricades. Provide appropriate barricades around the guardhouse at each gate to
   prevent errant vehicles from crashing into the guardhouse and injuring the guard. The
   barricades should be integrated into the facility design and should be disguised as planters,
   decorative walls, or sign mounts. Care must be taken to not obstruct the field of view of the
   guard in the guardhouse.
3.6. Gates:
   3.6.1. Each gate must have a positive means of securing the installation perimeter. Rolling
   gates are recommended, especially at the main gate, rather than swinging gates. Where snow
   and ice buildup occur, a cantilevered, sliding gate may be more practical. Other barricade
   devices may be appropriate for installation specific security requirements.
   3.6.2. Gate mechanisms should be discreetly concealed from all directions using decorative
   walls or landscaping. This concealment feature should be incorporated into the design of the
   gate facilities.
20                                                          AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


                                             Chapter 4

                                  LANDSCAPE STANDARDS

4.1. LANDSCAPE PLAN:
     4.1.1. General:
        4.1.1.1. Landscape architecture is the art and science of designing exterior areas to
        improve visual appeal and functionality including sustainable design principles. It is one
        of the most effective means of improving the appearance and unity of an installation.
        Quality landscape architecture design and implementation also improves the quality of
        life for our people and visitors. Each installation should develop a Landscape Plan
        consistent with the installation’s Comprehensive Plan. The plan should include the
        landscape elements of vegetation, landforms, water features, pavement and walkway
        materials, site amenities, and lighting to maintain continuity throughout the installation.
        These elements can then be used to address specific site concerns such as buildings,
        parking, streets, pedestrian and bicycle movement, plazas and courtyards, open space and
        natural areas, accommodation of local wildlife needs (especially for endangered or
        threatened species), and handicapped accessibility. AFSPC units tenant on another
        MAJCOM/DoD installation will adhere to the host Command’s standards. Landscape
        standards must meet the Air Force Antiterrorism Force Protection Standards.
        4.1.1.2. Landscaping should be included in the design of any project. Project should not
        be considered complete until the entire landscape plan, both plant materials and site
        amenities, are installed.
        4.1.1.3. The total life cycle cost of maintaining the landscape must be taken into account.
        Ensure the plan minimizes the use of hand trimmers, push mowers, and other labor-
        intensive maintenance activities. The plan should also minimize water used for irrigation
        purposes.
        4.1.1.4. Preserve natural environments to the fullest extent practicable. Ensure that the
        environmental footprint of the installation is compact and imposes limited impact on the
        environment. Native vegetation and topography should be maintained to the fullest
        extent practicable.
        4.1.1.5. Provide public spaces such as plazas, monuments and displays organize the
        urban environment and form connections. Develop view corridors from public spaces to
        the landscape beyond the boundaries of the installation.
     4.1.2. Plan Components. The Landscape Plan must include a plant list identifying the types
     and species of plants native to the local environment and appropriate irrigation practices.
     Careful planning and design are as essential for landscaping as they are for building design to
     assure the right balance is maintained and the desired environment is created. The plan
     should address considerations and constraints for both developed and undeveloped areas on
     our installations to create and successful natural environment. A complete landscape plan is
     required before installation of any new landscaping. Consult local experts and installation
     grounds maintenance to develop planting specifications for the local area.
     4.1.3. Assistance and Guidance:
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                     21


       4.1.3.1. The services of a professional landscape architect should be acquired whenever
       possible, preferably through an open-end A-E contract, to help develop landscape plans
       for the installation and site plans for individual areas on an installation where landscaping
       is being modified.
       4.1.3.2. Landscape design guidance is provided in the HQ AFCEE USAF Landscape
       Design      Guide    which     is    available    on    the  AFCEE    website;
       (www.afcee.brooks.af.mil/dc/products/dcproducts.asp).
       4.1.3.3. The degree of formality of the planting scheme should reflect that of the
       accompanying architecture, plaza, or courtyard.
   4.1.4. Plant Uses:
       4.1.4.1. Use vegetation to provide shade, minimize glare, and deflect undesirable winds
       for most CONUS installations. Use deciduous trees at the south, southeast and southwest
       sides of a facility to provide desirable summer shade and allow solar gain during the
       winter. Use evergreen trees and shrubs to control winds and provide year-round
       screening.
       4.1.4.2. Plant materials are preferable to man-made fencing unless security is required.
       Plants “soften” the area and divert the eye to the textures, colors, and variety of shapes of
       the trees and shrubs. Plants are especially suitable for screening electrical transformers,
       etc., where safety dictates that all surrounding metal must be set back a minimum of 8
       feet.
       4.1.4.3. Preserve the existing landscape whenever possible. Use natural forms and
       features in landscape planning. Minimize irrigated, high maintenance areas and
       encourage natural vegetation whenever possible.
4.2. Trees:
   4.2.1. General:
       4.2.1.1. Trees are the focal point of all landscaping efforts. Select native trees
       appropriate to the local environment to minimize maintenance, enhance durability, and
       provide the greatest longevity. Avoid trees that drop fruit, sap or seeds. Use long-lived
       and disease-resistant species.
       4.2.1.2. Use small trees in plazas and courtyards to provide enclosure or screening. Use
       medium trees near buildings, parade grounds and pathways. Use large trees near streets,
       parking lots, and large open space. High branching trees are recommended near parking
       and streets to provide shade, reduce heat gain, and avoid physical or visual hindrance.
   4.2.2. Planting:
       4.2.2.1. Avoid planting trees too close to paved surfaces and buildings. Anticipate the
       growth, root structure and mature size of trees (both diameter and height) when selecting
       a plant site. Avoid planting trees where they will interfere with the installation
       infrastructure, such as sewer lines and electrical power distribution systems, as they grow
       and mature. Remove trees that are too close to structures or that interfere with
       infrastructure components.
22                                                          AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


        4.2.2.2. Avoid planting trees in rows except to accentuate a major feature in a formal
        way; i.e., a straight-line, major boulevard. Natural informal clusters and groves of trees
        are preferred.
        4.2.2.3. Use a 5-gallon minimum size for shrubs, a 2 1/2 inch caliper minimum for trees,
        and a 1 gallon minimum for groundcovers. Carefully install plants to their proper depth
        and remove all burlap, wire or plastic.
     4.2.3. Care:
        4.2.3.1. Irrigate or hand water new trees regularly for the first two years to ensure
        establishment of the root system.
        4.2.3.2. Avoid major pruning of trees in natural and park areas unless required for safety,
        the health of the tree, or in highly visible locations. Trees in courtyards and in prominent
        locations should be pruned by skilled personnel to produce dense growth and control
        heights.
     4.2.4. Mowing Strips. Provide a mowing strip using wood mulch (no herbicides) around
     trees and other plant groupings to prevent damage from grounds maintenance equipment.
     Size the mowing strip to allow for tree growth and to accommodate a mature tree.
4.3. Shrubs:
     4.3.1. Use low maintenance shrubs with four-season appeal at building foundations, sign
     bases, and at monuments, memorials, and other static displays. Mulch around shrubs to
     reduce weed propagation and to retain moisture.
     4.3.2. Use plant materials with dense surface coverage to control erosion from wind and
     water.
4.4. Xeriscaping:
     4.4.1. The term Xeriscape is derived from the Greek word xeros, which means dry. People
     who are unfamiliar with the terminology often confuse the word "xeri" with "zero." The
     result is a wrong impression of Xeriscapes to be thought of as landscapes where no water is
     required, and only a few “desert plant” species can thrive. The erroneous image of hot and
     dry, gravel and dirt, with cactus and no green lawns is perpetuated.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                    23


Table 4.1. Common Xeriscape Misconceptions.
 Common Xeriscape Misconceptions (Adapted with permission of the author from
 http://bcn.boulder.co.us/basin/local/misconcept.html)
                                Though dry-only landscaping can be spectacularly colorful
                                and even lush, a limited area of higher water use landscape is
                                consistent with wise water design. Heavily irrigated athletic
  Xeriscape is not Dry Only.    field turf, for example, is justifiable since it serves a specific
                                function and recovers quickly from heavy use. Keep in mind
                                though that turf requires the most water and maintenance of
                                all plant types.
                                Organic or inert mulches applied to proper depths will reduce
                                water needs and weed growth while providing visual interest
 Xeriscape is not rocks and
                                and surface erosion control. Organic mulches such as pine
 gravel only.
                                needles and shredded or chipped bark provide the added
                                benefit of improving the soil through decomposition.
                                Xeriscapes can have highly irrigated, as well as dry zones.
 Xeriscape is not planting The point is: Put the correct amount of water to the plant. Do
 that       grows     without not waste water by watering to excess. Starting new areas of
 irrigation.                    dry plant areas will still require a season or more of
                                supplemental watering to allow the plants to get established.
                                Although there is a large array of regional native plants within
 Xeriscape is not about each climate zone, non-invasive / non-native plants with a
 native plants only.            successful history can be an appropriate addition to water-
                                wise landscaping.
                                Xeriscapes can have highly irrigated, as well as dry areas, so
 The      term,    "Xeriscape
                                the term "xeriscape plant" means nothing. The term “Xeric
 Plant" is technically a
                                plant,” however, is a good term. It refers to plants that thrive
 meaningless term.
                                in largely dry conditions for most of the time.
   4.4.1. The objective for using Xeriscape design principles is to provide attractive design
   solutions which save money, water and maintenance. Xeriscape designs can easily be lush,
   rich, and green. Xeriscapes do require watering, and do support many different species of
   plants including zones of turf. Xeriscape designs are appropriate for all climate zones where
   water supplies have limits, and the cost of water is a concern and can help the installation
   meet the water reduction requirements stipulated by Executive Order 13423. Reference the
   USAF Landscape Design Guide for additional detailed guidance.
   4.4.2. Principles of Xeriscape: 1) Plan and Design, 2) Size Turf Areas Appropriately with
   Practicality, 3) Efficient and Appropriate Irrigation, 4) Use of Proper Soil Amendments, 5)
   Use of Mulches, 6) Select Appropriate Plants, 7) Appropriate Maintenance
   4.4.3. Web site: Xeriscape information including, Table 4.1 was reprinted with permission
   from the following web site: (http://bcn.bolder.co.us/basin/local/misconcept.html).
4.5. Berms:
   4.5.1. Use berms to elevate plantings and increase screening effectiveness. Design berms
   with slopes no greater than 4:1 that blend into the surrounding topography. Where trees or
24                                                          AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


     large shrubs are to be planted on the berm, the top should be at least 20 feet wide to provide
     adequate area for root growth. Where long expanses of berms are used, the height of the top,
     and width of the berm may undulate to avoid visual monotony
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                     25


                                           Chapter 5

                              EXTERIOR SIGN STANDARDS

5.1. General:
   5.1.1. Applicability:
      5.1.1.1. Concise, orderly, and visually pleasant signage is a critical design element,
      which creates an ongoing “dialogue” with its users. It directs traffic, identifies facilities,
      and provides warnings, information, and direction. The signage must respond to
      functional requirements and signage hierarchy. Signage must be of consistent materials
      and colors. It must convey concise messages to communicate intent clearly, and be a
      unifying element for the installation. AFSPC units tenant on another MAJCOM/DoD
      installation will adhere to the host command exterior sign policy.
      5.1.1.2. Signage is one element in the built environment, which identifies AFSPC
      installations as part of a larger whole, the United States Air Force. Common signage
      systems visually communicate this continuity as effectively as building or landscape
      design. For these reasons, AFSPC accepts UFC 3-120-01, Air Force Sign Standard, as
      the standard with exceptions and additions as noted in this chapter. The standards that
      differ from UFC 3-120-01 are intended to meet the goals of UFC 3-120-01 Air Force
      Sign Standard while addressing conditions unique to AFSPC.
      5.1.1.3. Wing Commanders are delegated waiver approval authority for the AFSPC sign
      standards listed in this handbook. Variations and waivers should be recorded in the
      Facilities Excellence Plan.
      5.1.1.4. Signage is a visible statement about the pride and professionalism of an
      installation. Each installation must ensure signs are well designed, maintained, and
      properly located. Rigorously question the need for each and every sign before it is placed
      on the installation.
      5.1.1.5. When applying these standards, the primary objective is to reduce the number of
      signs on the installation and eliminate the visual clutter resulting from too many signs.
      No sign should be erected unless the information it provides is absolutely necessary. The
      location, size, height, color, wording, and all other characteristics of every existing sign
      must be evaluated for this purpose.
      5.1.1.6. Eliminate superfluous signs. Do not use signs with individual changeable letters
      (often referred to as “marquee” type signs) or homemade plywood signs. Stenciled signs
      and those done with spray cans are also unacceptable. Electronic message signs located
      near the main entrances are preferred to a multitude of signs with temporary messages.
      5.1.1.7. An installation with existing signs, which do not conform, to these standards will
      transition their signs, as they need replacement. The transition to new signs should be
      done as part of normal sign maintenance due to deterioration or change of text and not as
      a wholesale replacement effort.
      5.1.1.8. Units of other Commands tenant on AFSPC installations will have exterior signs
      conforming to AFSPC standards.
26                                                           AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


     5.1.2. Characteristics:
        5.1.2.1. The color, style, and mounting of signs must be consistent throughout the
        installation. Exterior signs will have a standard installation format, color, and size.
        Brown backgrounds with white letters are the AFPSC standard for exterior signs. The
        brown background and white lettering standard will apply to Type A1, A2, A3, B1, B2,
        B3, B4, B5, C1, C2, C3, C4, C5, D1, and D2 signs as defined in UFC 3-120-01, Air
        Force Sign Standard. To maintain consistency, the back of signs shall be painted or
        coated to match the brown color on the face of the sign.
        5.1.2.2. All exterior informational type signs should be legible both day and night.
        Illuminate exterior signs only when reflective letters do not provide adequate legibility
        during darkness or when special emphasis is needed (such as the main gate).
5.2. Sign Master Plan:
     5.2.1. Components:
        5.2.1.1. The Installation Commander is responsible for the signage program. Each
        installation should prepare a Sign Master Plan, which includes the location and content of
        every existing and proposed exterior sign on the installation. The plan must include both
        a site plan and a sign schedule. It should also define the approved materials and finishes
        for mounting, posts, foundations, etc., to be used for each type of sign. The Sign Master
        Plan should be a component element of the installation FEP.
        5.2.1.2. To develop a Sign Master Plan, use a current installation layout map, showing
        all streets, structures and other major features. Identify and number each sign on the site
        plan to establish the sign location.
        5.2.1.3. Prepare a schedule of all existing and proposed signs. Indicate the sign number,
        message, sign type, and a reference to the applicable structural installation drawing. It is
        recommended that signs be categorized in the sign schedule into the following categories
        as defined in UFC 3-120-01 Air Force Sign Standard: Exterior Identification Signs;
        Direction Signs; Regulatory Signs; Motivation Signs; and, Information Signs.
     5.2.2. Civil Engineering Responsibilities:
        5.2.2.1. The Base Civil Engineer is responsible to develop, implement, and maintain the
        Sign Master Plan as well as eliminate inappropriate or unnecessary signs.
        5.2.2.2. The Sign Master Plan cannot be prepared without actually touring the
        installation. Vegetation or other obstacles may hide a location which looks clear on the
        plan.
        5.2.2.3. Each existing sign on every installation must be reviewed every two years to
        verify need and condition. Extraneous and unauthorized signs are to be removed.
5.3. Types Of Signs:
     5.3.1. Identification Signs:
        5.3.1.1. Installation Identification (Entrance) Signs:
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                   27


     5.3.1.2. Installation identification signs introduce the installation to all visitors. Their
     organization, design, quality, and maintenance create a first impression that sets the tone
     for the visitor’s reaction to the installation.
     5.3.1.3. Type A1 and A2 installation entrance signs shall be on a raised base constructed
     of materials consistent with the local and installation architectural style. No text or
     graphics are to be placed on the base of the sign. To create a professional, command-
     wide image, AFSPC installations must exhibit consistency in the design of type A1 and
     A2 entrance signs. While the structure holding the sign may vary to conform to local
     materials, conditions, and predominant installation architectural style, the sign face itself
     must conform to the standards in UFC 3-120-01 Air Force Sign Standard, unless
     approved otherwise by waiver.
     5.3.1.4. The sign face shall show the following information only: Air Force Symbol, U.
     S. AIR FORCE and Installation Name.
         5.3.1.4.1. No unit names, unit mottoes, or names and titles of individuals are
         permitted.
     5.3.1.5. Graphics should normally appear only on the side of the sign facing incoming
     traffic, but the backside should present an acceptable appearance.
     5.3.1.6. Low maintenance landscaping and ground mounted lighting is required.
     5.3.1.7. Installation entrance signs will be replaced by attrition only and will not be
     changed if the physical condition and message of the existing sign is satisfactory.
     5.3.1.8. Use the Type A3 Installation Entry sign to identify secondary entrances with
     limited public access. Mount on a sign structure that also holds the installation warning
     sign.
  5.3.2. Military Facility Signs:
     5.3.2.1. Military facility signs consist of three types: building name, building number,
     and building address. This section covers facility signs in general; specific guidance for
     each type is provided in UFC 3-120-01 Air Force Sign Standard.
     5.3.2.2. Locate freestanding facility signs near the main entrance and make sure they can
     be read from the street. It may be necessary to use more than one sign when there are
     widely separated main entrances. In all cases, signs must be kept to a minimum.
     5.3.2.3. Some existing buildings may have signs engraved into the facade of a building.
     Do not use engraved signs on new or existing buildings.
     5.3.2.4. Facility signs should not be replaced unless required for normal signage
     maintenance, which includes damaged, faded, or changes of text to sign.
     5.3.2.5. Unit awards are not authorized for display on facility signs. Units should
     recognize receipt of these awards in appropriate displays within their facilities.
     5.3.2.6. Unit nicknames, unit mottoes, and names or titles of individuals are not
     authorized on facility signs.
     5.3.2.7. There are several distinct styles of facility name signs: individual, raised letters
     attached to the building; base and post-mounted freestanding signs (stand-alone); and
28                                                          AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


        signs attached to the building. For consistency, the same style should be used throughout
        the installation, except that individual, raised letters may be used on an installation with
        the other styles. A single facility should not typically have both a wall-mounted sign and
        raised letters attached to the building; however, both may be practical in some instances.
        Using raised letters and a freestanding sign should be avoided unless the building is
        widely separated from the main access roads.
        5.3.2.8. Individual numbers mounted or painted directly on a building are to be avoided.
        5.3.2.9. Building name signs which are attached to the building or that are stand-alone
        may provide the functional or organizational name, but not both. Generally, only one
        organizational name will be on a sign.
        5.3.2.10. If a building houses more than one organization, the sign should normally
        include only the major tenant. If there is no clear major tenant, the names of two or three
        co-equal organizations may be included on the sign.
        5.3.2.11. In some instances, the names of high priority units, or those destinations that
        are most often sought by people, who are new to the installation, should be included on
        the building sign.
        5.3.2.12. If more than three co-equal organizations wish to be identified, and the order of
        preference cannot be agreed to, then a general designation, such as Base Administration,
        should be used.
     5.3.3. Approved Facility Signs:
        5.3.3.1. Type B1: This sign type is used to identify the highest-level flag bearing
        (MAJCOM or numbered Air Force) Headquarters on an installation. The emblem must
        be the MAJCOM or numbered Air Force shield: 12 inch by 12 inch for base mount, 8
        inch by 8 inch for post mount, full color.
        5.3.3.2. Type B2: This sign type is used to identify a lower level flag bearing (Wing
        Level) Headquarters on an installation. The emblem will be the Wing shield mounted in
        the upper left corner of the sign. All emblems will be 6 inch by 6 inch, full color.
        5.3.3.3. Type B3: This sign type is used to identify Squadron Level Headquarters,
        Squadron components, detachments, and non-military equivalents. (NOTE: Individual
        raised letters mounted on the building are authorized in lieu of Types B1, B2, and B3
        signs.) No emblem should be used for this type of sign.
        5.3.3.4. Type B4: This sign type is used to identify all other buildings or organizations.
        Emblems are not authorized for B4 signs on AFSPC bases.
     5.3.4. Facility Number Signs:
        5.3.4.1. Type B5: This is a facility number sign, which is required on all facilities.
        Facility numbers painted directly on the building are unacceptable. Although building
        shapes and other irregularities occasionally require variations, facility numbers should
        normally be on the right corner of the front facade of every permanent building. Only
        one facility number sign needs to be visible from a single vantage point. Lettering and
        sign color should be white on standard brown. In some instances it may be necessary to
        deviate from the color standard to ensure visibility. Avoid bold accent colors.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                    29


  5.3.5. Building Address Signs:
     5.3.5.1. Every occupied facility will have a building address sign containing the address
     number consistent with US Postal Service protocols. The building address sign shall
     contain only the address number (not the street name) and will not be combined with the
     facility name or facility number sign. The building address sign should normally be
     attached to the building near the entrance where mail may be delivered. Lettering and
     sign color should be consistent with other signage on the installation where possible. As
     building configurations and other conditions vary widely, the location, size, color, and
     other characteristics of address signs must be determined on a case-by-case basis. It may
     be necessary to deviate from the color standard to ensure visibility. Avoid bold accent
     colors. Include building address signs in the Sign Master Plan.
     5.3.5.2. The Installation Commander may determine if facility numbers may be omitted
     from sign types B1, B2, B3 and B4 if building addresses are the primary means of
     locating organizations or buildings. If building numbers are omitted from these type
     signs, they must be omitted from all of those type signs on the installation.
  5.3.6. Community Identification Signs:
     5.3.6.1. Third party commercial signing must be integrated with the installation signage
     system. It should not be garish or obtrusive.
     5.3.6.2. Sign standards should be included in the approval package for all commercial
     enterprises on the installation.
     5.3.6.3. Sale and other special event signs taped to or painted on windows, banners
     attached to building exteriors, and other temporary type signage is unacceptable.
     5.3.6.4. Back lighted and neon signs are discouraged on all AFSPC installations.
  5.3.7. Destination Signs:
     5.3.7.1. There are many potential destinations on any AF installation--too many to list on
     direction signs. At the same time effective direction signs can help to make the
     installation easier to use and can avoid confusion and disorientation. Used together with
     proper street identification, signing and effective installation maps, they form the key to
     visitor orientation on the installation.
     5.3.7.2. The content and location of all direction signs must be developed in the
     installation Sign Master Plan to create a logical system to direct visitors from the point of
     entry, through every intersection to their final destinations. Be concise and to the point.
     Use the guidance provided in UFC 3-120-01 Air Force Sign Standard for direction sign
     placement, mounting, etc.
     5.3.7.3. Since not every destination can be listed, priorities must be established for listing
     destinations. Give the highest priority to those destinations that are most often sought by
     people who are new to the installation. Consequently, direction signs should lead to
     activities likely to have a great deal of first time traffic such as the Commissary, Base
     Exchange, Hospital, Lodging Office, etc.
     5.3.7.4. Maps should indicate the same names that are used on direction signs and the
     security police should give directions consistent with the sign and map terminology.
30                                                          AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


        5.3.7.5. No more than four directions should appear on a single direction sign. If there is
        a need to show more than four directions, a second sign may be used, but not more than
        two direction signs may be used in such a situation. Group those destinations in the same
        direction.
        5.3.7.6. All graphics: The message, arrows, borders, and the sign background shall be of
        reflective materials to facilitate nighttime visibility.
        5.3.7.7. Graphics generally should appear on only one side of the sign because the sign
        will be placed in advance of an intersection; however two-sided signs may be used where
        appropriate. Check the locations for height and obstructions.
        5.3.7.8. Do not place directional signs near organizational or facility identification signs
        unless absolutely necessary.
        5.3.7.9. The following two types of direction signs are approved for use on AFSPC
        installations.
            5.3.7.9.1. Type D1: This type sign shall be used at roadways with speed limits in
            excess of 25 miles per hour.
            5.3.7.9.2. Type D2: This type sign shall be used at roadways with speed limits of 25
            miles per hour or less, at parking lots, and along major pedestrian routes where
            confusion might otherwise exist.
     5.3.8. Street Signs:
        5.3.8.1. There will be one street name sign for each street at each intersection.
        5.3.8.2. Signs will be mounted not more than 15 feet from the cross-street curb line, and
        the bottom of the sign should be not less than 7 feet above the ground. The locations
        must be consistent throughout the installation. Locate signs away from trees or other
        obstructions that may block views.
        5.3.8.3. A full-color Air Force Space Command emblem is required at the left of the
        lettering on all street signs.
        5.3.8.4. Signs will have a standard vertical dimension of 6 inches. The number of letters
        in the street name will determine the length, with 30 inches being the maximum length
        allowed. Lettering will be 4-inch upper case. For long street names, use narrow stroke
        widths to stay within the length parameters.
        5.3.8.5. Colors will be white letters on Standard Brown background. Lettering will be
        reflective for visibility during darkness.
        5.3.8.6. Avoid abbreviating street names. Conventional abbreviations for street (ST),
        avenue (AVE), and boulevard (BLVD) are acceptable.
        5.3.8.7. Street signs shall be mounted on signposts matching other posts on the
        installation. Signs mounted on light standards or other utility poles are unacceptable.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009   31
32                                                         AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


     5.3.9. Regulation Signs:
        5.3.9.1. Regulation signs have three sub-categories: Highway/Traffic, Installation
        Warning, and Parking Regulation. Signs in all three categories should be kept to a
        minimum number as they can be confusing and clutter the appearance of an installation.
     5.3.10. Highway/Traffic Signs:
        5.3.10.1. This handbook does not include Highway Traffic signs since this category is
        normally not regulated by the installation. Specific information can be found in the
        Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) published by the Federal
        Highway Administration.
     5.3.11. Installation Warning Signs:
        5.3.11.1. Legal requirements for AF installation-warning signs, controlled area signs,
        and restricted area signs are contained in AFI 31-209, The AF Resource Protection
        Program, and AFI 31-101, The AF Physical Security Program.
        5.3.11.2. Use the Air Force installation warning sign, controlled area sign, and restricted
        area sign at all personnel and vehicle entry points. Both the message and the background
        panel for all installation warning signs must be reflective. This type sign is often
        overused. Restrict the number and location of signs to those absolutely necessary to
        ensure security and control and as required by the applicable regulation. More signs only
        lead to confusion and clutter without improving security and control.
        5.3.11.3. If working dog teams are used inside or around a posted area, the military
        working dog team notice should be placed directly below the sign panel.
        5.3.11.4. Several other notices, such as a solicitation warning or photography
        prohibition, may be required by regulation at installation entry points. These notices
        should be placed directly below the installation warning sign or they may be combined on
        a separate sign structure. Such signs should only be erected in response to a need, not
        just “in case they may be needed someday”.
        5.3.11.5. The characteristics of these signs must be exactly as defined in UFC 3-120-01
        Air Force Sign Standard. Authorized types of warning signs for AFSPC are both the E1
        and the E2 type signs.
     5.3.12. Parking Regulation Signs:
        5.3.12.1. Where possible, reserved parking should be designated by area, not individual
        spaces, as individual designations change frequently. Use flag-style signs or arrows
        within signs to bracket multiple reserved parking in order to avoid the visual clutter of
        numerous signs.
        5.3.12.2. Where individual parking spaces are designated, the sign should be painted
        metal on low posts (approximately 4 feet high) beyond the curb. Avoid mechanically
        attaching signs to the curb. Designations painted directly on the curb are unacceptable.
        5.3.12.3. Design and color of parking signs should match other signs on the installation.
     5.3.13. Motivation Signs:
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                 33


     5.3.13.1. Motivation signs have their place on AFSPC installations, but they must be
     carefully controlled to assure they do not become an eyesore or a nuisance. Electronic
     message signs can minimize the need for separate motivational signs.
        5.3.13.1.2. Motivation signs must be included in the installation sign master plan.
        They must be consistent with the objective they are designed to promote.
     5.3.13.2. Type F1, F2, and F3 motivation signs, as defined in UFC 3-120-01, Air Force
     Sign Standard, are authorized on AFSPC installations.
        5.3.13.2.1. Normally only two type F1, motivational signs are authorized on an
        installation. One should be at the air terminal entrance to the installation, and the
        other at the main road entrance. If there is not an air terminal entrance, only one type
        F1 motivational sign should be installed. Neither should be used if the installation
        has electronic message signs.
        5.3.13.2.2. The type F1b changeable letter sign is not authorized except at the air
        terminal entrance if electronic message signs are not installed on the installation.
        5.3.13.2.3. The type F3 unit morale sign, if used, must have a brown background
        when the unit emblem is displayed.
  5.3.14. Information Signs:
     5.3.14.1. These signs provide educational information for visitors and installation
     personnel. Examples of information signs include signs explaining exhibits or
     monuments and signs giving directional guidance to pedestrians. Informational signs are
     required to show hours of operation for Services Facilities. Also included are signs at
     hazardous waste accumulation sites and points.
     5.3.14.2. Illustrations on informational signs should conform to the standards provided in
     UFC 3-120-01, Air Force Sign Standard. They should be installed only where necessary
     and must be consistent with the characteristics of other signs on the installation. They
     normally do not require lighting or reflective materials.
     5.3.14.3. Monumental type informational signs are discouraged.
     5.3.14.4. As informational signs are typically for the use of pedestrians, paths or
     walkways are usually necessary to the sign from a parking lot or main circulation route.
     These paths may be gravel, or hard surfaced depending on the usage and other conditions.
     Gravel paths should be edged to prevent the intrusion of vegetation and to define the
     desired walkway.
     5.3.14.5. Landscaping in the vicinity of the sign and the exhibit(s) provides a finished
     appearance and professional setting.
     5.3.14.6. Both G1 and G2 informational signs are appropriate on AFSPC installations.
     They must conform to the standards established in UFC 3-120-01 Air Force Sign
     Standard, except that the graphics may be omitted if they provide no useful information.
     In some instances, the lettering (but not the sign) may also be larger.
     5.3.14.7. One hazardous waste accumulation point sign is required at each accumulation
     site or point. It should be affixed to the gate or door of the accumulation enclosure.
     Characteristics of the sign are as shown in Figure 5.1 below.
34                                                          AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


Figure 5.1. Hazardous Waste Accumulation Point Sign.




     5.3.15. Electronic Message Signs:
        5.3.15.1. These signs are an effective way to reduce overall signage, keep information
        current, and more quickly respond to changing information requirements. Their use is
        authorized and encouraged at AFSPC installations. They should be located only at
        primary entrances to the installation and, where applicable, on or near the Base
        Operations building as the principal arrival point at the installation. They should be
        permanently mounted on a base or on the Base Operations building.
        5.3.15.2. Include landscaping and other amenities to provide a setting for the signs.
        5.3.15.3. At entrances to the installation, these signs will normally be oriented to be
        visible to incoming traffic a minimum of 200 ft. beyond the Entry Control Facility.
        5.3.15.4. Signs should only provide information about events important to a large
        number of people on the installation.
        5.3.15.5. Designate an organization to be responsible for the message content. Only
        authorized personnel should have access to the equipment, which controls messages.
     5.3.16. Military Family Housing Signs:
        5.3.16.1. The name and rank of family housing occupants may be displayed at or on all
        quarters. Due to various configurations of the quarters these signs cannot be located in
        the same place for all buildings, but should be visible from the main street and be
        consistent for color, style, and mounting technique throughout the installation for the
        same type of buildings.
        5.3.16.2. Name and rank signs may be painted on a suitable sign material or may be of
        the slip-in type. Any type of sign painted directly on the building is unacceptable.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                     35


       5.3.16.3. Colors should match the other signs on the installation where possible, but may
       vary if necessary for contrast with the building on which they are mounted. They should
       not be of bright colors.
       5.3.16.4. Address signs are to be posted on the buildings and must be visible from the
       street and consistent for the same type of buildings. Address signs will have only the
       address number, not the street name. Address signs and name/rank signs are not to be
       combined on the same sign.
       5.3.16.5. Each building will also have a separate building number sign installed (not
       painted) on the building. As much as possible, these signs shall be located consistent
       with other building number signs on the installation.
       5.3.16.6. Lettering, color, size, etc. for all three signs should be uniform for the same
       building.
5.4. Signs For Historic Buildings:
   5.4.1. Applicability:
       5.4.1.1. Historical buildings and buildings eligible for designation as historical buildings
       under AFI 2-7065, Cultural Resources Management Program will not have signs
       attached except for building numbers and address signs. Building number signs must be
       anchored only in masonry joints or other readily repairable features of the building to
       avoid permanently defacing the building. Building name signs will be freestanding.
       5.4.1.2. In no case should signage engraved in the facade of a historical building be
       removed.
5.5. Wall Mounted Signs:
   5.5.1. When attaching unit emblems (or any signs) to buildings, special care must be taken in
   selecting the method and location of anchorage to minimize defacing the building when it
   becomes necessary to change the logo or sign. The attachment hardware will be a nonferrous
   metal to prevent rust streaking the building finish.
   5.5.2. Usage of the individual, raised letter style should be limited to major buildings, which
   require sign changes very infrequently. This style sign should provide the functional name,
   not the organizational name, i.e. “Personnel”, not XXst Personnel Squadron. Size the letters
   in proportion to the building or the installation standards.
   5.5.3. Colors for raised letters should be brushed, clear aluminum, Standard Brown, or a
   contrast with the wall on which they are mounted. Colors for contrasting letters will be
   approved by the Installation Commander or his/her representative.
   5.5.4. As the letters are applied directly to the surface of the wall rather than to a background
   panel, they must compete with the architectural details of the building. A minimum 12”
   capital letter is typical for one and two story administrative buildings. Larger letters are used
   on larger buildings. The Helvetica typeface should be used, in either medium or regular,
   depending on the building characteristics.
   5.5.5. Wall mounted signs should be illuminated only if individuals unfamiliar with the
   installation normally use the building during hours of darkness.
36                                                             AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


5.6. Typography, Graphics And Sign Placement:
     5.6.1. Graphics on buildings are not permitted. Graphics include building large names and
     numbers, “racing stripes”, murals, slogans, shields, crests, and pictographs. Large size (super
     graphic) facility signs are not acceptable.
     5.6.2. All lettering and numbers will be Helvetica regular or medium as specified in UFC 3-
     120-01 Air Force Sign Standard. Lettering rules must strictly follow the guidance provided.
     5.6.3. Good judgment is the key to deciding where the lines in a sign message should break.
     The lines should be balanced so that the sign does not look awkward. Usually, single ideas
     or names should appear on the same line.
     5.6.4. As a rule, numbers should occur as numerals, unless otherwise specified in the
     authorized unit name.
     5.6.5. Names should be spelled out in full whenever possible. If abbreviations are required,
     they must be official Air Force abbreviations.
5.7. Sign Mounting Details: \
Materials and installation should conform to UFC 3-120-01 Air Force Sign Standard.
     5.7.1. Anodized or factory treated and permanently colored aluminum tubing or square steel
     stock is preferred for facility signposts. Ensure the selected material is used throughout the
     installation and is architecturally consistent with the standards set for the installation for style
     and color.
     5.7.2. Posts for traffic control signs should be non-galvanized metal (if they are to be
     painted) or a vinyl sleeve over post if galvanized metal or tubular aluminum is used.
     5.7.3. Signs other than those governed by the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
     (MUTCD), warning signs, and morale signs with specific graphics will be reflective sheeting
     engineer grade brown with white letters.
         5.7.3.1. Reflective signs must conform to Federal Specification LS-300C and the
         MUTCD. The reflective sheet must be LS-300C, Type 1, Table III, Reflectivity II (high
         intensity encapsulated lens) for building numbers, regulatory, warning, street names,
         directional signs, and building identification signs.
         5.7.3.2. LS-300C, Type 1, Table II, Reflectivity I (engineer grade) may be used for less
         critical signs, such as parking signs.
     5.7.4. Aluminum or galvanized steel should be used for signs to reduce the possibility of
     rust. Aluminum stock should be 12 gauge (.0808 inches) or thicker.
     5.7.5. Posts and cross-members, mounting hardware, and exposed sign backs must be
     painted or factory coated to match the color of installation building architecture and local
     sign standards. Reflective sheet color will be engineer-grade brown on sign face.
     5.7.6. Assure that all vertical sign posts are plumb and square with the sign face. All
     horizontal members are to be level and square with sign-faces. Signs should face oncoming
     traffic and be structurally capable of withstanding local wind conditions.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                37


5.8. Emblems:
   5.8.1. Emblems may be attached to buildings; however, frequent changes in building
   occupancy and logo design cause changes, which are expensive and can leave multiple
   fastener holes in the building finish. Therefore, the attachment of emblems to buildings
   should be minimized.
   5.8.2. Buildings will normally have no more than two shields. Where multiple shields are
   used, the higher echelon shield will be on the left, when facing the sign.
   5.8.3. All emblems and regalia shall be consistent with the AF Heraldry standard.
   5.8.4. Shields will not be replaced just to conform to these standards. Replace shields only
   when the organizational unit changes, or when deteriorated or damaged.
   5.8.5. If pictograph symbols are used on any sign, use the standard pictograph symbols
   shown in UFC 3-120-01, Air Force Sign Standard.
38                                                           AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


                                             Chapter 6

               ARCHITECTURE AND FACILITY EXTERIOR STANDARDS

6.1. General:
     6.1.1. Building exteriors are the basis for the most lasting impression of an installation. This
     impression results from the relationship between scale, massing, proportion, texture, color,
     proximity to streets and other buildings, and many other elements. To achieve excellence,
     these elements and their interrelationship to new construction or renovation projects should
     be considered to enhance the facility’s exterior appearance with the natural surroundings.
     For example, the right exterior color scheme can result in a dramatic improvement to not
     only the physical appearance of the facility but also to the surrounding area. It must also be
     understood the appearance of a facility could be downgraded because of too many exterior
     elements in the vicinity. These elements should all be addressed in detail in the installation’s
     Comprehensive Plan. AFSPC units tenant on another MAJCOM/DoD installation will
     adhere to the host command architectural standards and facility exterior policies.
     6.1.2. Architectural Compatibility with Existing Facilities. Consider the existing local
     architecture when determining a facility’s architectural characteristics. Significant positive
     design elements that exist in the “design context” can be used to create continuity in the
     fabric of the installation. Using elements existing in the design context such as the repetition
     of colors, lines, textures, shapes, proportions and massing of forms will help ensure the new
     or renovated facility looks as though it belongs to the existing context of the installation. The
     goal of architectural compatibility is to create continuity while avoiding monotony. Where
     no significant elements exist within the adjacent context, the designer should look to the
     regional context to establish an architectural character. The Facilities Excellence Plan must
     define and document architectural style or style areas on the installation. The designer must
     work with the project architect to ensure the complete coordination of interior and exterior
     designs for the best interest of the user and function of the space. The interior and exterior
     should have recurring lines, shapes and color to create an overall impression of compatibility.
     6.1.3. Establish an architectural style for the installation that responds to regional design
     influences and local historical precedents and is appropriate for the local climate. Vary scale,
     massing, fenestration and detailing to instill interest. Ensure buildings are compatible
     without being monotonous.
     6.1.4. Select exterior building materials that are durable, require little maintenance have a
     low life-cycle cost. Employ reused, recycled or rapidly renewable materials whenever
     practicable. Consider locally produced materials.
     6.1.5. Relocatable/Temporary Facilities. The use of temporary facilities such as
     relocatable buildings, metal sheds, and trailers is prohibited. Demolish unusable buildings.
     The adaptive use of temporary facilities, even on short-term bases, is discouraged. Portable
     latrines are unacceptable to satisfy long-term needs. Small, permanent restroom facilities
     should be constructed.
     6.1.6. Historic Preservation Requirements. The National Historic Preservation Act
     requires federal agencies to consult with the State Historic Preservation Officer and Advisory
     Council on Historic Preservation regarding proposed changes to properties listed on or
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                     39


   eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places. The Secretary of the Interior
   Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties provides guidelines for making sure that
   selections do not compromise a facility’s historic integrity.
   6.1.7. Codes And Regulations. Applicable AF instructions, policies and pamphlets,
   sustainable design principles, Unified Facilities Criteria, as well as life safety, accessibility
   codes, fire codes and local and federal regulations must be followed in all designs. Identify
   all applicable codes early in a project to minimize the need for reselections or rework. Be
   aware codes apply to furnishings as well as finishes.
6.2. Roofs:
   6.2.1. Standard. The AFSPC standard is to provide a low life cycle cost roofing system that
   provides positive drainage, meets the facility needs and is consistent with the installation
   architectural theme.
   6.2.2. Materials: Roofs may be of many different types and materials, consistent with the
   installation architectural theme.
   6.2.3. Equipment. Minimize roof mounted equipment appurtenances, vents, etc. When
   practical, they should be screened to complement the building architectural style and
   massing; matching materials and color schemes. No unpainted or mismatched objects should
   be visible.
6.3. Doors And Windows:
   6.3.1. Glazing. Windows should be a minimum of thermally broken, double glazed, and in
   extreme climates triple glazing may be cost effective. Provide laminated glass in compliance
   with UFC 4-010-1, DoD Minimum Antiterrorism Standards for Buildings. Clear coated
   Low-e glass or factory applied tinting is acceptable, but should be limited to clear, gray or
   neutral colors. After-market tinting is strongly discouraged because of the added
   maintenance burden it creates and because it is not sufficiently durable. Consider operable
   windows where appropriate.
   6.3.2. Frames. Window frames of thermally broken factory-finished aluminum are
   preferred. Anodized aluminum window frames reduce maintenance costs and are virtually
   maintenance free for the life of the window. Design window frames in compliance with UFC
   4-010-1, DoD Minimum Antiterrorism Standards for Buildings to ensure the frame does
   not fail to hold the glazing due to blast over-pressure.
   6.3.3. Doors. Exterior doors in all facilities must be properly insulated and sealed, durable
   and meet safety requirements. Access to all facilities must meet Architectural Barrier Act
   and UFAS standards. Consider the use of vestibules to control the movement of air and
   particulates.
6.4. Exterior Wall Finishes:
   6.4.1. General:
      6.4.1.1. Exterior wall finishes should be consistent with the architectural style adopted
      for the installation, and as maintenance free as possible. Brick, exposed aggregate
      concrete panels, color impregnated stucco, factory finished metal panels, exterior
      insulation finish systems, and textured concrete masonry block are acceptable types
40                                                          AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


        exterior systems. Use the appropriate integral or factory applied color to achieve the best
        life cycle cost.
        6.4.1.2. When constructing new facilities minimize the amount of painted exterior wall
        and trim. Wherever possible, use prefinished systems for trim and appurtenances such as
        rain gutters and downspouts.
     6.4.2. Materials:
        6.4.2.1. Concrete block with integral color is an acceptable exterior wall finish for
        facilities in industrial areas and storage warehouses, but it should be minimized in high
        traffic areas. Plain concrete masonry block is not acceptable as an exterior finish in
        medium and high use areas and for facilities with a high customer service population.
        Depending on the architectural style of the installation, architectural concrete masonry
        units, such as split face block, fluted face block, and shadow block may be effectively
        used as an exterior finish. Integrally colored masonry units matching the installation
        color standards will preclude the high costs of recurring maintenance and painting.
        Masonry block and mortar must be sealed with an appropriate integral or applied sealant
        to prevent water absorption, infiltration and efflorescence. Avoid using paint on concrete
        block whenever possible.
        6.4.2.2. Wood is not recommended as an exterior wall finish material because of its high
        maintenance cost and susceptibility to decay.
     6.4.3. Paint:
        6.4.3.1. Paint is a common exterior wall treatment. Exterior paint colors must be
        compatible with the surroundings and consistent with the installation architectural and
        color theme. Where paint is necessary for the exterior of a facility, use only paint that is
        lead, chromium, and isocyanate free, no-VOC (Volatile Organic Content) or low-VOC
        paints. All paint must meet Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) recommended
        recycled-content for reprocessed latex paints. For GSA procurements, EPA recommends
        that procuring agencies refer to the Commercial Item Description (CID) A-A-3185 when
        purchasing reprocessed paint. (http://www.epa.gov/cpg/products/paint.htm). Control
        the number of color schemes used on the installation. Avoid having more than three
        acceptable schemes if possible.
        6.4.3.2. Change colors only when existing surfaces need repainting. Ensure the correct
        paint color scheme is included in the recurring paint program.
        6.4.3.3. If radomes require painting, white is the only acceptable color to minimize
        heat/solar absorption.
        6.4.3.4. Exterior equipment (transformers, meters, air handling units) should be painted
        the same color as adjacent surfaces so they will blend in and become less visible and
        obtrusive. The goal is to minimize the visual impact of the equipment. Avoid painting
        all equipment and appurtenance dark brown. Dock bumpers, guardrails, bumper posts,
        and similar apparatus should also be painted to blend with the surroundings, consistent
        with safety requirements.
     6.4.4. Paint Plan. Develop a Paint Plan for the installation, defining the installation color
     schemes and trim colors to be used on each facility type or defined area on the installation.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                   41


  Areas of the installation, which have unique architectural or design characteristics, should be
  defined as such within the standards. Variations to architectural themes and color schemes
  can elevate the overall aesthetic experienced when moving from one area to another. Retain
  professional design assistance in selecting the exterior colors and styles. Avoid large areas of
  bright color and colors that fade easily. Strive to create continuity without causing monotony
  when defining color schemes.
42                                                           AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


                                             Chapter 7

                                    INTERIOR STANDARDS

7.1. Interior Design:
     7.1.1. A professional Interior Designer, is qualified by education, experience and
     examination who is concerned with space planning, functional layout, life safety codes,
     sustainable design/Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), Architectural
     Barriers Act compliance and the selection of furnishings and materials to fulfill the
     functional requirements of interior spaces. AFSPC expects architectural and engineering
     firms, the Naval Facilities Engineering Command, and the Army Corps of Engineers to use
     qualified professional Interior Designers. AFSPC encourages wing commanders to establish
     an interior design position on the base engineer staff to provide design and technical review
     expertise. All too often, poor interior design negates much of the effort and cost expended on
     a facility by the other design disciplines.
     7.1.2. General. Quality interior design reflects “understated excellence” and assures that
     facilities are attractive, sustainable, environmentally safe, operationally efficient, and
     maintainable. The interior designer must strive for sound, economical, functional and
     aesthetic design achievements. The structural, electrical, and mechanical systems enhance
     the architectural and interior design features and vice versa. The combined elements of each
     discipline should create a fully integrated environment. Well-designed facilities satisfy the
     user’s needs, install pride in ownership, and promote productivity in the workplace, and
     enhances pleasure and relaxation in recreational facilities. See UFC3-120-10, Interior
     Design, for more information. Standards for interior finishes and furnishings must be an
     integral part of the installation FEP.
     7.1.3. Flexibility. Flexible designs are essential to meet the dynamic requirements of our
     mission. While the primary function of each facility must be the priority, the designer must
     keep in mind that functions evolve, and facilities may require future modifications. Rapid
     technological advancements often demand upgraded equipment, power and communications
     requirements.
     7.1.4. Timelessness. The elements of pure design, including structural expression,
     suitability of materials, harmonious visual and tactile features, and classic furnishings will
     always remain the foundation of good design. Designers should avoid trendy or dated
     finishes and design features. Interiors should be creative but not extreme, reflect quality, and
     be capable of updating without requiring major changes to materials, spaces and functions.
7.2. Design Packages.
     7.2.1. A Comprehensive Interior Design (CID) includes two types of interior design
     packages; they both relate directly to the other.
     7.2.2. Structural Interior Design (SID). The SID process involves the selection and
     coordination of interior materials and finishes that are part of the building or are built-in
     permanent items. A SID package is required for all projects to attain a complete and finished
     facility.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                  43


   7.2.3. Fixtures, Furnishings and Equipments (FF&E). Funding for interior fixtures,
   furnishings and equipment must be an integral part of the facility project. Refer to the UFC3-
   120-10, Interior Design for information on interior design projects. The process involves
   designing, selecting, and developing interior fixtures, furnishings, and equipment (FF&E) for
   an integrated visual design theme (architectural and interior design). FF&E requirements
   include the furniture package that are comprised of accessories, artwork, lamps, trash
   receptacles, white boards and tack boards, signs, window coverings, plants, chairs, desks,
   files, tables, etc. The FF&E process includes developing an environment for a totally
   compatible architectural and interior facility.
   7.2.4. Required Design Documents. Specific guidance, presentation format and detailed
   information on the development of the Structural Interior Design (SID) and Fixtures
   Furnishing & Equipment (FF&E) packages can be found in UFC3-120-10.
7.3. Design Considerations:
   7.3.1. Personal/Public Spaces. Provide for the personalization of each user’s space
   including display of personal items, within limits. Develop a clear definition between the
   public and private areas of a facility.
   7.3.2. Traffic Flow. Traffic patterns must be arranged to allow for an orderly flow of
   operation and adhere to life safety codes. Provide a clear understanding of the horizontal and
   vertical circulation. Create major and minor spaces that will establish focus, attention, and
   orientation. The first dominant major space is the entrance to a facility, which should be
   designed as a visual focal point that leads into the other major and minor spaces throughout
   the facility. Signage is a very critical element in the success of a working traffic pattern.
   Circulation paths should anticipate and accommodate the number of personnel in the facility.
   7.3.3. Functional Relationships. Consider different groups of people and their working
   relationships. Identify and prioritize which employee/work groups need to be located
   adjacent to each other. Identify the relationships and interactions of individuals within a
   work group.
   7.3.4. Status And Function. Identify special requirements for circulation, public/private
   space separation, VIP areas, informal gathering spaces (coffee bars, break rooms, and shared
   equipment space), and storage (filing, coats, supply, etc.). The occupant’s rank and position
   will influence the square footage and selection of materials.
   7.3.5. Equipment Usage. Identify all equipment and its users within each facility or each
   area of the facility. Most administrative spaces that support equipment such as copiers, FAX
   machines, high speed scanners and printers.
   7.3.6. Recycling. Identify and create a location where recycling activities shall occur.
   Materials to be considered for recycling are office paper, aluminum cans, cardboard, and
   newspapers. Check with the Environmental Flight for the type of materials currently being
   collected at the installation.
   7.3.7. Availability of Materials and Resources. Some materials are not readily available
   or economically shipped to all locations. When designing a project for remote locations,
   consider cost, import/export rules, and availability before specifying a product.
44                                                           AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


     7.3.8. Special Climatic and/or Maintenance Problems. The designer must take into
     account local climatic conditions when selecting materials and finishes. Special maintenance
     requirements should be identified for heavy snow or rain, very arid or humid climates,
     exposure to salt water, unusual soil conditions and sand, and high levels of sunshine.
     7.3.9. Sustainable Design Considerations. It is extremely important that Environmental
     Flight personnel be consulted during planning for any new construction or major renovation
     to ensure cultural and historic constraints are identified and considered. These personnel will
     help assure compliance with public laws, sustainable design and development according to
     AF Policy, Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) requirements, and
     Presidential Directives dealing with pollution prevention, energy conservation, affirmative
     procurement (EPA Guideline Items) and others.
     7.3.10. Noise Levels. Designers should consider both interior and exterior noise levels.
     Proper acoustical design depends on a careful ratio of reflective to absorptive surfaces so that
     excess reverberation and disturbing sound intensity levels can be eliminated. The type of
     noise disturbance and function of the space will determine the adequate level of sound
     control (white noise).
     7.3.11. Light.
        7.3.11.1. Light and its affect on the environment are critical to the interior design of a
        space. The quality and placement of light sources are as important as light level in
        obtaining the functional and the aesthetic intent of the spatial designs. The designer
        should be aware of how the light source affects space perception, finishes, colors, and
        textures when making design decisions. The function of the room or facility will
        influence the system type and amount of lighting required.
        7.3.11.2. Numerous studies show that natural light and use of full spectrum fluorescent
        light positively affects both physical and mental health. In the work environment, people
        tend to have more job satisfaction if they have some contact with natural light through
        windows, skylights, atriums, and the use of full spectrum light sources. The project
        architect and the user must work with the designer to provide natural lighting in the most
        functional, cost-effective manner. The interior designer should be involved in the
        selection of artificial light fixtures and sources to help ensure: functional and aesthetic
        compatibility, elimination of glare and color washout, assurance of color integrity and
        finish materials, flexibility in light control, adequate supplemental light for maintenance
        where required, proper lamping (bulbs) per fixture based on life cycle cost and
        replacement lamp availability, compliance with life safety codes.
     7.3.12. Physical And Behavioral Requirements. Human comfort and well being are
     priority considerations. Minimum physical requirements include appropriate levels of
     lighting, temperature, air flow, humidity and background noise. Some individual control of
     these elements is desirable. As with all aspects of design, the function of the space will
     determine the desirable amount of user control, depending on individual or group preference,
     the activities involved, and time spent within the space. The designer must address the
     behavioral needs of the occupants, including safety and security, privacy, personal space, and
     visual/directional orientation.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                  45


   7.3.13. Color Concept. Color preference is very personal, and individual interpretation of
   color varies widely. However, the true properties of color are constant. The designer must
   have knowledge of these properties and their relationship to the functional, spatial and
   lighting aspects throughout the space. The designer and user must separate personal taste
   from professional design. The following general guidance directs attention to special areas
   of consideration when selecting color schemes for facilities.
      7.3.13.1. Use neutral colors for permanent background finishes to support a variety of
      color schemes, i.e., architectural materials such as ceramic tiles, stone, and bathroom
      fixtures. Vary the intensity of color and create patterns to provide visual relief from the
      monotony of neutral colors. Use accent colors for finishes that are subject to periodic
      change and to create interest in focal points. For example, carpet, wall coverings,
      upholstery, and panel fabrics. Provide small amounts of intense color in accessories and
      artwork for visual stimulation. Blend wall color with colors found in the carpet.
      7.3.13.2. Use fewer color breaks to make a room seem larger. Many color breaks may
      make a room look cluttered. Paint doors (if applicable) and frames to match the walls in
      small rooms
      7.3.13.3. Avoid accent walls. The use of chair rails and wainscots tend to reduce the size
      of smaller spaces. Consider the size and scale of the room when a chair rail and wainscot
      is used.
   7.3.14. Pattern and Texture. Use pattern and texture to stimulate interest and tie the color
   schemes together. Consider the size of an item when deciding whether it should have a
   pattern and the size of a pattern to use. Vary the surface texture to add visual appeal in a
   one-color scheme, especially when the introduction of a new color is not desirable. Textures
   affect the way an object reflects light. Smooth, shiny surfaces reflect more light than rough,
   dull surfaces. Glossy surfaces are perceived as cold, while softer, matte finishes are
   distinguished as warm.
   7.3.15. Material Selection. Innovative and creative use of finishes and furnishings is
   always encouraged. New products are always being introduced to the market and often offer
   increased performance and aesthetics to the product line. Continuing education in product
   knowledge and research into product development are essential when making finish and
   furnishings selections.
   7.3.16. Durability. The function of the space will determine the amount of durability
   required; for example a maintenance hangar vs. family housing. A maintenance hangar is
   considered a severe wear area while family housing has is considered a moderate wear area.
   Aesthetics and how the finish/materials relate to the other design elements must also be
   considered, as well as cost justification.
7.4. Maintenance.
   7.4.1. The use of easily maintained finishes is critical. While certain finishes may provide
   excellent durability, the designer must also give serious consideration to maintenance
   requirements. The maintenance plans of many facilities have minimal quality assurance.
   Finishes that wear well and are lower in maintenance requirements (i.e., less frequency and
   less cleaning effort) perform best.       Provide manufacturers suggested maintenance
   information and emphasize the importance of a regular maintenance schedule to the user.
46                                                           AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


     7.4.2. Life Cycle Cost And Appeal The designer must consider product performance and
     longevity of appeal, as well as initial cost when making selections. If the appeal of the
     surface of a furniture item degrades, the user will want to replace it prematurely. A product
     that keeps its appearance and shape longer may be a better choice over time, even if the
     initial cost is higher.
     7.4.3. Sustainable Design. Avoid the use of finishes, adhesives, or furnishings that emit
     toxic fumes or pollutants during installation and curing. Use paints containing low-VOCs
     (EPA Guideline Items under the Affirmative Procurement Program). Consider products that
     are made from recycled materials (EPA Guideline Items under the Affirmative Procurement
     Program). Consider using furnishings, fabrics and finishes produced from recycled
     materials.
7.5. Interior Design Standards:
     7.5.1. Finish Materials. All finish materials must meet current National Fire Protection
     Association standards, fire codes, abrasion/wareability testing, ADA requirements and
     Sustainable Design standards. It is the user’s responsibility to ensure a product meets all
     required tests, not the manufacturer. Request verification documentation from the
     manufacturer; don’t rely on the words of a sales representative. The manufacturer can supply
     technical information with signed test results showing what their product meets or exceeds.
     If they cannot provide you with test information, do not use them. Where reasonable, order
     an additional 5 to 10 percent of finish materials to use for replacement and repair. This
     eliminates trying to track down matching materials in the future.
     7.5.2. Flooring Materials . Floor surfaces should be selected with both function and
     aesthetics in mind. Durability, resistance to wear, ease in maintenance, comfort underfoot
     and slip resistance are important features.
     7.5.3. Natural finish or sealed concrete floors are limited to maintenance areas, utility
     rooms, electrical rooms, storage areas and mechanical rooms. Chemically stained concrete
     can be a cost effective and attractive way to finish a high use floor area, i.e. lobbies, locker
     rooms, casual snack bar areas.
     7.5.4. Carpet or carpet tile should be used in most facilities unless functional requirements
     dictate otherwise. Exceptions are service, maintenance and industrial areas, laboratories,
     food preparation areas, toilets, and areas requiring frequent cleaning. Carpet tile is
     recommended in all administrative areas. Only patterned carpets with distinguishable
     designs of two or more colors and not shades of the same color are authorized. Avoid light
     colors, bold geometric patterns, and subdued tweeds. Services facilities shall use larger
     patterns in clubs and lodging lobbies and hallways. Patterned carpets help to “mask” soiling
     in traffic areas. Use solid colored carpets in executive suites, courtrooms, chapels, and DV
     type lodging facilities or as a border or inset. When selecting carpets, use a large sample. A
     small sample will not accurately show all colors or the overall pattern. The carpet sample
     should be viewed from the floor to see what it will actually look like. For specific
     requirements, minimum quality features, types and use locations, and selection guidance
     refer to ETL 07-4, Air Force Carpet Standard and the HQ AFCEE Carpet Selection
     Handbook.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                       47


  7.5.5. Tile. In high traffic areas and/or wet areas use a ceramic mosaic tile, quarry tile, or
  paver tile with an integral color throughout. Tiles are excellent for durability and low
  maintenance. These areas include building entries, reception counter areas, food lines,
  vending areas, food preparation areas, laundry areas, restrooms and lobbies. Minimize using
  tile with smooth glossy finishes, as they tend to be very slippery. It may be used as an accent
  tile in limited quantities. Grouts should be dark in color to hide stains and should be as small
  as possible to avoid staining and fallout of grout material in time.
  7.5.6. Rubber flooring. Is appropriate for vending areas, stairs, landings and some entry
  areas. Use one consistent color and type throughout a facility. Special rubber stair treads
  should be used for the stairways.
  7.5.7. Vinyl Composition Tile (VCT) or Linoleum. VCT or linoleum (a more sustainable
  product) should be limited to break rooms, vending areas, storage rooms, utility rooms and
  high traffic corridors. For areas where carpet is not practical or is too costly, VCT or
  Linoleum may be used with creative patterns or borders. Sheet goods should be used rather
  than tile in areas where multiple seams are a clean-up problem. This includes clean rooms,
  laboratories, childcare centers, and medical rooms.
  7.5.8. Raised Flooring. Special consideration must be given when using a raised flooring
  system in computer mainframe areas and laboratory spaces. These floor systems provide
  access to the wiring system in the floor and should utilize anti-static conductive floor tiles
  and/or carpet tiles (below 2.0 KV).
  7.5.9. Recessed Walk-Off Grids. Use a minimum of a 6 foot length in vestibules and on
  the interior side of doors that open directly to the outside to protect the carpet or tile surfaces.
  7.5.10. Wall Base . Use rubber base for its durability. A cove style base with a lip at the
  bottom should be used with rubber flooring and vinyl flooring. A straight style base should
  be used with carpet. Use pre-formed corners. An integral cove base with sheet vinyl
  flooring or linoleum should be used in areas, for example, where sterilization is a concern.
  This leaves no seam for liquids to collect. This includes clean rooms, laboratories, childcare
  centers, and medical rooms.
      7.5.10.1. Wood base is recommended in upgraded areas. Stain is preferred over paint.
      7.5.10.2. A tile base should be used with all tile floors. A cove style tile should be used
      that coordinates with the flooring tile.
  7.5.11. Wall Materials. Interior walls serve various purposes in a facility such as sound
  dampening, spatial separation, and privacy. A balance between aesthetics and functional
  needs must be met.
      7.5.11.1. Gypsum wallboard is the minimum standard except for utilitarian areas.
      Concrete masonry units are restricted to utility rooms, janitor closets, electrical rooms,
      storage rooms, heavy equipment rooms and maintenance areas or bays. All other existing
      block should be furred with gypsum wallboard or filled and covered with wall covering.
  7.5.12. Paint. Use an eggshell or satin paint finish on the walls. A flat paint is not as
  durable and tends to show scuffmarks quicker. An epoxy semi-gloss paint should be used in
  moist areas such as kitchens, toilets, laundry and medical rooms. All interior paints should
  be lead free, with no Volatile Organic Content (VOC) or low VOC.
48                                                           AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


     7.5.13. Wall coverings. Can be used to add visual interest, hide soiling, enhances design
     characteristics, and coordinate an overall color scheme. All types of wall covering (vinyl,
     fabric or acoustical) should be selected for each specific situation depending on the
     functional and durability requirements. Vinyl Wall coverings are categorized as follows:
        7.5.13.1. Type I (Residential) - 7 oz per sq yd minimum, used in distinguished visitors
        suites, GOQs and light-use areas
        7.5.13.2. Type II (Commercial) – 20-22oz per sq yd minimum, used for medium-use
        areas and high-use areas, corridors, and VQ and TLF units.
     7.5.14. Acoustical Wall Coverings may be used in auditoriums, education/training rooms,
     conference rooms, dining facilities, projection rooms, executive areas and large open lobbies.
     There are various types of acoustical wall materials and wall panels available that vary in
     levels of soundproofing. Usually the cost rises with a higher level of soundproofing material.
     7.5.15. Fabric Wall Coverings can be used in executive suites and executive conference
     rooms. Some fabric wall covering is hard to maintain and clean and should only be used in
     specialized areas unless it is manufactured as easily maintainable. All fabric wall covering
     must meet Fire Codes including a Class A rating and the NFPA 8.2 Corner Burn Test.
     7.5.16. Ceramic Tile is appropriate for use in all toilet and shower areas. As a minimum,
     tile must be used on all walls behind wet areas, but is preferred on all walls. Accent colors or
     varied shapes of tile can be used as a design feature. Quarry and ceramic tile, brick, glazing
     and glass block, and decorative polychromatic coatings can be used as function and budget
     requires.
     7.5.17. Wood. When wood is used for the walls it must have a Class A fire rating. Wood-
     look pressboard paneling is unacceptable.
     7.5.18. Prefinished Wallboard. Do not use gypsum wallboard prefinished with wallpaper
     or vinyl wall coverings. This material requires a seam between each panel and is
     unacceptable for. with quality permanent construction. These wallboards are very difficult
     to patch when dented or scratched.
     7.5.19. Chair Rails. Use chair rails in areas where there is high incidence of damage to the
     walls. This includes corridors with cart traffic, lounges, equipment storage areas and rooms
     with perimeter seating. A durable wood chair rail or molded impact resistant plastic bumper
     guard should be used to protect the wall surface. Place the chair rail at heights proportional
     to the wall height and at the appropriate height where the items will be damaging the wall.
     Usually 36 inches above the finished floor for chair rails and 40 inches for corridors with
     housekeeping carts.
     7.5.20. Fire Extinguisher Cabinets. All panel boxes and other equipment boxes should be
     recessed in the wall and match the wall color. All conduit, telephone wires, computer cables,
     pipes, etc., should be concealed behind the walls or in soffits.
     7.5.21. Hardware. All electrical switch plates, electronic devices, fire alarms, and light
     switches should match in color and coordinate with the overall color scheme and wall color.
     Ensure any fire alarm equipment that is painted to match the room color is manufacturer
     applied as to not void the warranty. Door hardware should be standardized throughout an
     entire facility.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                    49


  7.5.22. Ceiling Materials. The appropriate scale of a space is often determined by the
  height, lighting and detailing of the ceiling. Exposed ceilings should be used only as a
  deliberate design element or in maintenance areas, utility rooms, and electrical/mechanical
  rooms.
     7.5.22.1. Gypsum wallboard or plaster ceilings should be used in lodging, residential
     facilities, toilets, locker rooms, and dormitory sleeping rooms. Water-resistant gypsum
     board must be used in wet areas.
     7.5.22.2. Acoustical ceiling tile set in a suspended grid reduces the amount of sound that
     travels within the space and surrounding areas and offers access to structural, mechanical,
     communication and electrical systems. Ceiling tile standard is a white 2 ft by 2 ft tile
     with a white grid. Black tile with black grid may be used for projection rooms. A
     medium to light textured or fissured tile should be used. A heavy texture tile tends to
     look dirty on the ceiling as it casts shadows. There are many different styles and types of
     tile available on the market with varying characteristics. Appropriate research should be
     done to ensure a quality product that meets individual requirements.
     7.5.22.3. Metal ceilings may be used in high visibility areas if planned and designed
     carefully. Recommend for some high visibility areas a combination of different ceiling
     treatments along with accent lighting (not track) be used for added interest and design.
     This is appropriate for public areas, common areas, conference rooms and executive
     suites.
     7.5.22.4. Equipment added to the ceiling such as speakers, microphones, security
     devices, HVAC vents, and fire suppression system must match the ceiling color and not
     create an eyesore. Recess this equipment whenever possible.
  7.5.23. Lighting. Natural, ambient and task lighting should be provided in all areas.
  Architectural interest can be achieved with coves, soffits, up-lighting, recessed fixtures or
  with wall mounted fixtures such as sconces rather than just the typical 2 ft by 4 ft or 2 ft by 2
  ft fluorescent fixtures. In every case, energy consumption must be considered in the design
  and energy consumption minimized by using the most energy efficient fixtures and materials
  that will satisfy the design requirements.
     7.5.23.1. Overall ambient lighting in administration areas should be provided with 2 ft by
     2 ft fluorescent fixtures integral to the 2 ft by 2 ft ceiling grid system. Task lighting and
     flexibility of control should be provided at each individual work area.
     7.5.23.2. Floor lamps and table lamps should be used in living areas and lodging to
     create a home-like feeling.
     7.5.23.3. Lighting in the corridors needs to be carefully planned to avoid accentuating
     the length. Lighting fixtures need to be carefully selected and spaced. Excessive glare or
     color can occur if not carefully planned.        All wall sconces must meet the ADA
     guidelines.
     7.5.23.4. Bare bulbs are unacceptable. Use fixtures with a diffuser, lenses, globe, or
     concealed by a cove or soffit. Install uniform fluorescent lamp type (all warm white, or
     cool white etc.) in an area or facility and replace with matching type when re-lamping.
     Broken, worn or discolored lenses should be replaced with matching lenses.
50                                                             AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


     7.5.24. Window coverings. Use window coverings that enhance the overall design scheme
     and meet the functional requirements.
        7.5.24.1. Maintenance, industrial and laboratory areas should use blinds and not
        draperies, as they are easier to clean and maintain. Use neutral colored horizontal blinds
        1 inch wide or vertical blinds 2 inch to 3 inch wide for most applications. Areas that
        receive direct, high intensity natural light should consider a blind or window covering
        made of mesh that cuts out the glare but still allows natural light to filter in.
        7.5.24.2. A 100 percent inherently fire retardant fabric such FR Polyester should be used
        for draperies to meet fire standards and allow machine washing. Drapery hardware
        should be commercial grade, rated for heavy duty. All draperies should be lined with like
        fabric content as the face of the drapery, with exact matching pleats and weighted at the
        bottom for proper hanging. Draperies in executive areas should have a sheer behind the
        drapery for a more formal look.
     7.5.25. Upholstery. Consider the wearbility and abrasion testing when selecting upholstery.
     An industry standard for test wearability is the Wyzenbeck test, measured by “double-rubs”
     (DR). All upholstery manufacturers should be able to provide testing information. Use a
     patterned fabric, or stain resistant fabrics for areas where there is high probability of staining.
     The pattern will help hide the stain. Do not use a solid colored fabric for large items of
     furniture as it will show staining and wear.
7.6. Functional Areas:
     7.6.1. Entry/Lobby. Entrances and lobbies provide the first interior impression of a facility.
     The first impression of the facility will say a lot about the functions within the building. The
     architectural features found in the exterior design of the facility may be repeated in the lobby
     to provide a cohesive transition to the interior environment. Accent flooring design is an
     effective means of introducing color or making a smooth transition to the corridors. Durable
     building finishes should be used to hold up to high traffic and exposure to the outside
     elements. A recessed walk-off grid, minimum length of 6 feet, is a must prior to reaching
     any carpeted area.
     7.6.2. Corridors. Avoid designing corridors that have a long “tunnel-like” appearance.
     Careful treatment and delineation of vertical wall surfaces from the horizontal floor and
     ceiling planes is critical. A combination of a chair rail, lighting that runs the length of
     corridor, and carpet border only enhances the length of a long corridor. Emphasize vertical
     elements for balance. Corridors can be made interesting by adding a flooring pattern,
     lighting to accent artwork, washing walls with light, or wall sconces.
     7.6.3. Stairwells/Landings. Stairwells and landings should emulate the finish materials and
     attention to detail of the surrounding areas and not be treated as a separate entity. Stairwells
     can be used as a transition space that ties all floors together for a coordinated overall interior
     design.
     7.6.4. Restrooms. Design restrooms for easy cleaning and maintenance, but not at the
     expense of quality. Restroom fixtures should be wall mounted for easy cleaning of the
     floors. Wall mounted accessories should include a towel source, or hand dryer, mirrors;
     clothes hook for shower area and trash receptacle. All plumbing fixtures should be low flow,
     automated on/off water flow. All sinks should have a counter and a mirror that runs the
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                    51


   entire length of the counter. Toilet and urinal partitions should be a baked enamel finish,
   plastic laminate or solid recycled plastic. Do not use black seats on a white water closet.
   The entire water closet should be one color. Partitions for industrial areas should be
   prefinished metal. Ceilings in all bathrooms and locker areas should be a hard board, water
   resistant, painted surface. Flooring should be monolithic tile and walls should be tile behind
   wet areas. Tile is preferred for use on all walls.
   7.6.5. Locker Rooms. Locker rooms should provide an adequate number of lockers, be well
   ventilated, and be designed with materials that are easily cleaned and appropriate for wet
   areas. Space between the top of the lockers and ceiling shall be finished and flush with the
   front of lockers to avoid dust collecting on top of locker units. Lockers should have a vent
   on the unit and a shelf and clothes hook.
   7.6.6. Conference Rooms. Maximize the flexibility of conference rooms through the use of
   adjustable lighting, multipurpose seating, creative ceiling finishes, acoustical wall treatment,
   and multi-media presentation systems. Lighting combinations include fluorescence, can
   lights, indirect lighting, individual controls and dimming capabilities. Carefully plan the
   location of electrical outlets and consider floor-mounted outlets for audiovisual equipment
   and computers.
   7.6.7. Break Areas/Coffee Bars. Break areas and coffee bars are important in the office
   environment to support the needs of the workers. These areas should incorporate a counter
   area with storage underneath. Consider a designated space and electrical outlet for a coffee
   pot(s) refrigerator, microwave, and possibly vending machines.
7.7. Furniture:
   7.7.1. Specifications in this section provide the minimum standards for furniture procured by
   the AF. The warranty is a very important feature to consider when purchasing furniture.
   Research how each manufacturer deals with their warranties and response time. It is
   important to use the warranties when a problem arises rather than fix it yourself. When a
   piece of furniture is altered without the manufacturer’s guidance or assistance, the warranty
   is void. Too many times the AF does not use the warranty to its fullest extent. Several
   different categories of furniture exist with different funding sources.
   7.7.2. Conventional Furniture. Conventional furniture is the arrangement of freestanding
   furniture, including, but not limited to: administration furniture, dormitory furniture, lobby
   furniture, dining furniture, etc.
      7.7.2.1. This category of office furniture includes desks, credenzas, computer tables, and
      bookcases.
      7.7.2.2. Metal units with laminate work surfaces should meet the standards and
      construction of systems furniture, but be floor supported and stand-alone. Wood units
      should be a veneer with a hardwood edge. All units should have glides for leveling.
      7.7.2.3. All drawers should be able to receive dividers. Dovetail construction should be
      used on all corners. File drawers must utilize full extension, stop action progressive
      slides with precision ball bearing for no metal-to-metal connection for a smooth, quiet
      operation. File drawers must accommodate various filing options.
52                                                          AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


        7.7.2.4. All drawers should be lockable and keyed alike with removable cylinders for re-
        keying.
        7.7.2.5. All desktops should have two grommets a minimum of 2 inches diameter in size
        to allow for electrical cords. Location of grommets will vary depending on application.
     7.7.3. Modular Furniture. Modular furniture is similar to systems furniture except that all
     work surfaces are floor supported rather than panel supported. It is also referred to as
     automatic data processing (ADP) or electronic data processing (EDP) furniture. Modular
     furniture is comprised of components that are usually field replaceable or field reupholstered.
     For example, a user can just replace a damaged arm rather than a whole chair on site without
     taking the chair out of commission.
     7.7.4. Systems Furniture. Systems furniture is defined as the assembly of panels,
     components, and accessory items that are panel connected and panel supported to form
     complete individual offices (work areas). It is not freestanding/modular furniture enclosed
     by panels.
        7.7.4.1. Systems furniture is the combination of various sized panels that support
        individual components to create a work area or workstation. Systems furniture is
        typically used in an open office plan and should not be used in individual offices. It is
        not cost effective to purchase panels to put up against existing walls that already provide
        privacy. Individual hard wall offices should use conventional or modular furniture.
        Systems furniture components consist of work surfaces, shelving, file cabinets, storage
        units, lighting, counters, and drawers. Accessory items include coat hook, tack boards,
        paper organizers, and shelf dividers.
        7.7.4.2. Systems furniture allows for a high degree of flexibility in open office plans and
        flexibility in individual workstations. It is a modular system with a wide variety of
        components to choose from to meet the user’s needs. Specialized components are
        available to meet the needs of office areas, libraries, medical clinics and educational
        systems. Most systems provide hanging slots at 1” increments, maximizing height
        adjustment possibilities for all components. Systems furniture offers various electrical
        components and raceways and options for both ambient and task lighting.
        7.7.4.3. Open office plan is the elimination of interior hard walls while maintaining
        essential divisions and building support, but not an enclosed division. Semi-private
        spaces are developed through the use of partial height panels arranged to facilitate the
        workflow and functional tasks. To accommodate the dual needs of privacy and
        communication, work areas should provide visual privacy one direction, but personal
        interaction when facing another direction. For more complex tasks and team settings,
        private work areas surrounding common group areas should be provided. Use panels to
        separate adjacent work areas only where necessary to avoid excessively
        compartmentalized mazes. When designing open office plans, do not forget to plan
        dedicated areas for coffee, vending machines, coat storage, and break areas.
        7.7.4.4. A single type or manufacturer of systems furniture should be used throughout an
        entire facility. A hierarchy of spaces should be designed that range from clerk/secretary
        level to office worker to supervisory levels based on workstation size and additional
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                   53


     components needed per work area. Each standard workstation layout should be
     standardized throughout an entire facility.
     7.7.4.5. Vary the height of the panels throughout an area to add interest and match
     specific function. Use a lower panel plus or minus 42 inches for reception or waiting
     areas permitting a longer viewing distance or for panels against a window. Use a plus or
     minus 60-inch panel for spaces requiring visual privacy and acoustical support when at a
     seated position. Panels that are taller than 60 inches tend to create an undesired maze or
     tunnel effect. Tall panels should be used to a minimum and can be incorporated into a
     design at various locations to add a vertical element. Panels that exceed 69 inches in
     height are considered to form corridors by Uniform Building Code and must meet exiting
     requirements.
     7.7.4.6. Most of the office systems furniture typical layouts rely heavily or exclusively
     on square component shapes and orthogonal space layouts. The introduction of curved
     panels, panels placed at different angles, and panel windows will provide physical and
     visual relief, helping to break-up the “boxy” maze of repetitive spaces. Locations
     appropriate for this treatment include corner panels at the beginning or end of a series of
     paneled spaces, at intersections of circulation corridors, and at panels near reception
     areas. Acrylic glazed window panels are unacceptable as they exceed flame spread and
     smoke development requirements.
     7.7.4.7. Acoustical performance ratings should be based upon the workstation design.
     While the sound transmission class (STC) and noise reduction coefficient (NRC) rating
     contribute to the overall acoustical performance, the acoustical role of panels is relatively
     minimal in the overall environment when compared to sound absorptive properties of
     other finish surfaces. In addition, panel hung components greatly reduce the quantity of
     acoustical contributing area.
     7.7.4.8. When designing the layout and sizing of the electric distribution system serving
     pre-wired systems furniture the designer needs to consider other sources of harmonics
     and the cumulative effect of harmonics on upstream portions of the system. Harmonics
     cause distorted waveforms, a concentration of currents in the neutral and consequent
     heating of associated conductors and equipment. Since electronic data processing (EDP)
     equipment generates high levels of harmonics, a full size neutral should be provided for
     each EDP circuit. The panel electrical system should be 4-circuit/8 wire with two
     oversized neutrals to reduce the harmonic imbalance. An overall review of the electrical
     system should be done by a qualified electrical engineer prior to the purchase of the
     system furniture to be sure the building can support the new furniture.
  7.7.5. Pre-Wired Systems Furniture. Pre-wired systems furniture is that assembly of
  panels and components hard-wired directly into the building electrical system. The panels
  contain building utilities such as electrical wiring, convenience outlets, hook-ups for
  computer equipment and communications wiring.
  7.7.6. Operational Seating:
     7.7.6.1. Use a 5-prong base for stability. Casters should be a dual hard wheel for carpet
     or single soft wheel for hard flooring surfaces.
54                                                         AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


        7.7.6.2. Arms should be replaceable or removable in the field. Use a molded plastic arm
        for most applications as upholstered arms tend to soil easily with high use.
        7.7.6.3. Chair backs should provide upper back support and contour to provide lumbar
        support. The seat pan should angle slightly to the back for more comfortable seating
        towards the back of the chair and have a waterfall front to ease pressure on the back of
        the knees.
        7.7.6.4. Conference table type seating requires a swivel/tilt mechanism and height
        adjustment. Task related chairs should have an additional back angle adjustment with an
        upright locking position, a seat pan adjustment and a back height adjustment.
        7.7.6.5. All fabrics should be treated with soil retardant. Base, arms, outer shell and
        casters should be the same color if all molded plastic. In executive areas the arms may be
        wood or upholstered and the base may be wood. All other areas should use molded
        plastic arms.
     7.7.7. Stationary or Stack Chairs:
        7.7.7.1. This is multi-purpose seating with stacking, ganging, and tablet arm options.
        This is appropriate seating for briefing rooms, cafeterias, side chairs for conference
        rooms and offices, and training areas. When used for stacking purposes, purchase dollies
        to use in transportation. Tablet arms should be adjustable and move out to the side of the
        chair when not in use.
        7.7.7.2. Chair frame should be chrome or a powder coated epoxy finish. Wood can be
        used in executive conference rooms or executive areas.
        7.7.7.3. Use four posted legs for chairs that are stationary and not moved around much
        when occupied, such as perimeter seating in a conference room. Use a sled based chair
        for a sliding motion when scooting in and out from under a table or desk. Provide
        appropriate glides for either carpet or hard floor surfaces. Use clear glides on hard floor
        surfaces as black glides tend to leave marks.
        7.7.7.4. Seating used in dining facilities or cafeterias should have “wipe-out channels”
        for ease of cleaning or a separate back and seat that do not touch. This eliminates an area
        for food to collect.
     7.7.8. Lounge Seating:
        7.7.8.1. This is defined as seating that is fully upholstered for lobbies, waiting areas,
        lounge areas, dayrooms, lodging rooms, and executive private offices.
        7.7.8.2. All internal frame parts should be kiln-dried hardwood. All exposed parts
        should be cut from #1 common or better grade of hardwood with uniform grain and color
        uniformity.
        7.7.8.3. Frame joints should be carefully fitted and secured with dowels. Frames must be
        reinforced with corner blocks, mitered to fit, securely glued and screwed into position
        while the frame is in the clamp to ensure squareness and tightness of joints. Frames held
        together by staples are unacceptable.
        7.7.8.4. Seat foundation is to be 8-1/2 gauge sinuous wire springs clinched to insulated
        tie wires and strapped to the tie rails and back post. Back construction is 11-gauge wire
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                 55


     spring construction stretched between top and bottom spring rails and secured with
     double staples. The spring system should be covered with noise free insulating fabric and
     stapled to the frame on all sides.
     7.7.8.5. Seat shall be cushioned with 1.80 lbs density polyurethane foam with 32 lbs of
     construction. Each seat cushion shall be wrapped with resin treated polyester fiber to
     give a smooth even finished cushion. The back and arm cushions should be 1.10 lbs
     density polyurethane foam with 20 pounds for back and 35 pounds for arms compression.
     Back and arms should be topped with blended fiber batting for a smooth even
     appearance. All units should be constructed to allow for field reupholstering and repair.
     7.7.8.6. All upholstery should be treated with soil retardants. All patterns should be
     matched on the vertical and horizontal for a uniform pattern on the entire piece.
  7.7.9. Tables:
     7.7.9.1. Use a laminate top with a vinyl edging, self-edge, or solid wood edge. Wood
     veneer top is appropriate for conference rooms and executive areas. Tops should not
     exceed 30 inches in height for sitting applications.
     7.7.9.2. Tops should be a one-piece construction unless the table length is too long to fit
     in a doorway and must come shipped in pieces. Core material must meet or exceed
     strength requirements for commercial standards. Particleboard must have a minimum
     density of 48 lbs per cu ft. The core must be sanded top and bottom and without any
     rough edges. Laminate or veneer must be glued uniformly and evenly to ensure adhesion
     and stability. Applied edging must be mitered to ensure perfect edging. All wood edges
     must be a hardwood.
     7.7.9.3. All bases must be appropriately sized to match the top. All metal bases should
     be a powder coated or chrome finish. Wood bases are appropriate for all wood table tops.
     All bases should have leveling glides. High quality folding tables may be used for dining
     rooms to allow changes in table layout.
  7.7.10. Filing Cabinets:
     7.7.10.1. Metal cabinets should be rolled metal seamless on 3 sides with rounded corners
     for a smooth look. Wood cabinets should use a veneer with a hardwood edge.
     7.7.10.2. All cabinets require an interlock system on drawers so only one drawer may be
     extended at a time. Drawers should have a ball-bearing suspension system with an anti-
     rebound device. Drawer pulls should be recessed so they do not get knocked off or get in
     the way of traffic.
     7.7.10.3. All lateral files should have front-to-back and side-to-side filing options.
     Options should be allowed for a fixed shelf on five high units, roll-out shelves and
     drawers. All units should have glides or leveling devices to ensure drawers or doors open
     properly.
     7.7.10.4. Color should be electro-statically applied at the factory.
  7.7.11. Temporary Lodging Facilities And Dormitories:
56                                                           AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


        7.7.11.1. This furniture includes headboards and bed frames, nightstands, wardrobes,
        units with drawers and open shelves, TV armoires, desks, writing tables, dressers, chests,
        mirrors, end tables, and cocktail tables.
        7.7.11.2. All solid parts and wood veneers should be northern red oak or equal hardwood
        for durability. The finished product can be treated and stained to get the color required to
        match the rest of the room. All furniture should be constructed of solid wood veneers or
        hardwood solids of five-ply plywood with wood veneers. Particleboard and cardboard
        are not acceptable. Back piece must be equal to the sides in thickness or a minimum of
        1/4 inch. Desktops, end tables, coffee tables and nightstands may be surfaced in a plastic
        laminate to match the wood grain and finish of other exposed items. Hardwood impact
        edges should be used.
        7.7.11.3. Drawer fronts, doors, desktops, and other components should be removable and
        replaceable on site. This extends the life of a product by changing individual damaged
        parts rather than ordering an entire new unit.
        7.7.11.4. Preferred method of construction is a dry construction method with metal-to-
        metal connections. This method creates a stronger, more durable case due to the absence
        of glue joints, which tend to fail. The screws, hinges, etc. should be concealed or inserted
        into the solid lumber. This gives a clean, high quality look. Units held together with
        only glue and staples are unacceptable.
        7.7.11.5. All drawer joints should have dovetail joinery. All pulls should be flush or
        recessed for dormitory furniture with high use. This prevents the pulls from being pulled
        or knocked off. Drawer bottom should sit in a grooved area of the drawer sides and be
        reinforced. Use epoxy coated metal drawer slides with nylon bearing rollers and have an
        automatic stop feature.
        7.7.11.6. TV armoires and shelving units should have grommet holes in the back to run
        electrical and telephone cords. All large units should come with leveling glides.
7.8. Artwork and Accessories:
     7.8.1. Artwork. Artwork for a building should be purchased by the AF for public spaces
     and common areas. This includes waiting areas, lobbies, corridors, conference rooms, break
     rooms, lodging rooms, and recreational areas. Artwork for individual offices, dormitory
     rooms, and workstations should be left up to the occupant.
        7.8.1.1. Artwork throughout an entire facility should follow set standards for matting and
        framing. There should also be a consistent theme. Suggestive or controversial subjects
        should be avoided. A facility with more than one floor can change their scheme on each
        floor as long as there is some type of transition.
        7.8.1.2. Consider using security locks on any artwork located in areas where it may have
        a tendency to be pilfered. All artwork must be attached to the wall in a manner that keeps
        the piece straight and aligned.
     7.8.2. Artificial Plants. Artificial plants should be purchased with a flame retardant finish.
     7.8.3. Bulletin Boards/Tack Boards:
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                               57


     7.8.3.1. Bulletin boards or tack boards should be supplied at common areas to put up
     notices and announcements. Do not allow this type of information to be taped to the
     walls or on doors--it looks unprofessional and the tape takes the finish off the surface.
     7.8.3.2. The type and style of board should match the signage found throughout the
     facility. It should coordinate with the other building finishes.
58                                                         AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


                                            Chapter 8

                                INTERIOR SIGN STANDARDS

8.1. General Information:
     8.1.1. Uniformity. Interior signage is an important information source and unifying element
     in all of our facilities. Interior signage should conform to the standards established in UFC
     3-120-01 Air Force Sign Standard. The AFSPC standard is to have all interior signage in a
     facility consistent and uniform in color, style, type, and format. To the maximum degree
     possible, this consistency should be maintained throughout an installation. Uniform signage
     looks professional and contributes to the organization’s credibility.
     8.1.2. Compatibility. Ensure interior signs are compatible with interior architectural color
     schemes. Keep interior signs to a minimum. Ask: “Is this sign necessary?” Make work area
     signs clear and meaningful. Ask: “How important is this message?”
     8.1.3. Colors. Colors on interior signs for AFSPC facilities should match the building
     interior design scheme. Sign colors should be dark background with light letters for high
     contrast. The background should be a dark neutral color, such as black, dark gray, bronze,
     blue, etc. Corners may be rounded, if preferred.
8.2. Mounting:
     8.2.1. All interior signage must be mounted in a frame or in a signage system designed for
     and consistent throughout the facility. Door mounted signage is discouraged.
     8.2.2. All interior signs in a facility must be mounted consistently. All signs of the same
     type must be mounted at the same height wherever possible.
     8.2.3. Use easels for the display of large, rigid, temporary posters and announcements of
     short-term events. Taping notices of special events, temporary directions, etc., on walls,
     windows, and doors is not authorized in AFSPC facilities as it damages the finish, increases
     maintenance costs, and is unsightly.
     8.2.4. Smaller paper rosters, notices, and other unframed items of a temporary nature should
     be neatly arranged on a framed bulletin board. Rosters, notices, and photographs within
     individual cubicles or offices should also be framed or placed on bulletin boards. They
     should be neatly arranged and in good taste. Do not hang items on systems furniture that
     may tear the fabric.
8.3. Interior Sign Recommendations:
     8.3.1. Characteristics: While there are many different types and styles of interior signage,
     the following interior signage characteristics have been found to work well in our facilities
     and satisfy the essential characteristics of flexibility, durability, low maintenance,
     availability, and clarity.
        8.3.1.1. Use a layered construction of acrylic sheet providing a removable strip with die
        cut vinyl letters for office symbols and occupant names.
        8.3.1.2. The design should provide for a monolithic, one-piece look when lettering strips
        are in place.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                              59


     8.3.1.3. Replacement lettering should be easily accomplished by maintenance personnel
     without requiring removal of the sign frame.
     8.3.1.4. Interior lobby directories shall have replacement inserts. Only departments or
     room numbers shall be shown; individual names should not be posted.
     8.3.1.5. Interior graphics or murals are not permitted. Graphics include names and
     numbers, “racing stripes,” murals, slogans, shields, crests, and pictographs. Large size
     supergraphics are not acceptable in any type of facility.
60                                                        AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


                                           Chapter 9

                                DORMITORY STANDARDS

9.1. General. The Air Force has established standards for dormitories published in the AF
Unaccompanied Housing Design Guide. These standards apply to all AFSPC installations.
AFSPC units tenant on another MAJCOM/DoD installation will adhere to AF standards and the
host command’s dormitory standards. Although the information contained within this guide
pertains mainly to new construction, engineers, architects and programmers should attempt to
implement the same types of features during major dormitory upgrades/renovations whenever
possible.
9.2. Other Standards. In general, the standards under other chapters of this handbook are also
applicable to dormitories.
9.3. Importance. Dormitory standards are required to maintain certain levels of quality in
dormitories to support the mission and quality of life for personnel. The design of facility
interiors directly impacts the quality of life for dormitory occupants. Interior scale, senses of
place, order, and wholeness, harmony of color and texture, utility, economics, and safety must be
synthesized with architectural spaces and user programs. Much can be done to enhance the
appearance and perception of rooms and spaces of limited size through thoughtful configuration
of plan, volume and openings, and well-scaled detailing, finishes, and furnishings selections.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                     61


                                           Chapter 10

                           MECHANICAL SYSTEM STANDARDS

10.1. General. The purpose of this chapter is to familiarize the maintenance or design engineer
with AFSPC guidance for the planning, maintenance, repair, design, tuning, and/or installation of
mechanical systems in AFSPC facilities.
10.2. Applicability. AFSPC has established the following guidance for planning, designing,
and operating mechanical systems throughout the Command. This guidance applies to mission
critical and non-mission critical facilities at all AFSPC installations. The information contained
within this guide pertains to the maintenance and repair of existing facilities and the construction
of new facilities.
10.3. Standards. The intent of this chapter is to provide AFSPC guidance, in addition to the
standing requirements, to follow local building codes, MILSPECs, AFI's, etc.(see reference list
at Attachment 1).
10.4. Concept. Mechanical systems vary vastly from installation to installation. Systems at the
facility level are to adhere to the practices and/or directives prescribed by local building codes,
military handbooks, AFI's, and engineering technical letters. However, to promote excellence in
mechanical systems, each installation should have the following key elements to enhance base
mechanical systems: 1) a design guide for mechanical systems: new and renovation, 2) a master
plan for the central Energy Management and Control System, 3) an HVAC commissioning
procedure, and 4) A joint Energy, Controls, HVAC working group.
10.5. Design Guide. A base-specific design guide is the first step to ensuring that base
mechanical equipment will be the most appropriate. Based on base preferences, mission,
climate, and other factors, this guide relays to the designer and contractor the basis for their
design. It could prescribe preferred EMCS requirements, boiler and chiller type, condensing
units, configuration requirements to ensure mission RAM (reliability, availability, and
maintainability), mechanical room requirements, location of air handling equipment, and any
number of other installation preferences and standards. This guide calls for adherence to
ASHRAE 90.1 standards, premium efficiency motors (minimum efficiency rating of 93%),
ground source heat pumps and ICE thermal storage options. It should also encourage zone
design, with separate areas and separate HVAC support for equipment and personnel. Design for
mission growth or facility usage changes should also be encouraged. There are very few
limitations on the breadth of the design guide.
10.6. Master Plan For EMCS System. At many AF Space Command installations, the role of
the Energy Management and Control System (EMCS) has been greatly expanded. Some EMCS
systems have even changed their name to reflect this expanding role, and are known as Operation
Management and Control Systems (OMCS). Every installation with a central system should
have a plan for expansion and standard design instructions for new construction/renovation
projects in accordance with AFI 33-210, Air Force Certification and Accreditation (C&A)
Program (AFCAP), 23 Dec 08. The only practical limit to the uses of an OMCS is your
imagination. There are opportunities to save energy as well as energy money. For example, by
reducing demand charges, detecting water line leaks for immediate repair, etc. As technology
advances and capabilities increase, the plan should be updated to ensure the systems' capabilities
62                                                       AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


are maximized. In short, it should summarize what capabilities you currently have, how you are
using them, which do you want in the future, and how you are going to accomplish them. It
should answer the question: How are you keeping up with technology?
10.7. HVAC Commissioning Policy. Critical to any buildings' proper operation are well
designed, installed, and maintained heating, ventilating, air conditioning (HVAC) and supply
systems. To ensure initial maximum possible efficiency, newly installed systems should be
formally commissioned. This process should include the designer, installer, and shop personnel
in tandem with formal classroom training on the operational scheme of the HVAC system.
10.8. Energy Conservation, Controls, HVAC, EMCS and Energy Savings Performance
Contract (ESPC) Working Group. HVAC systems are typically the highest energy consumers
on an installation. They also generate the most customer complaints if comfortable temperatures
are not being maintained, as well as potential mission downtime. To address these issues, an
installation can profit greatly by coordinating efforts on a day-to-day basis, as areas of
responsibility overlap extensively.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                  63


                                          Chapter 11

                               CIVIL SYSTEM STANDARDS

11.1. General: The purpose of this chapter is to familiarize the maintenance or design engineer
with AFSPC policy for the maintenance, repair, and/or installation of civil systems in AFSPC
facilities. Civil systems, is the broad definition of those base infrastructure items such as
roofing, pavements, and structures.
   11.1.1. Applicability. AFSPC has established the following standards for civil systems
   throughout the Command. These standards apply to mission critical and non-mission critical
   facilities at all AFSPC installations. The information contained within this guide pertains to
   the maintenance and repair of existing facilities and the construction of new facilities.
   11.1.2. Other Standards. The intent of this chapter is to provide some AFSPC guidance
   above and beyond existing codes and regulations. Also, a list of related guidelines,
   instructions, regulations, and other reference documents is found at the end of this chapter
   and you are encouraged to use this additional guidance in the design of civil systems. In
   addition to the reference documents, municipal, county, and state codes may provide further
   guidance for the engineer.
11.2. Roofs:
   11.2.1. The objective of a roof maintenance program is to reduce the life cycle cost of
   AFSPC roofs. Roof management involves periodic inspections, routine maintenance and
   repair, and correct application of quality roofing products. Roofing systems shall be conform
   to UFC 3-110-03, Roofing.
       11.2.1.1. Choose roofing systems appropriate to the building and weather conditions.
       Avoid complex roofing profiles that are difficult to waterproof, design, construct, and
       maintain. Minimize penetrations to roofs.
       11.2.1.2. Roofing systems selected must consider fire resistance, loading requirements
       (dead, live snow/water and wind loads), and chemical pollutants.
       11.2.1.3. Minimize the mounting of mechanical and electrical equipment on the roof.
       When unavoidable, equipment should be mounted on structural curbs or jacks using
       NRCA construction details. Fall protection measures and maintenance walkways shall be
       incorporated into all new and replacement roofing systems where equipment maintenance
       is required.
       11.2.1.4. Designers must show the relationship of the roofing system to roof decking and
       insulation as well as flashing materials and the building structure in the project design
       details. Ridges, valleys, eaves, parapet walls, transitions in slope or material, special
       conditions, and penetrations must be detailed by the designer on the project drawings.
       The NRCA Roofing and Waterproofing Manual provides excellent practical application
       guidance.
       11.2.1.5. Over-the-eaves drainage in cold climates can be problematic if snow and ice
       issues are not considered early in the design process. Snow guards should be designed on
       roof systems to preclude sudden falling of snow and ice. Issues that designers should
64                                                          AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


        consider are contained in the Cold Regions Research & Engineering Laboratory
        (CRREL) report MP-01-5663, Minimizing the Adverse Effects of Snow and Ice on
        Roofs.
        11.2.1.6. All expansion joints, if required, should be placed at the high point on the roof,
        with drainage directed away from them. Expansion joints must allow movement in three
        directions.
        11.2.1.7. Effects of corrosion shall be considered when selecting an appropriate roofing
        systems. Metal components should be minimized when a severe corrosive environment
        is present.
        11.2.1.8. Generally, light colored reflective roofing systems, which are energy efficient,
        should be considered for use on all building roofs. Visual color compatibility and
        architectural continuity should be maintained. Geographic and environmental conditions,
        structural roof limits, life cycle cost effectiveness, and climatic circumstances should be
        taken into consideration for designing these roofing systems. The base Facilities
        Excellence Plan (FEP) should address the use of energy efficient roofing systems.
        Energy Star TM systems should always be considered first for these roofing systems.
        11.2.1.9. Incorporate, where appropriate, high-albedo roofing materials. High-albedo
        materials can save cooling energy directly by reducing the heat gain through a building
        envelope. 'Albedo' is a measure of the radiation reflected from a material compared to
        that falling on it. With high-albedo (reflective) materials, up to 85% of the incident
        short-wave radiation can be reflected, thus reducing the heat gain in buildings.
        Significant savings in cooling energy may be possible.
        11.2.1.10. A computer system, such as Micro ROOFER, shall be used for maintenance
        management of roofs. All roofs will be maintained to the extent that a Roofing Condition
        Index of 7 or better, as given the AFCESA Roofing Field Guides, is achieved.
     11.2.2. Low-Slope Roof. Low slope roofing systems are weatherproof membrane types of
     roof systems installed on slopes at or less than 3:12 (14 degrees). Types of low sloped
     roofing systems include bituminous built-up (BUR), modified bitumen (MB) roofing, single-
     ply (i.e., PVC, EPDM), sprayed-in-place polyurethane foam (SPF), and standing seam metal
     roofing (SSMR).
        11.2.2.1. The minimum slope for most low-slope roof construction of new buildings is
        ½:12 to achieve positive drainage. Manufacturers’ recommendations may require a
        greater slope.
        11.2.2.2. SSMR specifications must require all parts of standing seam metal roofing
        systems to be of a single supplier and require that the manufacturer draw and certify the
        shop drawings for this system. The roofing designer must review the shop drawings to
        assure the intent of the project design is maintained. The specifications must require that
        the installer show proof of certification as a trained installer of the system provided. The
        specifications should require that the manufacturer’s representative be on-site or readily
        available while the roof system is being applied to insure quality installation.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                  65


      11.2.2.3. The methods of attachment of single ply roofing membranes to the roof must
      be carefully designed and all factors, especially weather and wind loadings, considered.
      Fully adhered membranes are preferable to all ballasted membranes.
      11.2.2.4. Consider using low-maintenance “extensive” vegetated roofs where practical.
      Vegetated roofs have several advantages including controlling storm water runoff,
      prolonging the service life of the roof, and reducing energy consumption. Consider
      maintenance requirements including irrigation during periods of drought and creation of
      bird habitats in proximity to airfields. Refer to the Whole Building Design Guide
      at http://www.wbdg.org/ for additional information.
      11.2.2.5. Converting low-slope roofs to pitched roofs (where feasible) can lengthen roof
      life and reduce maintenance and repair costs. Detailed guidance and a standardized
      methodology for slope conversion require economic analysis based on life cycle cost
      calculations and is provided in AFI32-1051, Roof Systems Management, attachment 2.
   11.2.3. Pitched Roof. A pitched, or steep slope, roofing systems are water-shedding types
   of roof coverings installed on slopes greater than 3:12 (14 degrees) and typically consist of
   asphalt or composite shingles, slate, tile, and metal roofing. The user monitors these roofs,
   and roof maintenance personnel respond to issues according to the warranty.
      11.2.3.1. Asphalt shingles may not be used on slopes lower than 4:12 for new
      construction.
      11.2.3.2. Clay and standard concrete tiles are the preferred tile system. Avoid using
      lightweight concrete tiles unless required for structural and aesthetic reasons.
          11.2.3.2.1. Tile fasteners must be stainless steel or copper, 1-inch engagement in the
          substrate. Fastener heads shall be of sufficient diameter to prevent pull over of tile.
          Galvanized fasteners may not be used. Do not use wire ties to fasten tiles to the roof
          deck.
      11.2.3.3. While metal shingles and metal panels offer some advantages in appearance
      and wind and fire resistance over other steep roofing products, the potential for corrosion
      must be considered. Prior to specifying these products, the designer must demonstrate the
      life cycle cost benefits by confirming with actual case histories the longevity of these
      materials in similar service conditions. Do not use metal shingles and metal panels in
      areas where the average rainfall exceeds 380 mm (15 in.) per year, and in areas where
      extreme freeze-thaw cycles occur, unless there is good empirical data to support
      performance estimates. The manufacturer’s warranty may not be used to support
      performance claims.
      11.2.3.4. Wood roofing materials shall not be used.
11.3. Pavement:
   11.3.1. General:
      11.3.1.1. The computer Micro PAVER Management system will be used to manage and
      maintain pavements. All pavements (airfield and road) will be maintained to the extent
      that they attain a Pavement Condition Index (PCI) of 70 or better.
66                                                         AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


        11.3.1.2. Trenchless horizontal directional boring methods should be used to install
        utility lines/pipes under pavements in lieu of open trenching.
        11.3.1.3. Maintenance and repair of existing pavement surfaces should conform as
        closely as possible to the original construction in design, material, strength, appearance,
        and texture.
        11.3.1.4. Free draining base course under pavements and pavement edge drains should
        be provided to remove runoff water away from the area.
        11.3.1.5. The traffic loadings must be carefully determined to safely design the thickness
        of the pavement structure. In addition, allowance should be made for future traffic
        requirements, which might increase these loadings.
     11.3.2. Airfield Pavements:
        11.3.2.1. Airfield pavements will consist of two general types: rigid (Portland cement
        concrete) and flexible (asphaltic concrete).
        11.3.2.2. Rigid pavement should be used for all parking/maintenance apron areas,
        primary taxiways, and runway ends. While rigid pavement will remain the standard
        bearer, either rigid or flexible pavement may be used between both of the runway end
        areas.
        11.3.2.3. Shoulders along taxiways and aprons subjected to jet blast, aircraft outrigger
        loads, and emergency vehicle loads should be paved with asphalt.
        11.3.2.4. Overrun areas should be designed as flexible pavement in areas where soils
        there are unsatisfactory.
        11.3.2.5. Jet fuel resistant joint compounds should be used in joints on aprons and
        holding pads.
        11.3.2.6. Rigid pavement joints should be spaced not greater than 20 feet. Joint widths
        should be a minimum of 1/2 inch.
        11.3.2.7. Slope gradients of pavements should provide positive drainage away from the
        pavement.
        11.3.2.8. Airfield pavements will be kept clear of all snow and ice in accordance with the
        base snow and ice removal plan.
     11.3.3. Road Pavements:
        11.3.3.1. Pavement types for streets and roads should be selected on the basis of lower
        first cost, except where dictated by operational requirements. Flexible pavements
        (asphaltic concrete) will continue to be the road pavement standard bearer.
        11.3.3.2. Pavement slope gradients should provide positive drainage away from the
        pavement.
        11.3.3.3. Curbs and gutters should be Portland cement concrete and be provided for
        drainage and erosion control and protection of shoulders and pavement edges. Curbs and
        gutters should be constructed around main built-up areas of the base. Curbs and gutters
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                 67


      should not normally be constructed along secondary perimeter roads and non-built-up
      areas of the base.
      11.3.3.4. Recycled waste materials such as rubber, plastic, and glass should be
      considered through prudent engineering design for application as admixtures in road
      pavements to improve properties and help the environment.
      11.3.3.5. The recycling/reuse of old asphalt pavements should be considered with careful
      design for new road pavement construction applications to improve economies and the
      environment.
      11.3.3.6. The recycling/reuse of old concrete pavements should be considered with
      sound design for new road base course under-pavement applications to improve
      economies and the environment.
      11.3.3.7. The use of engineering fabrics should be considered for use in road pavements
      and base courses to retard reflective cracking.
      11.3.3.8. Permeable pavers and pavements reduce the footprint of the site’s impervious
      area and have several environmental benefits such as reduction of runoff volume and rate,
      pollutant filtering, flow dispersion, and groundwater recharge. Permeable pavements are
      most applicable for use in parking lots and sidewalks. Refer to UFC 3-210-10, Low
      Impact Development for maintenance and cost considerations. Pervious pavements shall
      be designed in accordance with UFGS-32 10 00, Pervious Bituminous Concrete
      Pavement or UFGS 32 13 13, Pervious Portland Cement Concrete Pavement for Roads
      and Site Facilities.
11.4. Structures:
   11.4.1. Design must consider both the life-cycle cost and maintainability features to produce
   reliable, energy efficient and safe facilities.
   11.4.2. Design and construction should provide structures with present and continuing
   utility, durability and desirability, and will incorporate aesthetically harmonious colors,
   materials, and textures.
   11.4.3. Local climatic conditions must be given serious consideration in selection, design
   and detailing of the structural system. Certain construction and environmental conditions can
   influence performance of the structure.
   11.4.4. Siting of metal buildings at coastal locations should be avoided due to the corrosive
   environment. Durable, maintenance free non-metallic exterior wall systems should be used
   in these areas.
   11.4.5. A structural system selection study and comparative analysis on at least three
   competitive structural systems should be accomplished at the concept project definition
   stage. A parametric cost analysis of each system should be performed for comparing
   alternate systems. The main structural members should be accurately sized and checked for
   compatibility with ceiling, duct, lighting, and other space demands.
   11.4.6. Design loadings for service live loads, roof and floor dead loads, must be carefully
   determined to size structural members. Wind loads, lateral earth pressure loads, hydraulic
   uplift loads, seismic loadings, harmonic vibration loads, etc. must be considered in design
68                                                           AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


     along with those areas of the structure that may be affected by these loads. Also, allowance
     should be made for future requirements that might increase these loadings.
     11.4.7. Special design considerations, such as blast, fire and shock requirements must be
     included.
     11.4.8. Allowance must be made in the design process of the structure for equipment, cranes,
     hoists, and elevators. Also, handicapped design features must be included in the design of
     structures.
     11.4.9. Where future expansion of the building is anticipated, design provisions must be
     carefully developed and accounted for so that projected construction may be added with
     minimum interference.
     11.4.10. Protective construction features should be considered in all structural designs of
     buildings.
     11.4.11. Structures should not be sited over active geological faults, unstable areas subject to
     landslides and soil liquefaction, or in areas subject to tsunami damage.
     11.4.12. Exposed ferrous structural members which are located in severe corrosive
     environments must have protective coatings applied to them, such as inorganic zinc, epoxy,
     etc.
     11.4.13. In corrosive environments, consideration should be given to the use of composites,
     galvanized steel, aluminized steel, etc. for structural beams and columns if structural loadings
     and codes will allow the reduction in strength of members.
     11.4.14. Foundations for structures will be constructed of reinforced concrete or steel pilings
     of adequate strength and size to safely support all loadings applied to the soils beneath.
     11.4.15. To obtain optimal seismic resistance and performance, a symmetrically configured
     structural framing system with effectively and efficiently placed lateral resisting elements
     (shear walls and braced frames) must be considered. Also, seismic considerations may
     require limits on the height of structures and design configurations.
     11.4.16. Structures to be constructed in typhoon and hurricane areas will be designed so
     structural integrity and continuity are provided from the foundation to the roof, irrespective
     of the materials selected for the facility. Also, all components of the structure must be tied
     positively together to establish an overall integrated resistance to high wind effects.
     11.4.17. New facilities and additions or extensions of existing facilities will be designed to
     provide the level of seismic protection required by TI 809-04, Seismic Design for Buildings
     and FEMA 302, NEHRP Recommended Provisions for Seismic Regulations for New
     Buildings and Other Structures
     11.4.18. Alteration, renovation, or improvement of existing facilities must include a seismic
     screening and evaluation as required by TI 809-05, Seismic Evaluation and Rehabilitation
     for Buildings. When found seismically deficient by evaluation, existing facilities must be
     upgraded to provide the level of seismic protection required by TM 5-809-10-2/AFMAN 32-
     1050(I), Seismic Design Guidelines for Upgrading Existing Buildings and FEMA 273,
     NEHRP Guidelines for the Seismic Rehabilitation of Buildings
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                   69


  11.4.19. Buildings will be designed with fire resistive features, within certain limits, such as
  structural stability to resist collapse in case of fire by protecting beams and columns,
  reducing surface to mass ratio of structural members, etc.; and fire containment to include
  such things as distance between buildings, fire resistant/treated materials, automatic fire
  sprinkler protection, fire walls/exits/doors, fire stops, etc.
  11.4.20. Roof overload alarm monitoring systems using modern technology early remote
  warning methods such as laser deflection sensors, smart wireless strain monitor sensors, etc.
  will be considered for optional installation on structural roof trusses/girders/beams/joists for
  “high risk” category buildings/structures and based on sound structural engineering analysis
  and economic cost/benefit studies.
70                                                          AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


                                            Chapter 12

                            ELECTRICAL SYSTEM STANDARDS

12.1. General: The purpose of this chapter is to familiarize the maintenance or design engineer
with AFSPC policy for the maintenance, repair, and/or installation of electrical systems in
AFSPC facilities.
     12.1.1. Applicability. AFSPC has established the following standards for electrical systems
     throughout the Command. These standards apply to mission critical and non-mission critical
     facilities at all AFSPC installations. The information contained within this guide pertains to
     the maintenance and repair of existing facilities and the construction of new facilities.
     12.1.2. Other Standards. The intent of this chapter is to provide AFSPC guidance above
     and beyond existing codes and regulations. For established standards it is suggested that you
     log onto the Air Force Departmental home page, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil and look
     in the 32 series “Civil Engineering” of the AF supplements to DOD publications.
     Additionally the latest addition of the National Electrical Code is an excellent source.
12.2. Interior/Exterior Electrical Facilities:
     12.2.1. Requirements for Conductors. All conductors shall be copper, except aluminum
     conductors of equivalent capacities may be used in place of copper conductors for sizes No. 4
     AWG copper and larger. Use of aluminum conductors in mission critical facilities,
     dormitories, housing and transient livings facilities is further limited to service entrance
     conductors only, sizes No 4 AWG copper and larger.
        12.2.1.1. Conductors No 6 AWG and larger shall have heat resistant insulation.
        12.2.1.2. Conductors for power and lighting branch circuits shall be No. 12 AWG
        minimum.
        12.2.1.3. Conductors must be properly terminated in accordance with the manufacturers
        recommended procedures.
     12.2.2. Wiring Methods. Wiring methods and materials shall be according to the National
     Electric Code (NEC) with the following exceptions and limitations. Exposed wiring in all
     areas except for industrial areas shall use Surface Metal Raceways and Surface Nonmetallic
     Raceways as described in Article 352 of the NEC. This applies not only to new construction
     but also to remodel work.
     12.2.3. Equipment Grounding Conductors. Types of equipment grounding conductors
     shall be as specified by the NEC and installed as required by the NEC. Additionally in
     mission critical facilities, dormitories, housing and transient living facilities all equipment
     grounding conductors shall be copper only.
     12.2.4. Lighting Systems and Luminance Values. Design interior and exterior lighting in
     accordance with the recommendations of the Illuminating Engineering Society (IES)
     Lighting Handbook, subject to the following modifications. The IES recommended
     minimum luminance values shall be maintained after considering all parameters that degrade
     light output, i. e. age, dust on reflectors etc. Consider lighting control systems in all
     applications to reduce overall energy consumption.
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                    71


   12.2.5. Exterior Electrical Facilities. Wherever possible existing overhead power lines
   should be installed underground, this includes new and existing lines. Priority should be
   given to areas where safety may be enhanced, schools, housing areas, etc.
12.3. Uninterruptible Power Supplies (UPS):
   12.3.1. Applicability. AFSPC has established the following standards for three phase
   Uninterruptible Power System (UPS) modules greater than 10 KVA. These standards apply
   to mission critical facilities with a Utility Reliability Requirement (URR) of .999, .9999 or
   .99999. The information contained in this guide pertains to maintenance and repair of
   existing facilities and the construction of new facilities.
   12.3.2. Configuration:
      12.3.2.1. Uninterruptible Power System. It is necessary for redundancy, that mission
      critical facilities with a URR of .99999 use a parallel redundant UPS configuration. This
      configuration electrically ties two or more UPS modules in parallel. Should one of the
      UPS modules in this configuration fail the remaining module(s) are capable of supporting
      the full rated load without interruption to the mission. Mission critical facilities with a
      URR of .9999 shall also use the parallel redundant configuration when practical or a
      parallel non-redundant configuration where the system will support the typical load if one
      of the UPS module(s) should fail. A reverse transfer (single UPS) configuration is
      suitable for other mission critical facilities.
      12.3.2.2. UPS Battery Strings. To eliminate single point failures in facilities with an
      URR as identified in AFSPCI 32-1010, Utility Outage and Incident Reporting Atch 1,
      parallel battery strings must be used. The capacity of the total battery (1-N strings) will
      be sized to support the full rated load for 15 minutes. This will allow sufficient time for a
      controlled critical equipment power-down or transition to back-up generator if available.
      If it is necessary that the mission be provided battery power in excess of 15 minutes,
      emergency back-up generation should be incorporated into the system.
   12.3.3. Ancillary Equipment
      12.3.3.1. Battery Management/Monitoring Systems. Battery management/monitoring
      systems will identify system anomalies and reduce man-hours associated with the
      maintenance of the battery strings. Along with monitoring performance data during
      discharge the battery monitoring system should, at a minimum also monitor, total system
      voltage, individual cell voltage, ambient temperature, and internal impedance/resistance
      (valve regulated batteries only).       A battery management/monitoring system is
      recommended in all UPS battery configurations.
      12.3.3.2. Remote Monitors. Whenever UPS modules cannot be directly monitored a
      remote monitoring system must be installed to provide operators immediate information
      on the condition of the UPS. The remote monitoring system shall provide the following
      information: System Normal, On-Battery and On-Bypass. If the system is configured
      with an auxiliary generator an On-Generator status indicator should be provided.
      12.3.3.3. Maintenance Bypass Switch Gear. It is necessary to install Maintenance
      Bypass Switchgear to facilitate maintenance and repair and reduce extended mission
      downtime. The installation of this switch allows a technician to electrically bypass the
72                                                        AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


        UPS from the load for maintenance and troubleshooting thereby avoiding frequent and
        extended breaks in power. When practical the Maintenance Bypass Switchgear should be
        of the Make-Before-Break type to further prevent interruptions in power. Maintenance
        Bypass Switchgear is recommended for all UPS configurations.
        12.3.3.4. Load Banks. To complete preventive/emergency maintenance on UPS
        modules a load bank should be made available to the technician performing the
        maintenance. The load bank must be rated a minimum of 105% of the rated load of the
        largest UPS module in the system. If the system UPS modules cannot be isolated for
        testing, the load bank must be sized for the total system load.
        12.3.3.5. Metering. New facilities may require advanced metering. During the design
        stage, coordinate with the responsible energy manager to ensure that appropriate metering
        is included.
     12.3.4. Maintenance Practices. Maintenance for UPS systems including the batteries is
     categorized into two levels: Operator and Technician. The operator level is responsible for
     proper operating procedures, immediate corrective actions, and all preventive maintenance
     inspections not provided for by the technician. The Technician level is responsible for
     annual, semi-annual, and quarterly (where appropriate) maintenance and inspection. The
     Technician level is also responsible for any other action beyond the operator level
     responsibilities as described in the appropriate manufactures’ operators and service manual.
     The using organization is responsible for ensuring that operators receive initial and
     reoccurring training and that technical support is available. The using organization is also
     responsible for having in place a scheduled maintenance program that includes all levels of
     maintenance IAW appropriate manufactures' manuals and Technical Orders.
     12.3.5. Records. Historical records shall include all documents associated with installation
     and activation of the UPS system i.e. Base-line performance data, initial settings of
     equipment etc. Also include historical records of past maintenance and corrective actions. A
     journal of summary information describing action taken, when, and by whom should be kept
     with the equipment. This information must be posted near each control panel and include a
     summary-of-alarms check sheet that describes what alarms were indicated before system was
     last reset. Accurate record keeping will greatly enhance a technician's ability to restore
     equipment to operating condition in the event of a failure.




                                             CARLOS R. CRUZ-GONZALEZ, Colonel, USAF
                                             Deputy Director for Installations
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                               73


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Government References
Architectural Barriers Act (ABA) Chapters 1 and 2 and Chapters 3 through 10 as its standards
(the “DoD Standards”) under ABA and also under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act,.23 July
2004
AFI 31-101, The Air Force Physical Security Program, 3/2003
AFH 32-1084, Facility Requirements, 1 Sep 1996
AFI 32-1032 Planning and Programming Appropriated Funded Maintenance and Repair, and
Construction Projects, 15 Oct 2003
AFI 32-1023, Design and Construction Standards and Execution of Facility Construction
Projects, 19July1994
AFI 32-1024, Standard Facility Requirements, 31 May 1994
AFI 32-1042, Standards for Marking Airfields, 27 Oct 2005
AFI 32-1051, Roof Systems Management, 13 May 1994
AFI 32-1054/AFSPC1, Corrosion Control, 1 March 2000
AFI 32-1061, Providing Utilities to US Air Force Installations, 15 March 2002
AFI 32-1062, Electrical Power Plants and Generators, 01 June 2005
AFI 32-1063, Electrical Power Systems, 10 June 2005
AFI 32-1065, Grounding Systems, 01 Oct 1998
AFI 32-1067, Water Systems, 25 March 1994
AFI 32-6002, Family Housing Planning, Programming, Design, and Construction, 15 Jan 2008
AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, 9 Oct 2008
AFI 32-7065, Cultural Resources Management Program, 1 Jun 2004
AFI 33-210, Air Force Certification and Accreditation Program ,23 Dec 2008
AFJPAM 32-1088,Bridge Inspection, Maintenance, and Repair, 1 Dec 1994
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 25 Mar1995
AFSPC Facilities Excellence Guide 2009 15 Aug 2009
AFSPCI 32-1001, Facilities Excellence Recognition Program, 15 Nov 2008
AFSPCI 32-1008, Facilities Board, 1 June 2005
DM 2.08, Blast Resistant Structures, 1 Dec 1986
ETL 03-1, Stormwater Construction Standards, 1 March 2003
ETL 03-8, Rejuvenation of Hot-Mix-Asphalt (HMA) Pavements, 1 Dec 2003
74                                                       AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


ETL 04-6, Inspection of Drainage Systems, 8 Jan 2004
ETL 04-9, Pavement Engineering Assessment Standards, 29 April 2004
ETL 04-07, Air Force Carpet Standard, 28 March 2007
FEMA 273, NEHRP Guidelines for the Seismic Rehabilitation of Buildings 1 Oct 1997
FEMA 302, NEHRP Recommended Provisions for Seismic Regulations for
New Buildings and Other Structures, 2 Jan 1997
MIL-HDBK-1190, Facility Planning and Design Guide, 1 Sept 1987
TI 800-01, Design Criteria, 20 July 1998
TI 800-01, Design Criteria (Chap. 4, Pavement Criteria), 18 Mar 2002
TM 5-600/AFJPAM 32-1088, Bridge Inspection, Maintenance and Repair, 6 Dec 1994
TM 5-610, Preventive Maintenance for Facilities Engineering, Buildings and Structures, 1 Nov
1979
TM 5-618, Paints and Protective Coatings, 15 June 1981
TM 5-620, Facilities Engineering Maintenance and Repair, of Architectural and Structural
Elements of Buildings and Structures, 10 May 1990
TM 5-624, Maintenance and Repair of Surface Areas, 27 Oct 1995
TM 5-820-1, Surface Drainage Design for Airfields and Heliports in Arctic and Subarctic
Regions, 1 Aug 1987
UFC 1-200-01 General Building Requirements, 27 Nov 2007
UFC 3-110-03 Roofing, 26 Sept 2006
UFC 3-110-04, Roofing Maintenance and Repair, 11 Jan 2007
UFC 3-120-01 Air Force Sign Standards, 6 Feb 2003
UFC 3-120-10, Interior Design, 1 July 2007
UFC 3-130-01, General Provisions Arctic and Subarctic Construction , 16 Jan 2004
UFC 3-130-03, Runway and Road Design - Arctic and Subarctic Construction , 16 Jan 2004
UFC 3-130-04, Foundations for Structures - Arctic and Subarctic Construction, 16 Jan 2004
UFC 3-130-07, Buildings Arctic and Subarctic Construction, 16 Jan 2004
UFC 3-190-01FA, Joint Sealing for Buildings, 17 Nov 2003
UFC 3-190-06 Protective Coatings and Paints, 16 Jan 2004
UFC 3-220-01A, Deep Foundations, 16 Jan 2004
UFC 3-220-03FA, Soils and Geology Procedures for Foundation Design of Buildings
and Other Structures (Except Hydraulic Structures), 16 Jan 2004
UFC 3-220-04FA, Backfill for Subsurface Structures, 16 Jan 2004
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                              75


UFC 3-220-08FA, , Engineering Use of Geotextiles, 16 Jan 2004
UFC 3-230-15FA, Surface Drainage Facilities for Airfields and Heliports, 16 Jan 2004
UFC 3-230-17FA, Drainage for Areas Other than Airfields, 16 Jan 2004
UFC 3-250-01FA, Pavement Design for Roads, Streets, Walks and Open Storage Areas, 16 Jan
2004
UFC 3-250-03, , Standard Practice for Concrete Pavements, 15 May 2001
UFC 3-250-06, Repair of Rigid Pavements Using Epoxy Resin Grouts, Mortars and Concretes,
16 Jan 2004
UFC 3-250-07, Standard Practice for Pavement Recycling, 16 Jan 2004
UFC 3-250-08FA, Standard Practice for Sealing Joints and Cracks Rigid and Flexible
Pavements, 16 Jan 2004
UFC 3-250-09FA, Aggregate Surfaced Roads and Airfields Areas, 16 Jan 2004
UFC 3-250-10F, Pavement Design for Roads, Streets, and Open Storage
Area, elastic Layered Methods , 16 Jan 2004
UFC 3-250-11, Soil Stabilization for Pavements, 16 Jan 2004
UFC 3-250-18FA, , General Provisions and Geometric Design for Roads, Streets,
Walks, and Open Storage Areas, 6 Jan 2006
UFC 3-310-01 Structural Lad Data, 25 May 2005
UFC 3-310-02A, Structural Design Criteria For Buildings, 1 Mar 2005
UFC 3-310-04 Seismic Design for Buildings, 15 Aug 2007
UFC 3-310-05A, Masonry Structural Design for Buildings, 1 March 2005
UFC 3-310-07A, Cold Formed Load Bearing Steel Systems and Masonry veneer/Steel Stud
Walls, 6/19/2006
UFC 3-320-01A, Welding – Design Procedures and Inspections, 1 March 2005
UFC 3-320-03A, Structural Considerations for Metal Roofing, 1 March 2005
UFC 3-320-04A, Metal Building Systems, 1 March 2005
UFC 3-320-05A, Structural Design Criteria for Structures Other than Buildings, 1 March 2005
UFC 3-320-06A, Concrete Floor Slabs on Grade Subjected to Heavy Loads, 1 March 2005
UFC 3-330-01A, Commentary on Snow Loads, 1 March 2005
UFC 3-330-02A, Commentary on Roofing Systems, 1 March 2005
UFC 3-330-03A, Seismic Review Procedures for Military Buildings, 1 March 2001
UFC 3-340-02, Structures to Resist the Effects of Accidental Explosions, 5 Dec 2008
UFC 3-600-01 Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities, 26 Sept 2006
UFC 4-010-01, ATFP Standards, 22 Jan 2007
76                                                        AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


UFC 4-020-01, DoD Security Engineering Facilities Planning Manual, 11 Sept 2008
UFC 4-020-02FA, Security Engineering: Concept Design (FOUO), 1 March 2005
UFC 4-020-03F, , Security Engineering Final Design(FOUO), 1 June 2005
UFC 3-260-03, Airfield Pavement Evaluation, 15 April 2001
UFC 3-110-04 Roofing Maintenance and Repair, 11 Jan 2007
UFC 4-022-0,1 Entry Control Facility Design Guide, 25 May 2005
USAF Interior Design Guides, 1 July 2002
USAF Sustainable Facilities Guide, 1 June 2002
USAF Unaccompanied Housing Design Guide, 2 Jan 2006
Industry References
American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) Publications
and Guidelines
American Concrete Institute (ACI), Building Code Requirements for Reinforced Concrete
American Concrete Pavement Association (ACPA) Publications
American Forest and Paper Association (AFPA), National Design Specifications for Wood
Construction
American Institute of Steel Construction (AISC), Specification for the Design, Fabrication and
Erection of Structural Steel for Buildings
American Institute of Timber Construction (AITC), Manual of Timber Construction
American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI), Design of Cold Formed Steel Structural Members
American Plywood Association (APA) – Engineered Wood Association, Plywood Design
Specification
American Public Works Association (APWA) Publications
American Road and Transportation Builders Association (ARTBA) Publications
American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), Structural Steel Specifications and
Connections
American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) Publications
American Society of Civil Engineers, ASCE 7, Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other
Structures
American Society of Highway Engineers (ASHE) Publications
American Welding Society (AWS), Structural Welding Code
American with Disability Act Accessibility Guidelines (ADAAG)
Asphalt Emulsion Manufacturers Association (AEMA) Publications and Brochures
Asphalt Institute (AI) Publications and Guidelines
AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009                                                                  77


Asphalt Recycling and Reclaiming Association (ARRA) Publications
Asphalt Roofing Manufacturers Association (ARMA), Manual of Roof Maintenance and Roof
Repair
Building Commissioning Association www.BCXA.com
Building Officials and Code Administrators (BOCA), National Building Code
EIS Lighting Handbook
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) Publications, User Guidelines for Waste and
Byproduct Materials in Pavement Construction, Pavement Recycling Guidelines for State and
Local Governments
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
(MUTCD)
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), State Local Technical Assistance Programs (LTAP)
Guidelines
Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Publications
International Code Council (ICC)
International Building Code (IBC)
International Congress of Building Officials (ICBO)
Uniform Building Code (UBC)
Metal Building Manufacturers Association (MBMA), Low Rise Buildings Systems Manual
Metal Building Manufacturers Association (MBMA), Metal Roofing Systems Manual
National Asphalt Pavement Association (NAPA) Publications
National Association of Corrosion Engineers (NACE) Publications and Standards
National Association of Corrosion Engineers (NACE) Publications, Corrosion Handbook
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Code
National Forest Products Association (NFPA), National Design Specifications for Stress Grade
Lumber and it’s Fastenings
National Roofing Contractor Association (NRCA), Roofing and Waterproofing Manual
Portland Cement Association (PCA) Publications
Portland Cement Association (PCA), Slab Thickness Design for Industrial Concrete Floors on
Grade
Post-Tensioning Institute (PTI), Design and construction of Post-Tensioning Slabs-on-Ground
Prestressed Concrete Institute (PCI), Design Handbook and Manuals
Roofing Industry Educational Institute (RIEI) Publications and Manuals
Rubber Pavements Association (RPA) Publications
78                                                        AFSPCH32-1004 15 AUGUST 2009


Sheet Metal and Air Conditioning Contractor’s National Association (SMACCNA), Architectural
Sheetmetal Manual
Single Ply Roofing Institute (SPRI), Single Ply Roofing: A Professional’s Guide to Specifications
Steel Joist Institute (SJI), Standard Specifications and Load Tables, Open Web Steel Joists and
Longspan Steel Joists, and Similar Publications
The Society for Protective Coatings (SSPC) Publications

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADA— American with Disabilities Act
ADAAG— American with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines
Aluminum Association (AA)—Specifications for Aluminum Structures
