BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND MISSION
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                          DIRECTIVE 5-220

                                                                        10 OCTOBER 2013

                                                           Organization and Mission – Field

                                                    688TH CYBERSPACE WING (688 CW)

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releaseability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFSPC/A3OP                                              Certified by: HQ AFSPC/A3
                                                           (Brigadier General David J. Buck)
                                                                                    Pages: 6


This mission directive (MD) implements policy and guidance in Air Force Policy Directive
(AFPD) 10-1, Mission Directives, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-101, Format and Content of
Mission Directives, AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW)
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. AFSPC groups and squadrons cannot supplement this document without prior
approval of the HQ AFSPC/A3. Upon mobilization, this mission directive also applies to
AFSPC-gained Air National Guard (ANG) units and members under USC Title 10 status. In
addition, it applies to all AFSPC-gained Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and
members.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is a new document and must be completely reviewed. This document supersedes specific
paragraphs outlined within the Memorandum Of Agreement (MOA) on AFSPC Information
Operations (IO) Support to Air Combat Command (ACC): 4.2.1.2 – 4.2.1.2.1.6, 5.6.2, and 5.9 -
5.11.5.
1. Mission. The 688 CW delivers innovative Information Operations (IO) and
system/infrastructure engineering and integration capabilities across the air, space and
cyberspace domains.
 2                                                        AFSPCMD5-220 10 OCTOBER 2013


2. Command. The Commander, 688 CW:
     2.1. Reports to and operates under the policy and guidance of the 24th Air Force.
     2.2. Commands the forces of the 688 CW, Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas.
     The Wing is composed of two groups: the 318th Cyberspace Operations Group (318 COG),
     Lackland AFB, San Antonio, Texas and the 38th Cyberspace Engineering Installation Group
     (38 CEIG), Tinker AFB, Oklahoma City, OK. The 688 CW/CC oversees the Wing support
     staff.
     2.3. Works with HQ ACC/A3I and A8I to enhance AF IO programs. HQ ACC/A3I and A8I
     are authorized Direct Liaison Authority (DIRLAUTH) to coordinate IO education
     development, support, tactics, concept development, analysis and assessment with
     appropriate elements of 688 CW.
3. Responsibilities. The Commander, 688 CW:
     3.1. Explores new technologies, conducts developmental and operational testing and
     evaluations, creates Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTP) and trains the next generation
     of Information Operations (IO), Military Information Support Operations (MISO), Military
     Deception (MILDEC), Operations Security (OPSEC) and cyber warriors.
     3.2. Develops and coordinates all IO, MISO, MILDEC and OPSEC Task Training Lists
     (TTL) and training Syllabi; TTP development; exercise support; and reachback support
     requirements with ACC/A3.
     3.3. Equips and supports cyber warriors through real-time innovation, integration and
     transition of technological IO solutions to the USAF.
     3.4. Coordinates with the Air Force Life Cycle Management Center’s Cyber Solutions Cell
     to provide guidance and assistance on defining needs and to develop Cyber Acquisition
     Courses of Action.
     3.5. Exercises “associate unit” responsibilities with designated reserve component units.
     3.6. Develops IO, MISO, MILDEC, OPSEC and cyber tactics for Joint and AF Operational
     planners in support of current and future operations.
        3.6.1. Plans and participates in AF and joint exercises for the purpose of capturing and
        evaluating IO, MISO, MILDEC, OPSEC and cyber TTPs.
        3.6.2. Plans and participates in AF exercises and operations involving information-
        related capabilities (IRC).
     3.7. Tests and evaluates emerging IO, MISO, MILDEC, OPSEC and offensive and defensive
     network capabilities for operational forces, national agencies and the acquisition community.
     3.8. Maintains, evolves and operates cyber test ranges and assets to support exercise, test,
     training and mission rehearsal events.
     3.9. Performs TEMPEST and specialized testing of facilities, communications links,
     computer networks and aircraft in support of the AF Emissions Security (EMSEC) Program.
     3.10. Performs Communications Security (COMSEC) assessments in accordance with the
     Committee on National Security Systems Instruction 4005; performs account management
AFSPCMD5-220 10 OCTOBER 2013                                                                   3


  controlling access to AF cryptographic material and manages AF COMSEC Incident
  program.
  3.11. Operates the Air Force IO and cyber formal training unit providing Airmen with
  technical, tactical and operational skills required to plan missions and operate USAF IO,
  MISO, MILDEC, OPSEC and offensive and defensive network capabilities for operational
  forces, national agencies, and the acquisition community.
  3.12. Executes defensive counter cyberspace missions on AF and DoD networks and
  systems in defense of core AF functions and to ensure critical DoD missions.
  3.13. Executes vulnerability assessments on AF and DoD networks and systems in order to
  ensure appropriate integrity, security and network defense posture is enforced.
  3.14. Advances USAF IO, MISO, MILDEC and OPSEC capabilities in collaboration with
  U.S. Government agencies in the National Capitol Region.
  3.15. Integrates IO, MISO, MILDEC and OPSEC capabilities planning and execution into
  the Combat Air Forces’ training at the operational and tactical levels.
  3.16. Provides support to IO, MISO, MILDEC, OPSEC and cyber operational-level planning
  and assessment conducted by C-NAF/C-MAJCOMs.
  3.17. Plans, engineers and delivers survivable and resilient command, control,
  communications and computer (C4) infrastructure to establish the cyberspace domain and
  enable offensive and defensive air, space and cyberspace operations worldwide; provides
  these services worldwide across the full range of military operations supporting DoD, Joint
  and AF operations.
     3.17.1. Plans, engineers and delivers a survivable and resilient infrastructure to establish
     the cyberspace domain and enable the AF to conduct netcentric offensive and defensive
     air, space and cyberspace operations.
     3.17.2. Provide special mission teams to increase the resiliency and defensive posture of
     AF mission networks. Deploys cyber system integrators throughout CONUS and area of
     responsibility (AOR) bases to assess mission network capability and vulnerability
     shortfalls, design solutions and to be involved in their implementation.
  3.18. Provides program management for centralized implantation of C4
  requirements/projects including the management and oversight of active/Air National Guard
  military and contract implantation resources as Chair of the Air Force Engineering and
  Installation Total Force Group.
  3.19. Provides specialized contracting capabilities in support of the Wing’s worldwide
  Engineering and Installation (E&I) mission and 24 AF mission-related requirements.
     3.19.1. Awards and administers contracting vehicles for AF-wide C4 project
     implementations.
     3.19.2. Provides contractual coverage for all local telephone service across the CONUS
     and for E&I service contracts implementing a variety of 38 CEIG managed projects.
     3.19.3. Awards and administers services contracts to support 24 AF mission-related
     operational needs, including technical and cyber operations security and support services.
4                                                       AFSPCMD5-220 10 OCTOBER 2013


    3.20. Provides legal advice, consultation and review on issues involving state public utility
    commission and Federal Communication Commission requirements/regulations and Federal
    Acquisition Regulation/Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement.
    3.21. Manages and sustains cyberspace infrastructure capabilities. Coordinates with HQ
    AFSPC and acquisitions community to develop new capabilities for the Cyberspace
    Infrastructure Planning System.
    3.22. Provides and maintains mobile electromagnetic (radio frequency - RF) and
    telecommunications specialized engineering services.
       3.22.1. Supports specialized High Altitude Electromagnetic Pulse testing capabilities.
       3.22.2. Maintains rapidly deployable (within 72 hours) Radio Direction Finding and
       Frequency Analysis capabilities to meet AF and Combatant Commander (CCDR)
       requirements.
       3.22.3. Provides specialized Electromagnetics Radiation Hazard survey capabilities.
       3.22.4. Provides specialized       electromagnetic    (radio   frequency)     interference
       characterization and analysis.
       3.22.5. Troubleshoots and develops solutions for network and circuit performance issues.
       3.22.6. Tests and evaluates facility power, grounding and lightning protection systems.
    3.23. Maintains a rapidly deployable (within 72 hours) E&I capability to meet AF and
    CCDR contingency requirements.
    3.24. Provides organic E & I project engineering and installation services including fiber
    optic and copper cable, network equipment, communication towers, antenna, radio, radar and
    airfield systems.
    3.25. Performs network health and vulnerability assessments, remediation, optimization
    assistance and event-driven response actions through Scope EDGE and other special mission
    teams.
    3.26. Provides the primary Air Force interface for AF Defense Information Services
    Network (DISN) and non-DISN long haul communications services requirements,
    provisioning, budgeting and management.
    3.27. Provides consolidated AF systems management and logistics support for AF common
    communications systems, including network, voice, radio frequency, transmission, cable,
    antenna and personal wireless communications systems.
    3.28. Develops, resources and sustains 688 CW plans, programs and manpower to satisfy
    warfighter requirements. Provides underlying mission support functions to optimize Wing
    operations.
AFSPCMD5-220 10 OCTOBER 2013                                                          5



  3.29. Provides financial and human resource management advice used to deliver optimum,
  affordable cyberspace engineering and installation warfighting capabilities.




                                       WILLIAM L. SHELTON, General, USAF
                                       Commander
 6                                                    AFSPCMD5-220 10 OCTOBER 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives, 21 June 2002
AFI 10-101, Format and Content of Mission Directives, 12 February 2003
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 March 2011
Memorandum of Agreement On AFSPC IO Support To ACC, 14 Jun 13
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFFOR—Air Force Forces
AOR—Area of Responsibility
C4—Command, Control, Communications and Computers
CEIG—Cyberspace Engineering Installation Group
CCDR—Combatant Commander
COG—Cyberspace Operations Group
CONUS—Continental United States
CSI—Cyberspace Systems Integrator
CW—Cyberspace Wing
DISN—Defense Information Services Network
DoD—Department of Defense
E & I—Engineering and Installation
EMSEC—Emissions Security
IO—Information Operations
IRC—Information-Related Capabilities
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Numbered Air Force
RF—Radio Frequency
TTP—Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
