BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                           INSTRUCTION 10-1203

                                                                        27 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                                   Operations

                                                  SPACE RANGE REVIEW BOARD (SRRB)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or
               ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFSPC/A3DR                                                     Certified by: AFSPC/A3D
                                                                    (Mr. Robert D. Davidson)
Supersedes:   AFSPCI 10-1203, 15                                                     Pages: 7
              September 2008


This instruction defines the Space Range Review Board as Air Force Space Command’s process
for semi-annual review of the Space Test and Training Range (STTR) schedule and
programmatic issues. This instruction applies to HQ AFSPC, its Numbered Air Forces (NAF)
and their assigned wings or directorates. It also applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC),
Air National Guard (ANG), and any other agency who may intend to use the STTR. The STTR
Range Operating Authority (ROA) will supplement this instruction with an STTR instruction
outlining STTR scheduling processes and coordinate drafts with HQ AFSPC/A3DR. Other
organizations at any level may supplement this instruction, as required, and coordinate drafts
with HQ AFSPC/A3DR. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)          Records        Disposition         Schedule         (RDS)       located   at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include the
assignment of management functions to lower levels to streamline processes; adds HQ
AFRC/A3, Director of Air Space and Information Operations to oversee the interests of Reserve
 2                                                         AFSPCI10-1203 20 DECEMBER 2011


Forces; the 595 SG/CC now organizes the Working Groups as identified in paragraph 3.4.;
Scheduling Priorities have been redefined in paragraph 4.5.; Limited Access customer
requirements have been clarified in paragraph 5.
1. General.
     1.1. The purpose of the Space Range Review Board (SRRB) is to provide a forum for key
     Space Test and Training Range (STTR) stake holders to review the Range Operating
     Authority (ROA)-approved STTR schedule and to discuss programmatic requirements and
     Organize, Train, and Equip (OT&E) issues related to the STTR. The SRRB provides senior
     leadership insight into range use and customer requests. The SRRB also provides a means
     for HQ AFSPC to understand customer requirements in order to better meet future customer
     needs.
     1.2. The SRRB is cochaired by the 595 SG/CC and HQ AFSPC/A3D, and is usually
     convened in January and July of each year. HQ AFSPC/A3DR hosts the SRRB the 25 SRS
     hosts Working Group(s) as necessary prior to each SRRB. The Working Group is co-chaired
     by HQ AFSPC/A3DR and the STTR Range Operations Officer (ROO).
2. SRRB Membership.
     2.1. Board – consists of AFSPC/A3D, AFSPC/A3T, AFSPC/A5D, 595 SG/CC, 14 AF/A3,
     SMC/SY and SMDC/ARSTRAT. The board reviews the Range Operating Authority (ROA)-
     approved STTR schedule to gain insight into STTR usage, infrastructure requirements and
     limiting factors, and other OT&E issues related to the STTR. Additional advisors may be
     invited to the board if conflicts exist with their respective range requests, or there are special
     topics which may require their inputs.
     2.2. Working Group – consists of AFSPC/A3DR, AFSPC/A3TT, AFSPC/A3TX,
     AFSPC/A3TO, AFSPC/A5D, 25 SRS/CC, SMDC/ARSTRAT and 14 AF/A3Q. The working
     group is responsible for reviewing the initial manifest produced by the 25 SRS and vetting
     programmatic, OT&E issues, and special topics in preparation for the SRRB. Additional
     advisors may be invited to the working group if conflicts exist with their respective range
     requests. The Range Operations Officer (ROO) will invite other users to the working
     group(s) as required to work scheduling issues.
     2.3. Users – consist of organizations that may require services of the STTR. User requests
     for STTR range time are supported as STTR resources permit based on HQ AFSPC/A3
     scheduling priorities.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. HQ AFSPC Director of Air, Space and Cyberspace Operations (HQ AFSPC/A3).
        3.1.1. Establishes STTR scheduling priorities (outlined in paragraph 4.5).
        3.1.2. Ensures AFSPC range requirements (funds and manpower) are accounted for in
        the planning, programming and budgeting cycle.
     3.2. HQ AFRC Director Air Space & Information Operations (HQ AFRC/A3).
        3.2.1. Ensures AFRC reserve associate unit range requirements (funds and manpower)
        are accounted for in the planning, programming and budgeting cycle.
AFSPCI10-1203 20 DECEMBER 2011                                                               3


  3.3. HQ AFSPC Space Protection and Information Operations Division (HQ AFSPC/A3D).
     3.3.1. Co-chairs the SRRB.
     3.3.2. Prepares the semi-annual SRRB meeting agenda, notifies participants, hosts the
     meeting and publishes meeting minutes. Coordinates meeting agenda with STTR ROA.
     3.3.3. Captures customer requirements shortfalls for inclusion into range capabilities
     upgrades.
     3.3.4. Approves AFSPC input to the Air Staff Counterspace Activity Master Schedule
     (CAMS).
  3.4. STTR Range Operating Authority (595 SG/CC).
     3.4.1. Co-chairs the SRRB.
     3.4.2. Initiates the semi-annual range call.
     3.4.3. Schedules all range request inputs to ensure the most efficient use of STTR
     resources.
     3.4.4. Prepares the Working Group agenda(s), notifies participants, hosts the meeting
     and publishes meeting minutes. Coordinates working group agenda’s with HQ
     AFSPC/A3DR.
     3.4.5. Approves all routine and coordinates out-of-cycle range requests.
     3.4.6. Approves the STTR schedule and presents it at the semi-annual SRRB.
     3.4.7. Provides range and resource status, including range down time and any applicable
     funding considerations.
     3.4.8. Ensures        the      STTR        SIPRnet      website          is     available:
     http://eis.afspc.af.smil.mil/unit/sidc/595SG/25 SRS/default.aspx
  3.5. HQ AFSPC Director of Training, Testing, Exercises, and Evaluations (HQ
  AFSPC/A3T) and HQ AFRC Chief, Training and Tactics Division (HQ AFRC/A3T).
     3.5.1. Serves as members of the SRRB as appropriate.
     3.5.2. Responsible for submitting STTR requests for A3T-sponsored test, training, and
     exercise activities involving active AF or ART/AGR reserve components.
  3.6. HQ AFSPC/A3TT/A3TO/A3TX.
     3.6.1. Serves as members of the SRRB Working Group.
     3.6.2. Reviews the initial manifest produced by the 25 SRS for test, training and exercise
     activities.
  3.7. HQ AFSPC Director of Requirements (HQ AFSPC/A5).
     3.7.1. Identifies specific range needs to support developmental activities.
     3.7.2. Provides command-approved STTR capability requirements for all programs
     initiated by AFSPC/A5 and tested by AFSPC or AFOTEC.
4                                                       AFSPCI10-1203 20 DECEMBER 2011


       3.7.3. Ensures funds and resources (manpower) for testing are available for acquisition
       and modification programs.
       3.7.4. Ensures AFSPC non-STTR programs include and identify appropriate test and
       training resources required by the STTR using the Universal Documentation System
       (UDS).
    3.8. HQ AFSPC Space Protection and Information Operations Requirements Division
    (HQ AFSPC/A5D).
       3.8.1. Serves as a member of the SRRB and SRRB Working Group.
       3.8.2. Develops requirements for range acquisition roadmap.
       3.8.3. Develops requirements IAW A3D provided customer requirements shortfalls for
       inclusion into range capabilities upgrades.
    3.9. 14th Air Force Operations and Exercises Directorate (14 AF/A3).
       3.9.1. Serves as a member of the SRRB.
       3.9.2. Advocates specific test and training needs for subordinate units.
       3.9.3. Directs appropriate operational units and personnel to comply with established
       range control policies while operating systems under test or training on the STTR.
       3.9.4. Identifies long range training requirements using the STTR Universal
       Documentation System.
    3.10. 14th Air Force Special Missions Division (14 AF/A3Q).
       3.10.1. Serves as a member of the SRRB Working Group.
       3.10.2. Reviews the initial manifest produced by the 25 SRS for specific test, training
       and exercise activities.
    3.11. Space Superiority Systems Directorate (SMC/SY).
       3.11.1. Serves as a member of the SRRB.
       3.11.2. Identifies specific developmental test needs requiring range use.
       3.11.3. Directs appropriate subordinate units and personnel to comply with established
       range control policies while operating systems under test or training on the STTR.
       3.11.4. Works with AFSPC A3/A5 to provide material solutions, if needed, to identify
       STTR operational requirements.
       3.11.5. Identifies long range test requirements supporting acquisition programs of record
       using the STTR Universal Documentation System.
    3.12. STTR Range Operations Officer (25 SRS/CC).
       3.12.1. Presents the STTR manifest to the Working Group(s) to identify issues of
       concern.
       3.12.2. Consolidates range requests, prepares the STTR manifest and presents it to the
       STTR ROA for approval.
AFSPCI10-1203 20 DECEMBER 2011                                                                    5


      3.12.3. Responsible for daily range operations/activities IAW AFI 13-212, AFSPC Sup
      1, Range Planning and Operations.
      3.12.4. Responsible for executing and managing the tactical schedule on behalf of the
      ROA.
      3.12.5. Responsible for maintaining and updating the STTR schedule on the STTR
      SIPRnet website: http://eis.afspc.af.smil.mil/unit/sidc/595SG/25 SRS/default.aspx by
      the last day of the month.
   3.13. SMDC/ARSTRAT.
      3.13.1. Serves as a member of the SRRB and SRRB Working Group.
      3.13.2. Advocates specific test and training needs for subordinate units.
      3.13.3. Identifies training and exercise activities and specific long range developmental
      testing requirements using the STTR Universal Documentation System.
4. STTR Scheduling Process.
   4.1. The STTR ROO will prepare the STTR manifest and schedule in accordance with this
   instruction. As part of its scheduling process, the ROA will conduct a semi-annual Range
   Call during the months of May and November enroute to publishing an ROA-approved
   schedule by January and July of each calendar year. The Range Call will be sent to a broad
   audience of past, current and prospective range users and will solicit requests for range use
   projected over the subsequent two years.
   4.2. Range calls will request users to forecast a 24month outlook for scheduling purposes.
   Users are also encouraged to submit requests for known or projected events beyond the
   24months range call period.
   4.3. Requests for range support with requested dates that are within the ROA-approved
   tactical schedule period will be scheduled using the out-of-cycle STTR scheduling process.
   Requests for range support with requested dates that are received outside the tactical
   schedule will be handled during the next SRRB cycle.
      4.3.1. The STTR ROA will develop an out-of-cycle scheduling request process and
      publish it in an STTR instruction. The out-of-cycle process will be posted on the STTR
      website.
      4.3.2. The ROO will update the schedule changes resulting from approved out-of-cycle
      requests and will publish these changes to the STTR SIPRnet website.
   4.4. The ROA will schedule range events using the following command prioritization in a
   top-to-bottom ranking of each activity using a measure of merit system. Each activity’s
   measure of merit is based on mission impact, time sensitivity, direction, authority, and
   program risk: It is imperative for users to justify category of priority in their event requests.
   4.5. Scheduling Priorities:
      4.5.1. HQ AFSPC/CC Directed Activities
      4.5.2. Combatant Commander Support
          4.5.2.1. Deployment Certification
 6                                                       AFSPCI10-1203 20 DECEMBER 2011


            4.5.2.2. Tests in support of Joint Urgent Operational Needs (JUONs)
        4.5.3. Training, tests, exercises, and demonstrations
            4.5.3.1. HQ AFSPC/A3 Directed Activities
            4.5.3.2. Unit Proficiency Training
            4.5.3.3. System Testing
            4.5.3.4. Exercise Support
            4.5.3.5. Demonstration
        4.5.4. Other activities not listed above.
     4.6. Limited Access requirements for STTR activities should include, in writing, a generic
     request for “Limited Access”. These events can be addressed in a special breakout session of
     the SRRB or in parallel with Range Calls, SRRB Working Groups, and SRRBs. (See
     paragraph 5 for additional information.)
     4.7. The STTR ROO will consolidate all range requests received by the deadline established
     in the range call, draft the initial manifest and present it for review by the SRRB Working
     Group.
     4.8. The 25 SRS will convene the first SRRB Working Group approximately six weeks prior
     to the SRRB and the second SRRB Working Group approximately two weeks prior to the
     SRRB.
        4.8.1. If there are any unresolved conflicts on the manifest following the SRRB Working
        Group, the STTR ROA may solicit additional information from affected SRRB members
        or advisors for resolution prior to finalizing the schedule.
     4.9. Following the SRRB Working Group, the STTR ROO will submit the space range
     manifest to the ROA for approval. Once approved, the STTR manifest becomes the STTR
     schedule.
     4.10. AFSPC/A3D will utilize the ROA-approved STTR schedule as the key part of
     AFSPC’s input into the Counterspace Activity Master Schedule. There may be certain
     activities that do not require the 25 SRS, and thus would not be reflected on the STTR
     schedule but may be on the Counterspace Activity Master Schedule (CAMS).
5. Minimum Accesses to Support Limited Access Customers.
     5.1. In order for the STTR to adequately support Limited Access customers, there exist two
     categories of personnel required to be briefed on such event; AFSPC leadership and STTR
     positions supporting the event.
        5.1.1. AFSPC Leadership: To facilitate decision making and to provide effective
        oversight with respect to all range events, the customer must provide sufficient billets for
        Headquarters and SIDC leadership.
        5.1.2. STTR Positions: Based on real-world experience, previous lessons learned, and
        depending on the type and duration of customer support required, the 25 SRS requires a
        minimum of one security and two planning personnel for initial operational assessment.
        The initial cleared personnel will determine supportability of the event and then negotiate
AFSPCI10-1203 20 DECEMBER 2011                                                            7


     with the customer to identify the appropriate number of additional billets needed to
     support the event. Failure to meet this requirement will hinder the 25 SRS’s ability to
     support the Limited Access event.
        5.1.2.1. Limited Access customers are encouraged to make contact early with 25
        SRS personnel to ensure proper coordination and understanding of customer
        requirements.




                                         DAVID D. THOMPSON, Brigadier General, USAF
                                         Director of Air, Space and Cyberspace Operations
