BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                                         INSTRUCTION 51-4
                                                                                       1 FEBRUARY 2001

                                                                                                        Law

                                                                             OFF-DUTY EMPLOYMENT


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.



OPR: JAQ (Lt Col Mark R. Land)                                    Certified by: JA (Lt Col Mark R. Land)
                                                                                                 Pages: 3
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction implements DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation (JER). It establishes internal
agency requirements and procedures for processing requests for approval of off-duty employment
required by sections 2-206a and 3-306a of DoD 5500.7-R, JER, authorized by DoD Directive 5500.7,
Standards of Conduct. This instruction also implements the directive that agency designees, command-
ers, heads of organizations, and supervisors exercise the authority expressly granted by sections 2-303 and
3-306e of DoD 5500.7-R to require DoD employees under their jurisdiction to report any off-duty
employment prior to engaging in such employment, and to prohibit off-duty employment that is prohib-
ited by statute or regulation, will detract from readiness or pose a security risk. All military and civilian
personnel assigned to Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) who seek to engage in off-duty employment
are required to submit an AF Form 3902, Application and Approval for Off-Duty Employment. This is
a punitive instruction; military and civilian personnel who fail to comply with paragraphs 1.3., 1.4., and
1.5. of this instruction subject themselves to disciplinary action. This instruction applies to Air National
Guard and US Air Force Reserve members when in active duty or full-time National Guard duty (AGR)
under Title 32 U.S.C. Section 502(f).



1. Off-Duty Employment:
   1.1. AFSPC personnel, both military and civilian, must not engage in off-duty employment that:
       1.1.1. Is prohibited by statute or regulation;
       1.1.2. Would detract from readiness; or
       1.1.3. Would pose a security risk.
   1.2. Explanation of Terms:
       1.2.1. Off-Duty Employment. business activities and compensated outside employment, includ-
       ing self-employment. Examples of self-employment include the sale of insurance, stocks, mutual
       funds, real estate, cosmetics, household supplies, vitamins, and other goods or services.
2                                                                     AFSPCI51-4 1 FEBRUARY 2001

       1.2.2. Readiness: Includes the ability of the Air Force to perform its mission in the manner and at
       the time and place required, and the ability of a military member or civilian employee to perform
       his or her government duties in the manner and at the time and place required free of any improper
       conflicts of interest.
    1.3. All civilian and military personnel who intend to seek off-duty employment, including employ-
    ment while on terminal leave, shall submit an AF Form 3902 to their first-level supervisor at least 2
    weeks before beginning employment (except in cases where 2 weeks notice is not possible). Final
    approval must be obtained prior to starting off-duty employment. Medical service personnel must
    comply with the requirements regarding off-duty employment in AFI 44-102, Community Health
    Management, in addition to the requirements of this instruction. Judge Advocate personnel must
    comply with the requirements regarding off-duty employment in Judge Advocate General of the Air
    Force Policy Letter Number 14.
    1.4. Personnel who have not obtained prior approval and who are, on the effective date of this instruc-
    tion, already engaged in off-duty employment, shall have 90 days from that date to obtain such
    approval. If they do not seek approval or are disapproved, they must terminate their employment.
    1.5. A new AF Form 3902 must be submitted whenever the type of employment or the employer
    changes, the individual’s Air Force duties change significantly, or the number of regularly scheduled
    off-duty hours increases. Occasional increases in hours due to situations such as the availability of
    overtime work, or the need to fill in for an absent coworker, do not require resubmission of the AF
    Form 3902. Previously denied requests may be resubmitted after a change in the individual’s Air
    Force duties.
    1.6. Military personnel who fail to comply with paragraphs 1.3., 1.4., 1.5. of this instruction violate a
    lawful general order that may result in appropriate disciplinary action or criminal liability under Arti-
    cle 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Air Force civilian employees who violate this instruc-
    tion by failing to comply with its filing requirements are subject to appropriate disciplinary action
    IAW AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions.

2. Procedures for Completing AF Form 3902:
    2.1. The member/employee completes Section I.
    2.2. The member’s/employee's immediate supervisor completes Section II.
    2.3. In cases where the member/employee is required to file a SF 278, Public Financial Disclosure
    Report, or an OGE Form 450, Confidential Financial Disclosure Report, or where the off-duty
    employment will be with a "prohibited source" as defined in the JER, DoD 5500.7-R, (which includes
    any person or company that does business or seeks to do business with the DoD, regardless of the dol-
    lar amount of the contract or purchase), the Wing or Organization JA shall complete Section III. In
    other cases, JA review is not required unless requested by the employee's immediate supervisor or by
    the person completing Section IV of the AF Form 3902.
    2.4. Section IV is completed by the unit commander or the first person in the member’s/employee's
    chain of command or supervision who is a commissioned military officer or a civilian GS-12/WS-14
    or above, and who supervises the member’s/employee's immediate supervisor. However, if the
    employee's immediate supervisor is a General Officer, SES member, SES-equivalent employee (e.g.
    ST, SL), or Wing Commander (or equivalent), then the immediate supervisor also completes Section
    IV. The individuals specified in this paragraph (other than Unit Commanders) are considered to be
AFSPCI51-4 1 FEBRUARY 2001                                                                            3

  Delegates of Unit Commanders, for purposes of completing Section IV of the AF Form 3902 and are
  authorized to complete Section IV of the AF Form 3902.
  2.5. Filing AF Form 3902 . After a request is approved or disapproved, the original request will be
  maintained in the individual’s personal information file or civilian employee work file and maintained
  in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule, Table 36-1, Rules 6 & 7.



                                       JARISSE J. SANBORN, Col, USAF
                                       Staff Judge Advocate
