BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                                 INSTRUCTION 10-140

                                                                               23 AUGUST 2012
                                                        Incorporating Change 1, 21 AUGUST 2013

                                                                                          Operations

                                                                     SATELLITE FUNCTIONAL
                                                                     AVAILABILITY PLANNING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFSPC/A3S                                                     Certified by: HQ AFSPC/A3S
                                                                          (Mr. Joseph M. Gambrell)
                                                                                         Pages: 14
Supersedes:    AFSPCI 10-140,
               14 October 2009


This instruction implements AFI 10-1201, Space Operations. The publication outlines tasks and
responsibilities pertaining to satellite constellation mission requirements, functional success
criteria, functional availability, reliability parameter lists, Functional Availability Reports (FAR),
planning, acquisitions, and operations. This instruction applies to Headquarters, Air Force Space
Command (HQ AFSPC), Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC), 14th Air Force (Air Forces
Strategic-Space) [14 AF (AFSTRAT)], subordinate units, and supporting agencies.                   This
instruction applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG). This
instruction does not apply to efforts that are strictly research and development oriented, such as
demonstrations or prototypes, or programs conducted for experimental or scientific research
purposes, unless designated by the Service Lead. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Organizations at any level may supplement this
instruction. Supplements will not lessen the requirements nor change the basic content or intent
of this instruction. Process supplements as required in AFI 33-360. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                             AFSPCI10-140 23 AUGUST 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change aligns Functional Availability Report (FAR) development with the Planning,
Programming, Budgeting and Execution (PPBE) process to include changing parameter and FAR
production requirements. A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.
1. General. This instruction implements standards for assessing and reporting AFSPC mission
areas. Reference Attachment 1 for a list of abbreviations, acronyms, and definitions.
     1.1. Purpose. Operational assessments and reports provide valid and consistent information
     to aid decision makers at all levels in determining satellite replenishment strategy, launch
     schedule planning and future system acquisition.
     1.2. Mission Areas. For the purpose of this instruction, a mission area is the existing or
     future capability provided by one or more satellite constellations. These mission areas can be
     composed of existing or future satellite constellations and may include satellite assets owned
     by agencies outside AFSPC that share responsibility for fulfilling mission area requirements.
     The current AFSPC mission areas are: Positioning Navigation and Timing (PNT), Missile
     Warning (strategic and theater), Missile Defense (strategic and theater), Technical
     Intelligence, Battlespace Awareness, Environmental Monitoring, Nuclear Detonation
     (NUDET) Detection, Protected Communications, and Wideband Communications.                    A
     complete functional availability assessment of a mission area includes an assessment of the
     space, launch, control and appropriate user segments pertaining to functional availability. HQ
     AFSPC will model mission area capabilities based on warfighter and/or user requirements.
2. esponsibilities:
     2.1. Director of Air, Space and Cyberspace Operations (HQ AFSPC/A3) will:
        2.1.1. Function as the Service Lead for designated mission areas within the satellite
        functional availability process. Figure 2.1 illustrates the satellite functional availability
        process.
AFSPCI10-140 23 AUGUST 2012                                                                       3


Figure 2.1. Satellite Functional Availability Process




       2.1.2. Ensure unassigned/future missions are identified in this instruction and appropriate
       notifications are made to external agencies, as required. New missions are normally
       identified at Milestone C.
       2.1.3. Ensure mission areas not identified in this instruction, utilizing HQ AFSPC-funded
       launch services, provide functional availability analysis.
       2.1.4. Certify and authorize release of all official FARs and the reliability parameter lists
       used as inputs to computing functional availability.
       2.1.5. Approve     and accredit modeling and simulation (M&S) applications for use in
       FAR process.
       2.1.6. Ensure FAR is published annually NLT 31 March to align with PPBE process.
       Specific FAR requirements are located in paragraph 2.7.7
   2.2. Spacelift and Range Operations Branch (HQ AFSPC/A3SR) will:
       2.2.1. Serve as functional availability single Point of Contact (POC) between HQ
       AFSPC and domestic external agencies/organizations.
       2.2.2. Serve as the HQ AFSPC Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for satellite
       functional availability planning.
       2.2.3. Produce reports for MAJCOM and HHQ customers for release by Service Lead or
       appropriate AFSPC mission area lead/division chief, as required.
4                                                            AFSPCI10-140 23 AUGUST 2012


       2.2.4. Maintain a list of Functional Availability Working Group (FAWG) Leads, FAWG
       meeting dates, and FAR report status for each mission area.
       2.2.5. Ensure only HQ AFSPC/A3 approved reliability parameter lists are used to
       generate all HQ AFSPC reports used in FARs.
       2.2.6. Provide FAWGs with launch profile for use in annual FARs.
       2.2.7. Ensure all FARs meet standardized format as provided on the Launch Information
       Support Network (LISN) website.
       2.2.8. Post final unclassified reports on the LISN website at https://lisn.afspc.af.mil and
       all reports on the classified LISN website (up to SECRET) at
       http://lisn.afspc.af.smil.mil
       2.2.9. Post the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO)-produced launch vehicle (LV)
       reliabilities on all levels of the LISN website.
    2.3. Mission Area Leads/Divisions: Space Superiority (HQ AFSPC/A3SC/A5C); Space
    Protection and Information Operations (HQ AFSPC/A3SC); Missile Warning/Missile
    Defense (HQ AFSPC/A3SF/A5F); Space Based Environmental Monitoring (HQ
    AFSPC/A3SF/A5FW); Space Support- MILSATCOM (HQ AFSPC/A3SM/A5MS/A5MT);
    Space Support- Positioning, Navigation and Timing (HQ AFSPC/A3SM/A5MP), will:
       2.3.1. Provide the MAJCOM mission area expertise and appoint primary and alternate
       FAWG Leads. There is normally one FAWG Lead per mission area.
       2.3.2. Convene FAWGs, as required, to produce all FARs. FAWGs will follow guidance
       as specified in paragraph 2.6. See Figure 2.2 for required FAR reporting cycle.
          2.3.2.1. Produce updates to FARs following significant events, as needed, within 60
          days of event. The extent of the FAR update should reflect the extent of the
          significant event.
AFSPCI10-140 23 AUGUST 2012                                                                   5


Figure 2.2. Satellite Functional Availability Reporting Cycle




       2.3.3. Coordinate FARs with HQ AF/A3/A5, HQ AFSPC/A3SR/A5/A8/9, SMC
       (appropriate systems program office), and appropriate NAF/warfighting HQ (A3 or
       equivalent), prior to requesting A3 approval.
       2.3.4. Assist FAWGs with classification determination, as required.
       2.3.5. Identify unassigned/future missions to the appropriate Service/Agency Lead.
   2.4. Director of Plans, Programs and Analyses (HQ AFSPC/A8/9) will:
       2.4.1. Ensure FARs are reviewed and integrated into long range planning and
       programming efforts.
       2.4.2. Collect user requirements for mission modeling.
       2.4.3. Serve as subject matter experts to evaluate modeling tools used by HQ AFSPC.
       2.4.4. Provide mission modeling tools.
       2.4.5. Ensure models support commonality of FARs.
       2.4.6. Review accreditation plans and reports and provide recommendations concerning
       AF owned or managed M&S tools.
       2.4.7. Assist in developing a verification and validation (V&V) program that will support
       accreditation decisions.
       2.4.8. Attend FAWGs and provide subject matter expertise in evaluating/certifying
       reliability parameters.
6                                                            AFSPCI10-140 23 AUGUST 2012


    2.5. Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC) will:
       2.5.1. Provide SMC Directorate-approved reliability parameter lists to appropriate HQ
       AFSPC mission area lead/division and HQ AFSPC/A3SR NLT 15 July of each year, and
       when there has been a substantive change impacting constellation status (such as a
       satellite anomaly impacting the vehicle life expectancy). This will ensure the most
       current data is used for HQ AFSPC POM and FAR submissions. Reference Figure 2.2
          2.5.1.1. When multiple satellite systems are used to satisfy a given mission area,
          ensure coordination with appropriate Service/Agency Lead(s) representative.
       2.5.2. Provide expertise and support to FAWGs, as required by FAWG Lead.
          2.5.2.1. Provide sufficient lower-level reliability model details to the FAWG so the
          FAWG understands the key factors driving the overall reliability model and its
          sensitivity to lower-level model perturbations.
       2.5.3. Ensure all reports are properly marked with appropriate launch schedule, time
       origin, parameter dates, releasing authority and indicate variations from approved launch
       schedules and parameters. See also paragraph 3.2.3.
          2.5.3.1. Program Directors may release reports for specific teams, assessments,
          studies, exercises, etc., if the situation requires near real time analysis. These special
          analyses will show Program Director as the release authority, and will include the
          purpose, timeframe, releasing authority, and parameters used in the reports. A copy of
          all analyses will be provided to HQ AFSPC/A3 for situational awareness and for
          incorporation into formal A3-approved OPGAP reports, as applicable.
       2.5.4. Develop and present accreditation plans and reports to support the FAR for
       approval by HQ AFSPC/A3 prior to release of the FAR to external organizations.
    2.6. Functional Availability Working Group (FAWG) Lead will:
       2.6.1. Convene FAWGs as required for respective mission area.            Each FAWG will
       determine if a face-to-face meeting is necessary.
       2.6.2. Determine required FAWG membership and ensure acquisition organization
       representatives, pertinent payload & platform operational managers, appropriate ground
       system and operations experts, M&S analysts, and other stakeholders and user
       community representatives are included, as appropriate.
       2.6.3. Forward FAWG-certified parameter lists to HQ AFSPC/A3 for MAJCOM
       approval.
       2.6.4. Ensure FARs adhere to standardized format provided on LISN website at
       https://lisn.afspc.af.mil in the downloads section.
       2.6.5. Advise HQ AFSPC/A3SR of FAWG progress and FAR production when delays
       occur or support is required.
       2.6.6. Ensure FAR is marked IAW appropriate classification guidance.
       2.6.7. Ensure FAR production IAW Figure 2.2 and Paragraph 2.7.7
    2.7. Functional Availability Working Group (FAWG) will:
AFSPCI10-140 23 AUGUST 2012                                                                    7


     2.7.1. Review, understand, and certify SMC Directorate-approved reliability parameter
     lists within 30 days of receipt.
     2.7.2. Ensure M&S applications are accredited in accordance with AFI 16-1001,
     Verification, Validation, and Accreditation (VV&A). Ensure V&V documentation is
     submitted to HQ AFSPC/A9 for approval of M&S applications.
     2.7.3. Ensure all M&S tools/reliability parameters used in FAR development are listed in
     the report and clearly identify all additional inputs and assumptions.
     2.7.4. Define functional success criteria.
     2.7.5. Determine and obtain user agreement on functional availability thresholds.
     Thresholds must be documented in the FAR. Two functional availability thresholds shall
     be used to depict three regions of functional availability success.
        2.7.5.1. The “planned” (green) region corresponds to the probability that a
        constellation will satisfy the functional success criteria. This region represents the
        level of probability of success the system should strive to achieve. The “planned”
        threshold is the lower level of this region and should be used to time replacement of
        assets.
        2.7.5.2. The “below planned” (yellow) region indicates that the probability of the
        constellation meeting all mission goals is less than specified by functional success
        criteria. The “below planned” (yellow) region is between the “planned” threshold
        and the “below planned threshold”. Nominally, the goal will be to avoid the “below
        planned” region.
        2.7.5.3. The “below minimum” (red) region is below the “below planned” threshold
        and indicates the probability of the constellation meeting functional success criteria is
        at an unacceptable level. This level of risk should be avoided.
     2.7.6. Ensure FARs utilize the latest NRO-produced launch vehicle success probabilities
     posted on the LISN website at https://lisn.afspc.af.mil.
     2.7.7. Ensure FARs provide an adequate assessment of the mission.
        2.7.7.1. Include all segments: space, launch, control (ground and operations), and
        user (as applicable to functional availability).
        2.7.7.2. Add classified supplements, as needed.
        2.7.7.3. Scenarios may be used to illustrate and communicate the capabilities
        provided and/or needed.
        2.7.7.4. FARs may be produced in two parts (see templates located on LISN website
        at https://lisn.afspc.af.mil. Part I will contain static information and will be
        reviewed/updated biennially or when significant changes occur. Part II will contain
        dynamic information, including the M&S charts, and requires an annual up date NLT
        31 March to align with PPBE cycle.
        2.7.7.5. Coordinate, certify, approve, and distribute FAR IAW paragraph 3.3
 8                                                            AFSPCI10-140 23 AUGUST 2012


3. Satellite Functional Availability Process.
     3.1. Reliability Parameter Lists (Input).
        3.1.1. Proposal. SMC Directorates will generate annual reliability parameter lists and
        internally approve reliability parameters prior to forwarding them to the FAWG Lead.
        3.1.2. Certification. Upon receipt of SMC Directorate-approved reliability parameter
        lists the respective FAWG Lead will forward them to the FAWG members. Each FAWG
        will meet, as required, to review, understand and certify their reliability parameter lists
        within 30 days. Understanding the reliability parameter lists includes knowing the
        limited life components affecting the reliability parameters and variations between
        previous and current data sets. Each FAWG will ensure maximum utilization of
        empirical data when available. Following FAWG certification, the FAWG Lead will
        forward certified reliability parameter lists to the Service Lead.
        3.1.3. MAJCOM Approval. The Service Lead will approve reliability parameter lists.
     3.2. Modeling (Analysis).
        3.2.1. Modeling Tools.    AF- and AFSPC-approved tools will be used to perform
        system/mission modeling. To gain HQ AFSPC approval for other modeling tools, the
        FAWG should present a summary of the modeling tool, its capabilities, and output
        examples to the Service/Agency Lead for approval. M&S tools must also be accredited
        by the Service/Agency Lead.
        3.2.2. Skilled Interpretation. The model alone is not the complete answer. The FAWG
        is responsible for validating model results and accurately depicting system/mission area
        capabilities, shortfalls, and future needs.
        3.2.3. Modeling Reports. HQ AFSPC/A3SR and any other agency capable of producing
        modeling reports will ensure reports are properly marked with appropriate launch
        schedule, time origin, parameter dates, purpose for release, releasing authority and
        indicate variations from approved launch schedules and parameters.
        3.2.4. Report Releasability. At the request of the service lead or AFSPC mission area
        lead/division chief, HQ AFSPC/A3SR will produce reports for organizations outside the
        MAJCOM. An accreditation report is required prior to release of modeling results
        outside of HQ AFSPC. Releasing agency will determine if the modeling results are
        covered by an existing accreditation report or if the modeling represents a new
        application and requires an updated accreditation report. The release processes outlined
        here are for intra-governmental users. Freedom of Information Act requests and
        discovery requests in civil litigation are separate and distinct. Those will be processed in
        accordance with AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program, and AFI 51-
        301, Civil Litigation.
            3.2.4.1. Reports and supporting reliability parameters/Excel file/data from accredited
            M&S tools may be released by the appropriate AFSPC mission area lead/division
            chief (or SMC personnel with prior approval per paragraph 2.5.3.1) following
            coordination with A3 or A5 counterpart, HQ AFSPC/A3SR/A8/9, NAF and SMC
            directorate personnel, as appropriate. HQ AFSPC/A3 approval is required for release
AFSPCI10-140 23 AUGUST 2012                                                                9


          to non-AF organizations. Note that reports are normally used in FARs and are
          generated according to criteria prescribed in paragraphs 3.2.3. and 3.2.4.
          3.2.4.2. Reports and supporting reliability parameters/Excel file/data and/or
          reliability parameters/data from unaccredited tools require HQ AFSPC/A3 approval
          following coordination with A3 or A5 counterpart, HQ AFSPC/A3SR/A8/9, NAF and
          appropriate SMC directorate personnel. AFSPC/CC approval is required for release
          to non-AF organizations.
          3.2.4.3. Data and models used to generate reliability parameters normally are not
          releasable. Additional guidance on approval requirements for releasing M&S reports
          and associated data is presented in Figure 3.1       While the matrix is not all-
          encompassing, these guidelines should be followed for releasing to organizations at
          the same/similar level as represented in the matrix. Contact HQ AFSPC/A3SR for
          further clarification on releasabilty requirements.

Figure 3.1. Approval Requirements for Data Releasability




   3.3. Functional Availability Report (FAR) (Output).
      3.3.1. Proposal. A proposal is a draft FAR. This draft will be produced by the FAWG
      Lead. FAWG members may author specific sections of the report for inclusion within
      the draft.
10                                                        AFSPCI10-140 23 AUGUST 2012


     3.3.2. Certification. After the draft report is complete, the FAWG Lead will forward it to
     the FAWG for review. The FAWG will meet, as required, to review, understand and
     certify the FAR. Due to the vested authority of the FAWG, the FAWG fulfills the
     equivalent of 3-letter coordination of the FAR. Following FAWG certification, the
     FAWG Lead will forward the FAR via 2-letter coordination. Following 2-letter
     coordination and appropriate comment resolution, the FAWG Lead will forward the FAR
     to the Service Lead for approval.
     3.3.3. Service Lead Approval. The Service Lead is final approval for FAR release. The
     Service Lead will provide informational copies to Office of the Under Secretary of
     Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (OUSD/AT&L), HQ AF/A3/A5,
     AFSPC/CC/CV, SMC/CC (AFPEO Space), AFPEO Space Launch, and 14 AF
     (AFSTRAT)/CC. A final report will be sent to the Department of Defense (DoD)
     Executive Agent for Space NLT 31 March. Interested parties may find FARs on the
     LISN website at https://lisn.afspc.af.mil for unclassified reports and the classified
     website at http://lisn.afspc.af.smil.mil




                                          JACK WEINSTEIN, Major General, USAF
                                          Director of Air, Space and Cyberspace Operations
AFSPCI10-140 23 AUGUST 2012                                                                 11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Executive Agent for Space Interim Guide for Satellite Functional Availability Planning, 22
Mar 2004
DoDI 5000.61, DoD Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Verification, Validation, and
Accreditation (VV&A), 9 December 2009
AFI 16-1001, Verification, Validation and Accreditation (VV&A), 1 Jun 1996

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AF PEO—Program Executive Office
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFSPCI—Air Force Space Command Instruction
AFSTRAT—Air Forces Strategic-Space
ANG—Air National Guard
AT&L—Acquisition, Technology and Logistics
CBO—Congressional Budget Office
DoD—Department of Defense
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FAR—Functional Availability Report
FAWG—Functional Availability Working Group
GAO—Government Accountability Office HAF —Headquarters Air Force
HQ—Headquarters
IMT—Information Management Tool
LISN—Launch Information Support Network
LSO—Launch Services Office
M&S—Modeling and Simulation
NAF—Numbered Air Force
 12                                                         AFSPCI10-140 23 AUGUST 2012


NRO—National Reconnaissance Office NUDET —Nuclear Detonation
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PNT—Positioning, Navigation and Timing
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
USSTRATCOM—United States Strategic Command
V&V—Verification and Validation
VV&A—Verification, Validation, and Accreditation
VV&C—Verification, Validation, and Certification
WG—Wing

Terms
Accreditation— Accreditation is the official determination by the accreditation authority that
the
M&S is acceptable for a specific purpose. This determination considers the V&V status of
a specific model version, its data support (source, quality, and verification, validation and
certification— VV&C) and the analysts/users that operate the model and interpret its results.
The accreditation authority is the individual who is responsible and accountable for decisions or
actions based upon the specific M&S usage. The decision to accredit a model or simulator rests
solely with the accreditation authority. Likewise, determining the level of effort supporting a
particular accreditation, whether conducting additional V&V activities or simply reviewing the
existing M&S documentation and past VV&A history, rests solely with the accreditation
authority. The validation documentation of M&S application results correlating M&S results
with test or other data describing behavior of the subject being modeled will be reviewed during
the M&S accreditation assessment.
Control Segment— The resources needed to perform command and control of spacecraft,
usually consists of ground equipment/network and personnel performing operations and
operational support activities.
Functional Availability— The probability of satisfying the functional success criteria for a
given mission as a function of time. This value can be graphically depicted as probability of
mission success.
Functional Availability Analysis— Provides a forecast to the operational community, assists in
making launch decisions, and aids program managers when formulating procurement budgets.
Serves as an analytical basis for satellite procurement budgets, and accordingly represents a key
aspect for major satellite system budget decisions.
Functional Availability Report (FAR)— A document depicting the results of the functional
availability analysis. This report requires formal FAWG certification and Service Lead approval.
AFSPCI10-140 23 AUGUST 2012                                                                     13


Functional Availability Working Group (FAWG)— This advisory group is convened by the
FAWG Lead, appointed by the appropriate mission area lead/division chief, and is responsible
for reviewing and certifying the reliability parameter list and submitting the parameters to the
Service Lead for approval. The FAWG develops and coordinates the Functional Availability
Report (FAR) and submits it to the Service Lead for certification. This group consists of, at a
minimum, the FAWG Lead, Aerospace, acquisition organization representatives, pertinent
payload and platform operational managers, USSTRATCOM and other stakeholders, launch
schedulers, M&S analysts/specialists, and user community representatives, as appropriate.
Functional Success Criteria— A minimum level of performance a satellite constellation must
achieve for a specific satellite constellation mission.
Launch Segment— The resources needed to perform pre-launch testing and place spacecraft on
orbit, including the launch vehicle, upper stage, facilities, equipment, networks, range resources
and associated personnel.
Launch Services Office (LSO)— An office within HQ AFSPC/A3S stood up by PMD
7123(19)/35171F dated 22 Mar 91 to perform launch scheduling, satellite modeling, and other
launch related modeling.
Launch Vehicle Success Probability— The probability of a specific booster or upper stage
achieving successful satellite deployment in an acceptable orbit.
Minimum Functional Availability— The minimum acceptable functional availability for a
given satellite constellation mission, as determined by the customer community.
Mission Area— A space mission area is the capability provided by one or more satellite
constellations.    These mission areas can be composed of existing or future satellite
constellations. Current HQ AFSPC mission areas are: Positioning Navigation and Timing
(PNT), Missile Warning (strategic and theater), Missile Defense (strategic and theater),
Technical Intelligence, Battlespace Awareness, Environmental Monitoring, Nuclear Detonation
(NUDET) Detection, Protected Communications, and Wideband Communications. HQ AFSPC
should model mission area capabilities based on war fighter and/or user requirements.
Mission Modeling— Modeling capabilities of a mission area (such as PNT) to include all
appropriate space, launch and ground segments. All user requirements should be considered.
Reliability Parameter List— A report and file depicting an explicit and summary level listing
of key input reliability parameters, values, and assumptions for use in the functional availability
analysis.
Satellite Constellation— A satellite constellation is comprised of those on-orbit satellites
capable and intended to support a unique satellite constellation mission. A given satellite may be
considered part of more than one constellation and support more than one mission.
Satellite Constellation Mission— A unique performance requirement of a satellite constellation
that is traceable to a specific customer need. A satellite constellation satisfies one or more
functional success criteria.
Service Lead— The single Point of Contact within the Air Force to the DoD Executive Agent
for Space. The Service Lead for AF will be the HQ AFSPC Director of Air, Space and
Cyberspace Operations (A3).
 14                                                          AFSPCI10-140 23 AUGUST 2012


Space Segment— Space segment is the payload and the spacecraft bus together. Examples of
space segments include Global Positioning System (GPS), Defense Support Program (DSP),
Milstar, Defense Satellite Communications System (DSCS), and Defense Meteorological
Satellite Program (DMSP) constellations.
Space System— All of the devices and organizations forming the space network. These consist
of: spacecraft; mission packages(s); ground stations; data links among spacecraft, mission or user
terminals, which may include initial reception, processing, and exploitation; launch systems; and
directly related supporting infrastructure, including space surveillance and battle management
and/or command, control, communications and computers. HQ AFSPC divides space systems
into four segments: space, launch, control, and user.
System Modeling— For the purposes of this instruction, system modeling has historically been
accomplished by modeling satellite constellations such as Global Positioning System (GPS),
Defense Support Program (DSP), Milstar, Defense Satellite Communications System (DSCS),
and Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP) constellations.
User Segment— The equipment/networks and personnel accessing mission capabilities.              As
related to functional availability, the FAR should provide a brief description of the user segment,
including an overview of the systems, data/capabilities provided or needed. Of particular interest
are differences between acquisition profiles of space segment and user community.
Validation— The process of determining the degree to which a model is an accurate
representation of the real-world from the perspective of the intended uses of the model.
Validation process can be used to identify model improvements, where necessary. It has two
main components: structural validation, which includes an internal examination of M&S
assumptions, architecture, and algorithms in the context of the intended use; and output
validation, which determines how well the M&S results compare with the perceived "real
world."
Verification— Verification is the process of determining that M&S accurately represent the
developer’s conceptual description and specifications. This is accomplished by identifying and
eliminating mistakes in logic, mathematics, or programming. This process establishes that the
M&S code and logic correctly perform the intended functions, and to what extent M&S
development activities conform to state-of-the-practice software engineering techniques.
