BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                           INSTRUCTION 32-1001

                                                                          30 JANUARY 2012

                                                                            Civil Engineering

                                                        AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
                                              FACILITIES EXCELLENCE RECOGNITION
                                                                        PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFSPC/A4/7PP                                        Certified by: AFSPC/A4/7P (T. Gene
                                                                                  Gallogly)
Supersedes:   AFSPCI 32-1001, 15 Nov 08                                           Pages: 21


This instruction establishes the process for Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) biennial
Facilities Excellence Recognition Program. It provides objectives, responsibilities and
evaluation criteria and procedures. It applies to HQ AFSPC and its subordinate units. This
instruction does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard
(ANG) units. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)          Records        Disposition      Schedule      (RDS)        located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and
supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been marginally revised. Changes include removal of references to former
AFSPC installations and Missile Alert Facilities (MAFs) that were officially reassigned to Air
Force Global Strike Command on 1 Dec 09 and inclusion of new energy reporting programs and
updating of references in Attachment 1.
 2                                                                                      AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012



Chapter 1—GENERAL                                                                                                                            3
      1.1.   Introduction ............................................................................................................       3
      1.2.   Goals ......................................................................................................................    3
      1.3.   Competition Categories .........................................................................................                3
      1.4.   Evaluation Schedule ..............................................................................................              3

Chapter 2—RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                                   4
      2.1.   AFSPC Commander ..............................................................................................                  4
      2.2.   AFSPC Logistics, Installations and Mission Support Directorate (HQ AFSPC A4/7)                                                      4
      2.3.   Other AFSPC Directorates .....................................................................................                  4
      2.4.   Wing Commanders ................................................................................................                4

Chapter 3—EVALUATIONS                                                                                                                        6
      3.1.   HQ AFSPC Evaluation Team Composition ..........................................................                                 6
Table 3.1.   Large Installation Evaluation Team Composition. ................................................                                6
Table 3.2.   GSU Evaluation Team Composition. ....................................................................                           6
      3.2.   Evaluation Areas ....................................................................................................           6
      3.3.   Facilities Evaluated ................................................................................................           8
      3.4.   Evaluation Ratings .................................................................................................            9
Table 3.4.   Evaluation Rating Scale. ........................................................................................               9

Chapter 4—AWARDS                                                                                                                            10
      4.1.   Padden Award ........................................................................................................          10
      4.2.   Trophies .................................................................................................................     10
      4.3.   Monetary Awards ..................................................................................................             10
      4.4.   Special Recognition ...............................................................................................            10

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              11

Attachment 2—EVALUATION SCHEDULE                                                                                                            12

Attachment 3—SUBMISSIONS                                                                                                                    13

Attachment 4—DETAILED EVALUATION CRITERIA                                                                                                   14
AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012                                                                3



                                          Chapter 1

                                         GENERAL

1.1. Introduction
   1.1.1. The AFSPC Facilities Excellence Program promotes excellence in the construction
   and maintenance of installations and facilities for our people to work, live and play.
   Experience has shown that well-designed working and living environments promote
   increased productivity, reduced absenteeism and longer retention of highly-trained personnel.
   Additionally, increased mission demands in an era of decreasing resources have placed an
   increased emphasis on reducing facility operations and maintenance costs. Finally, the
   changing nature of threats to the United States has required incorporation of new measures to
   deter acts of terrorism against personnel. The overreaching goal of the AFSPC Facilities
   Excellence Program is to provide and maintain the best possible facilities resources will
   allow.
1.2. Goals
   1.2.1. Promote design excellence in the built environment by providing safe, sustainable,
   productive and functional installations and facilities.
   1.2.2. Ensure installations and facilities comply with environmental regulations, protect and
   conserve natural and cultural resources and reduce the quantity of waste and pollutants
   entering the environment.
   1.2.3. Encourage spirited competition between AFSPC installations and promote a sense of
   pride of ownership within base personnel.
1.3. Competition Categories
   1.3.1. Large Installation Category: Buckley AFB; Los Angeles AFB; Patrick AFB (with
   Cape Canaveral AFS); Peterson AFB; Schriever AFB; and Vandenberg AFB.
   1.3.2. Geographically Separated Unit (GSU) Category: Includes one GSU each nominated
   by Peterson AFB, Patrick AFB and Schriever AFB.
1.4. Evaluation Schedule
   1.4.1. Evaluations will be conducted each year from March through August on a two-year
   rotating schedule. Large installations will be evaluated in even-numbered years and the
   GSUs will be evaluated in odd calendar years. A detailed Evaluation Schedule is provided at
   Attachment 2.
 4                                                              AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012


                                              Chapter 2

                                       RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. AFSPC Commander
     2.1.1. Selects the winning installation from each evaluation category.
     2.1.2. Presents the award to the winning installation from each category at the AFSPC
     Commanders’ Conference.
2.2. AFSPC Logistics, Installations and Mission Support Directorate (HQ AFSPC A4/7)
     2.2.1. Is the office of primary responsibility and issues correspondence and guidance
     necessary to administer the program.
     2.2.2. Appoints the project officer to coordinate the evaluation schedule, travel and billeting
     arrangements and other administrative and logistical support with the Wing project officers.
     2.2.3. Funds all travel and temporary duty expenses for the evaluation team.
     2.2.4. Solicits members to comprise AFSPC Facilities Excellence evaluation teams as
     indicated in paragraph 3.1., HQ AFSPC Evaluation Team Composition.
     2.2.5. Briefs team members on the evaluation criteria and procedures in preparation for the
     visits.
     2.2.6. Leads the team in the preparation of team reports, written critiques and out-briefings.
     2.2.7. Acquires and arranges for the presentation of awards.
2.3. Other AFSPC Directorates
     2.3.1. The Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and Services (A1), the Directorate of Air,
     Space and Cyber Space Operations (A3), the Directorate of Communications and
     Information (A6) and/or the Directorate of Plans and Programs (A8/9) to provide team
     members as indicated in paragraph 3.1, HQ AFSPC Evaluation Team Composition.
     2.3.2. Other directorates may provide staff members to aid in the evaluation of installations
     as required.
2.4. Wing Commanders
     2.4.1. For the GSU category, nominate one GSU per Wing (as applicable).
     2.4.2. Nominate up to two recipients for special recognition for exceptional contributions to
     Facilities Excellence at the installation or GSU to be evaluated. The recipients may be one or
     two individuals, one or two teams or one individual and one team. Provide a paragraph on
     plain bond paper describing the nominee’s accomplishments. Include specific examples of
     projects within the descriptive paragraph.
     2.4.3. Appoint a project officer as the installation point of contact.
     2.4.4. Coordinate on-site itineraries including all briefings and facility evaluations.
     2.4.5. Provide on-site travel to each facility to be evaluated by the evaluation team.
AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012                                                                     5


   2.4.6. Provide an in-brief to the evaluation team. Include the following: unit mission
   briefing, initiatives taken to meet DoD and AFSPC goals (i.e., 20/20 by 2020), LEED
   compliance, energy reduction, facility demolition and space consolidation and any
   environmental initiatives. Provide a summary of the Air Force Energy Reporting System
   (AFERS). Provide status of the Facilities Excellence Plan and the Installation General Plan
   and any other significant initiatives contributing to Facilities Excellence.
   2.4.7. Provide a copy of the installation’s current Facilities Excellence Plan and other local
   standards; for example, the General Plan, landscaping plan, demolition plan, MILCON and
   Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization by Contract (SRMC) program priorities and
   other plans related to Facilities Excellence. Provide an installation map for reference.
   2.4.8. Provide the evaluation teams with administrative, computer and photographic support
   as required. Provide a meeting room with computer and projection capabilities.
   2.4.9. Provide escorts to the evaluation teams for their tours of the installation and facilities.
   Ensure facility managers and/or facility owners are aware and available during building
   visits.
   2.4.10. A detailed list of submissions is provided at Attachment 3.
 6                                                          AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012


                                           Chapter 3

                                        EVALUATIONS

3.1. HQ AFSPC Evaluation Team Composition
     3.1.1. Large Installation Team consists of four members from the following organizations in
     Table 3.1.

Table 3.1. Large Installation Evaluation Team Composition.
Number of Team      Rank                  Directorate / Division
Members
1                   O6 or civilian        Directorate of Logistics, Installations & Mission
                    equivalent            Support (A4/7):
                                             1. Plans and Programs Div (A4/7P) or
                                             2. CE Operations Div (A7O) or
                                             3. Asset Management Div (A7A)
1 or 2              SNCO or O4 and        Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and Services
                    above or civilian     (A1), or
                    equivalent            Directorate of Air, Space & Cyber Space Operations
                                          (A3), or
                                          Directorate of Communications & Information (A6),
                                          or
                                          Directorate of Plans & Programs (A8/9)
1 or 2              FGO or civilian       Directorate of Logistics, Installations & Mission
                    equivalent            Support (A4/7)

     3.1.2. Geographically Separated Unit (GSU) Team consists of three members from the
     following organizations:

Table 3.2. GSU Evaluation Team Composition.
Number of Team      Rank                  Directorate / Division
Members
1                   FGO or civilian       Directorate of Logistics, Installations & Mission
                    equivalent            Support (A4/7)
2                   SNCO or O4 and        Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and Services
                    above or civilian     (A1), or
                    equivalent            Directorate of Air, Space & Cyber Space Operations
                                          (A3), or
                                          Directorate of Communications & Information (A6),
                                          or
                                          Directorate of Plans & Programs (A8/9)
3.2. Evaluation Areas
AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012                                                                   7


   3.2.1. Installations will be assessed using ten Evaluation Areas as defined below. More
   detailed descriptions of the Evaluation Areas are provided in Attachment 4.
   3.2.2. Installation Planning and Urban Design. The installation will be evaluated on its
   short, medium and long range planning efforts expressed in the General Plan, Facility
   Excellence Plan and other component and special plans. Emphasis will be placed on efforts
   relating to site planning, consolidation and demolition, space utilization and optimization,
   integration of landscaping and AT/FP, transportation networks and reducing impacts to
   natural, cultural and environmental resources. The results of applying proper planning
   methodologies and standardization of building components should be an urban environment
   that is environmentally and functionally efficient, promotes a high aesthetic quality, a sense
   of community, is a reflection of the region in which it is situated and is logically ordered to
   support the installation's mission.
   3.2.3. Asset Management. The installation is actively implementing Asset Management
   philosophy. Activity Management Plans (AMPs) and Space Utilization S-Files are being
   maintained and updated as required. The resulting project prioritization from the AMPs and
   Space utilization plans are being briefed to the Facilities Board.
      3.2.3.1. For AFSPC’s main bases, Activity Ownership has been implemented to expand
      the Asset Management philosophy. As identified in AFSPCI 32-1013, AO’s are
      accountable for identification of requirements and interaction with the Community
      Planners. Installation identifies requirements during the Activity Management Review
      process and is actively implementing the AMR recommendations in solving natural and
      built infrastructure challenges.
   3.2.4. Command Special Interest. The installation will be evaluated on a variety of
   MAJCOM special interest topics that vary annually depending on the Air Force or Space
   Command focus area. Special interest topics are highlighted in the annual call letter that
   announces the Facility Excellence cycle.
   3.2.5. Infrastructure. The installation will be evaluated on its efforts to reduce energy
   consumption and optimize energy performance. The installation is actively researching
   renewable energy projects that may include purchasing electricity from renewable energy
   sources. Utilities are well designed and sited appropriately to reduce visual impacts and
   vulnerability to terrorist attacks. Methods to reduce deteriorating effects of outside corrosion
   are applied and ways to improve the life-cycle of construction materials are sought. Air
   Force Energy Reporting System (AFERS) reports are submitted accurately and punctually.
   3.2.6. Streets, Parking and Pavements. Streets, parking lots and pavements will be evaluated
   for safe and efficient traffic management. Emphasis will be placed on surface and curb
   maintenance, striping and traffic controls. Handicapped accessibility is accommodated.
   Compliance with antiterrorism standards is apparent. Sustainable design is incorporated, like
   impervious pavements to minimize storm water run-off and vegetated landscaping to reduce
   heat island effects and increase aesthetic value.
   3.2.7. Landscaping, Grounds and Site Amenities. These components will be evaluated for
   their ability to enhance the base and facility appearance and blend in as a function of the
   installation’s urban environment. Landscape materials make use of native or adapted
   vegetation to reduce the need for irrigation. Natural vegetation is undisturbed wherever
 8                                                           AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012


     practical. Vegetation is used to reduce energy consumption and heat island effects.
     Recycled materials are commonly employed where appropriate and in compliance. AT/FP
     measures maintain proper standoff distances and provide passive barriers.
     3.2.8. Fences, Screens and Enclosures. Materials are durable, require little maintenance and
     are free of corrosion or other damage. Recycled materials are utilized where appropriate.
     Fencing and enclosures maintain proper AT/FP standoff distances. Enclosures are
     appropriately sited and sized for their function. Materials and designs are compatible with
     the installation’s architectural theme.
     3.2.9. Exterior Signage. Signage is standardized and in compliance with Air Force and other
     applicable standards and presents a uniform professional image. Directional signage is well
     designed and established for common visitor destinations. Signage is minimized to reduce
     visual clutter and extraneous signage is not evident.
     3.2.10. Architectural Design. Most vertical constructions and major renovations qualify for
     Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver certification to optimize
     energy performance and conserve water. Use of recycled content materials meets or exceeds
     the requirements of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Comprehensive Procurement
     Guidelines. Construction and demolition waste streams are diverted in accordance with DoD
     and AFSPC goals. Building systems are optimized for comfort and energy efficiency. Work
     areas have access to daylight and views. Indoor air quality is routinely monitored by the
     facility Energy Management Control System (EMCS) and sources of indoor pollutants are
     controlled. Fenestration, structural systems and ventilation systems comply with current
     antiterrorism standards. Buildings comply with accessibility and model building codes to
     ensure public safety and health. Floor plans are open and flexible to accommodate change.
     Materials are durable and well maintained and repairs are unobtrusive. Architectural style
     responds to regional influences and local conditions and provides a cohesive image.
     3.2.11. Interior Design. Most vertical constructions and major renovations qualify for
     Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver certification to optimize
     energy performance and conserve water. Finish materials and furnishings include recycled
     content and low emitting volatile organic compounds, and are durable, low maintenance and
     reusable. Use of recycled content materials meets or exceeds the requirements of the
     Environmental Protection Agency’s Comprehensive Procurement Guidelines. Construction
     and demolition waste streams are diverted in accordance with LEED, DoD and AFSPC
     goals. Repairs are unobtrusive. Materials are well maintained and properly cleaned. Low-
     emitting cleaning products are employed for improved indoor air quality. Spaces are
     accessible, well organized, appropriately sized, functional and flexible. System furniture
     layouts comply with accessibility and model building codes to ensure public safety and
     health. Form, scale, proportion and order of spaces are suitable for their function. Finishes,
     furnishings, accessories and artwork are well coordinated and present a harmonious and
     professional environment in accordance with the installation’s Facilities Excellence Plan.
     Work areas have access to daylight and views. Lighting is of an appropriate type and style
     provides the correct amount of illumination for the function of the space and is energy
     efficient. Signage is minimized and is standardized throughout the facility.
3.3. Facilities Evaluated
AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012                                                                   9


     3.3.1. Facilities for evaluation under the Architectural Design and Interior Design evaluation
     areas will be selected from the following building types: Administrative Facilities,
     Operations Facilities, Logistics Facilities, Services Facilities, Medical Facilities, Civil
     Engineer Facilities, Communications Facilities and Infrastructure, and Dormitories.
3.4. Evaluation Ratings
     3.4.1. Evaluation Rating Scale. Ratings for each evaluation area will be measured on a ten
     point scale as indicated in Table 3.4.3.

Table 3.4. Evaluation Rating Scale.
 Strongly Disagree   Disagree           Neutral            Agree           Strongly Agree
 1          2        3          4       5         6        7       8       9         10

     3.4.2. Weighting Factors. Evaluation area ratings will be weighted as follows to determine
     the final scores:
Table 3.4.1. Weighting Factors.


 Installation Planning and Urban Design               X5
 Asset Management                                     X5
 Command Special Interest                             X3
 Infrastructure                                       X3
 Streets, Parking and Pavements                       X1
 Landscaping, Grounds and Site Amenities              X1
 Fences, Screens and Enclosures                       X1
 Exterior Signage                                     X1
 Architectural Design                                 X1
 Interior Design                                      X1
 10                                                         AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012


                                           Chapter 4

                                          AWARDS

4.1. Padden Award
   4.1.1. The Command will present the Major General M. C. “Tim” Padden Award to the
   winners of each evaluation category at the AFSPC Commanders’ Conference conducted in
   the Fall.
4.2. Trophies
   4.2.1. The winners will receive a trophy for their permanent display. Large installations and
   GSUs will also receive a traveling trophy that will reside at their installation until the next
   evaluation. The traveling trophy will be engraved to show the history of winners of the
   various evaluation categories.
4.3. Monetary Awards
   4.3.1. The winners of each category will also receive funds to use for quality of life
   improvements at their installation. The large installation winner will receive $200,000 and
   the GSU winner will receive $100,000.
4.4. Special Recognition
   4.4.1. The individuals or teams nominated by their Wing Commander as having made
   exceptional contributions towards facilities excellence will be presented with a certificate at
   the evaluation team out-brief.




                                            JEFFERY C. ALLEN, SES, DAF
                                            Director of Logistics, Installations and Mission
                                            Support
AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012                                                           11


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFSPC Facilities Excellence Guide, 2009
AFSPCH32-1004, Facilities Excellence Program Standards Handbook, 15 Aug 2009
Installation Facilities Excellence Plans (publishing dates vary by installation)
AFSPCI32-1013, Asset Management and Activity Ownership, 22 Jul 2011
Air Force Sustainable Facilities Guide, 3 Mar 2000
Air Force Enlisted Dormitories Design Guide, 1 Jan 2005
AFI 32-7062, Air Force Comprehensive Planning, 1 Oct 1997 and Supplement, 1 May 1998
AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, 29 Oct 2008
ETL 07-04, AF Carpet Standard, 28 Mar 2007
ETL 08-13, Incorporating Sustainable Design and Development (SDD) and Facility Energy
Attributes in the Air Force Construction Program, 14 Sep 2008
UFC 1-200-01, Design: General Building Requirements, 27 Jan 2010
UFC 3-120-01, Air Force Sign Standard, 6 Feb 2003
UFC 3-120-10, Interior Design Requirements, 1 Jul 2007
UFC 3-201-02, Landscape Architecture, 1 Nov 2009
UFC 4-010-01, DoD Minimum Antiterrorism Standards for Buildings, 22 Jan 2007
UFC 4-030-01, Sustainable Development, 21 Dec 2007
Executive Order 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation
Management, 26 Jan 2007
A7C Memorandum, AF Sustainable Design and Development (SDD) Implementing Guidance, 2
Jun 2011
Prescribed Forms
This publication does not prescribe any forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
 12                                                                                AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012


                                                          Attachment 2
                                                EVALUATION SCHEDULE

Table A2.1. Tentative Evaluation Schedule.

                                                          Year
                                                          Of
Category                 Wing   Installation   Location   Visit   Day 1             Day 2            Day 3       Day 4
                         21                               Even    In-
                                Peterson       CO                                   Evaluate         Out-brief
                         SW                               FY      brief/Evaluate
                         30                               Even                      In-                          Out-
                                Vandenberg     CA                 Travel                             Evaluate
                         SW                               FY                        brief/Evaluate               brief/Travel
                         45     Patrick/Cape              Even                      In-                          Out-
                                               FL                 Travel                             Evaluate
                         SW     Canaveral                 FY                        brief/Evaluate               brief/Travel
                         50                               Even    In-
                                Schriever      CO                                   Evaluate         Out-brief
                         SW                               FY      brief/Evaluate
         Installations




                         61                               Even                      In-                          Out-
                                Los Angeles    CA                 Travel                             Evaluate
                         ABG                              FY                        brief/Evaluate               brief/Travel
 Large




                         460                              Even    In-
                                Buckley        CO                                   Evaluate         Out-brief
                         SW                               FY      brief/Evaluate

                         21                    TBD        Odd                       In-                          Out-
                                GSU                               Travel                             Evaluate
                         SW                               FY                        brief/Evaluate               brief/Travel

                         45                               Odd                       In-                          Out-
                                GSU            TBD                Travel                             Evaluate
                         SW                               FY                        brief/Evaluate               brief/Travel
     GSUs




                         50                               Odd                       In-                          Out-
                                GSU            TBD                Travel                             Evaluate
                         SW                               FY                        brief/Evaluate               brief/Travel
AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012                                                        13


                                         Attachment 3
                                         SUBMISSIONS

A3.1. The Wing shall submit the following information to the AFSPC project officer:

Table A3.1. Submissions.
                                                        TBD in annual
Wing Project Officer (paragraph 2.4.3)
                                                        call memo
                                                        TBD in annual
Geographically Separated Unit (paragraph 2.4.1)
                                                        call memo
                                                        TBD in annual
Special Recognition Recipients (paragraph 2.4.2)
                                                        call memo
                                                        TBD in annual
Itinerary (paragraph 2.4.4)
                                                        call memo
Facilities Excellence Plan/General Plan (paragraph      TBD in annual
2.4.7)                                                  call memo
                                                        TBD in annual
Landscaping Plan (paragraph 2.4.7)
                                                        call memo
                                                        TBD in annual
Demolition Plan (paragraph 2.4.7)
                                                        call memo
MILCON and SRMC program priorities (paragraph           TBD in annual
2.4.7)                                                  call memo
Air Force Energy Reporting System (AFERS) report        TBD in annual
summary (paragraphs 2.4.6, 3.2.5, A4.4.1)               call memo
                                                        TBD in annual
Installation Map (paragraph 2.4.7)
                                                        call memo
 14                                                         AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012


                                         Attachment 4
                          DETAILED EVALUATION CRITERIA

A4.1. Installation Planning and Urban Design
   A4.1.1. Sustainability, Energy and Environment. Natural environments are preserved to the
   fullest extent practicable. Environmental footprint of the installation is compact and imposes
   limited impact on the environment. Native vegetation and topography are maintained to the
   fullest extent practicable. Storm water is well managed. Innovative methods to reduce storm
   water runoff are employed. Storm water is stored to provide sources for irrigation or other
   appropriate uses. Facilities are sited to allow proper orientation for energy efficiency. Urban
   density is maintained at optimum levels. Facilities are sited to encourage walking rather than
   driving. Impervious pavements are minimized to the fullest extent practicable. Historic sites
   and facilities are maintained or appropriately modified for reuse.
   A4.1.2. AT/FP Programs and Force Protection Measures. Installation entrances are sited
   away from incompatible land use and critical assets. Appropriate land area is available for
   traffic calming, such as serpentine road alignments and speed humps, and proper standoff
   distance at vehicle inspection areas. Entry control facilities comply with the concepts
   developed in the Air Force Entry Control Facilities Design Guide and are appropriate for the
   type of traffic processed. Proper standoff distance is maintained between facilities and the
   installation perimeter in accordance with UFC 4-010-02, DoD Minimum Antiterrorism
   Standoff Distances for Buildings. The installation will be evaluated on its progress in
   identifying weaknesses in its AT/FP measures and implementing corrective actions.
   Facilities that are functionally compatible with similar threat levels are clustered to provide
   reduced security areas.
   A4.1.3. Health, Safety and Welfare. The installation will be evaluated on its general
   compliance with model building codes (International Building Code, National Fire Protection
   Association’s Life Safety Code and other applicable codes), occupational safety and health
   requirements and accessibility. Sites are fully accessible. Accessible parking is available in
   appropriate quantities and accessible routes are provided to all facilities and outdoor public
   space. Facilities are properly sited outside the Clear Zone and compatible with Accident
   Potential Zone criteria.
   A4.1.4. Efficiency. Functionally compatible facilities are clustered. Transportation system
   is logical, efficient and appropriately sized to meet required capacities. Urban density is
   maintained at optimal levels to maximize available land for other uses. Land and facility use
   is appropriate for its designated function and supports the installation’s mission. Base
   comprehensive planning process provides commanders with facilities and infrastructure to
   perform assigned Mission Essential Tasks. Combat readiness is not impaired because of
   facility or infrastructure deficiencies.       Installation makes use of focused Area
   Development/Mission Area Plans to foster site planning and development decisions.
   A4.1.5. Aesthetics. Public spaces such as plazas, monuments and displays organize the
   urban environment and form connections, providing a sense of movement through space.
   Public spaces provide views to the landscape beyond the boundaries of the installation,
   forming a connection between the urban environment and the land. Appropriate densities
   and mix of uses stimulate activity within public spaces.
AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012                                                                    15


A4.2. Asset Management
   A4.2.1. Sustainability, Energy and Environment. Energy Activity Owners (AOs) are
   developing comprehensive programs to meet annual and long term energy reduction goals to
   ensure all installation electrical components qualifying for maintenance and repair funds are
   identified. AOs are using programs software to measure energy performance, program
   priorities, emissions reduction and environmental quality.
   A4.2.2. Health, Safety and Welfare. AOs are conducting installation and facility activities in
   accordance with applicable laws, regulations, policies and host-nation agreements. AOs are
   ensuring that assets are not nearing unanticipated failure that jeopardizes mission
   effectiveness. They are analyzing expected life cycles of building components to determine
   risk, plan and program projects and establish priorities.
   A4.2.3. Efficiency. AOs are developing methods to achieve common levels of service like
   effective inventory systems, condition assessment programs and management plans that
   identify activity requirements. AOs coordinate with other AOs to address overlapping or
   unaddressed responsibilities that may in advertently impact other AO programs (i.e., AOs
   managing land programs may not address or impact AOs who manage wastewater/storm
   water initiatives). AOs determine appropriate levels of investment for installations and
   facilities.
   A4.2.4. Operations and Maintenance. AOs are developing a comprehensive operations,
   maintenance and investment strategies to advocate for short- and long-term investments.
   AOs are conducting activity performance management reviews. AOs ensure completion of
   project phases, including design, estimating, contracting, quality assurance construction, etc.
   S-file software is being used to address space utilization in facilities and installations.
   A4.2.5. Aesthetics. AOs ensure sufficient quantity, quality and the assessment of land,
   resources and facilities can meet and sustain current and future missions.
A4.3. Command Special Interest
   A4.3.1. The installation will be evaluated on a variety of MAJCOM special interest topics.
   Special interest topics and evaluation criteria will be provided to the installation in the annual
   call letter to the installation announcing the start of the evaluation cycle.
A4.4. Infrastructure
   A4.4.1. Sustainability, Energy and Environment. The Air Force Energy Reporting System.
   (AFERS) reports are submitted accurately and punctually. AFERS reports indicate a net
   reduction in energy consumption per square foot compared to the previous year. Energy
   consumption rates comply with the requirements established in Executive order 13423 and
   the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Installation is expanding the use of renewable energy per
   Energy Policy Act of 2005 within its facilities and installation, is implementing renewable
   energy projects and purchasing electricity from renewable energy sources.
   A4.4.2. AT/FP Programs and Force Protection Measures. Access to air intakes, water
   supply and other critical systems is appropriately controlled. Utilities are routed away from
   building entrances, mailrooms and other vulnerable areas. Critical utilities have redundant
   sources of supply or emergency backup systems to ensure safe evacuation of facilities.
 16                                                          AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012


   Emergency backup systems required for operational requirements have sufficient capacity to
   ensure continued operation of the facility until normal utilities can be restored.
   A4.4.3. Health, Safety and Welfare. Noise generated by equipment is properly abated and
   does not impact adjacent areas. Access to utility systems is limited to appropriate
   maintenance personnel.
   A4.4.4. Efficiency. Utility corridors are well established, maintained and logically
   organized. utilities are looped and have multiple connection points to eliminate single points
   of failure. Access to utility systems is segregated from facility entrances and is easily
   accessible to maintenance personnel.
   A4.4.5. Operations and Maintenance. In-house Maintenance: Indoor environmental
   parameters are monitored and compared against HVAC system design baseline. Corrective
   action on systems not performing to specified energy efficiency or in-door environmental
   quality standards is initiated routinely. Day lighting, energy monitoring and control systems
   (EMCS), high-efficiency lighting and mechanical systems are utilized to reduce energy
   consumption.
       A4.4.5.1. Service Contracts: Service contracts are consistent with the standards
       described within the Facilities Excellence Plan.
       A4.4.5.2. Facility Management. Facility managers are familiar with the standards
       described in the Facilities Excellence Plan.
   A4.4.6. Aesthetics. Utility systems are placed underground to the fullest extent practicable.
   Above ground utilities are properly screened and do not contribute to visual clutter. Utility
   connections to facilities are unobtrusive. Infrastructure support facilities are compatible with
   the architecture on the installation. Support facilities are properly landscaped. Conduit, pipe,
   duct and other conveyances are well organized and unobtrusive. Installation is actively
   managing corrosion to improve exterior appearance of facilities and reduce deterioration of
   base infrastructure.
A4.5. Streets, Parking and Pavements
   A4.5.1. Sustainability, Energy and Environment. Impervious pavements are minimized to
   the fullest extent practicable to reduce storm water runoff. Parking lots are vegetated to
   reduce heat island effects. Recycled materials are utilized to the fullest extent practicable.
   A4.5.2. AT/FP Programs and Force Protection Measures. Proper standoff distances are
   maintained between facilities and streets and parking lots.
   A4.5.3. Health, Safety and Welfare. Curb ramps are properly designed and located for ease
   of accessibility. Traffic markings are consistent with Department of Transportation standards
   and the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Potholes and cracks in pavements are
   filled to ensure a safe surface. Traffic flow is accomplished in a safe and efficient manner.
   Intersections are unobstructed and easily visible. Traffic controls are easily discernible and
   in compliance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   A4.5.4. Efficiency. Segregation of vehicular and pedestrian traffic is well defined. Parking
   areas are well planned, with double loaded aisles, 90 degree parking and vegetated traffic
   islands arranged in a logical order. Streets are adequately sized to accommodate traffic
   loads. Traffic calming devices are utilized to help control vehicle traffic.
AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012                                                                  17


   A4.5.5. Operations and Maintenance. In-house Maintenance. Cutting and patching of
   pavements is minimized. Horizontal drilling for utility lines under pavements is utilized
   rather than surface cutting and patching. Striping is well maintained and limited to the extent
   necessary for orderly and safe traffic flow.
   A4.5.6. Aesthetics. Curbs define street and parking lot edges, parking islands and segregate
   vehicle and pedestrian circulation. Refer to chapter 3 of the AFSPCH 32-1004, Facilities
   Excellence Program and Standards Handbook, for specific requirements. Parking lot islands
   provide visual relief from large expanses of pavement. Yellow paint is minimized. Pavers or
   special patterns in concrete pavement provide appropriate detail and emphasis.
A4.6. Landscaping, Grounds and Site Amenities
   A4.6.1. Sustainability, Energy and Environment. Landscape materials make extensive use
   of native or adapted vegetation (xeriscaping). Permanent irrigation is minimized to the
   greatest extent practicable. Innovative methods for collecting rainwater for irrigation are
   commonly employed. Natural vegetation is undisturbed to the greatest extent practicable.
   Vegetation is commonly employed to shade buildings, public space and parking areas to
   reduce solar gain and heat island effects. Urban forestry and landscape plans are well
   developed. Use of fertilizers and pesticides are minimized to the fullest extent practicable.
   Recycled materials are commonly employed for retaining moisture, paving stones, benches
   and other uses in accordance with the Environmental Protection Agency’s Comprehensive
   Procurement Guidelines.
   A4.6.2. AT/FP Programs and Force Protection Measures. Landscape designs utilize low
   plantings within the exclusive standoff zone, do not obscure views from facilities and
   otherwise comply with AT/FP standards. Trash containers are located in compliance with
   AT/FP standards. Landforms, trees, retaining walls, bollards and other amenities provide
   passive measures to maintain standoff distances and are well integrated into the facility
   design.
   A4.6.3. Health, Safety and Welfare. Landscape designs ensure birds and other wildlife are
   not attracted to the airfield or the flight paths of aircraft. Landscape designs ensure
   poisonous plant materials are not utilized in Military Family Housing areas, Child
   Development Centers, Family Campgrounds, parks and other similar areas.
   A4.6.4. Efficiency. Site furnishings, planters and other site features are appropriately placed
   within public spaces, are well organized and integrated into the overall design of the facility.
   A4.6.5. Operations and Maintenance. Materials are durable and appropriate for the
   environmental conditions at the installation. Materials are well maintained and do not exhibit
   excessive wear. Landscape maintenance service contracts employ native or adapted
   vegetation, water reduction methods for irrigation and pollution reduction techniques for
   fertilizers and pest control. Low-maintenance landscape materials are commonly utilized.
   Grounds and site furnishings are consistent with the Facilities Excellence Plan, are well
   maintained, well ordered and free of clutter and debris.
   A4.6.6. Aesthetics. Trees and plantings are commonly clustered in natural groupings, while
   formal designs are employed to emphasize important public spaces. Planting beds are well
   defined and bordered with edging or concrete mow strips. Landscape materials and plant
   pallets present a harmonious mix of color and texture that complement adjacent buildings.
 18                                                        AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012


   Trash receptacles, benches and other site furnishings are appropriate for the architectural
   context, are durable, have complementing color schemes and are appropriately placed within
   the public space.
A4.7. Fences, Screens and Enclosures
   A4.7.1. Sustainability, Energy and Environment. Recycled or renewable materials are
   commonly used. Materials are durable and require minimal maintenance.
   A4.7.2. AT/FP Programs and Force Protection Measures. Trash dumpster enclosures are
   sited outside required standoff distance. Fence design is in compliance with MIL HDBK
   1013/10, Design Guidelines for Security Fencing, Gates, Barriers, and Guard Facilities, and
   AFMAN 32-1071, Security Engineering.
   A4.7.3. Health, Safety and Welfare. Fences, screens and enclosures are structurally sound,
   well maintained and free of protrusions.
   A4.7.4. Efficiency. Trash dumpster enclosures (including loading docks and industrial
   storage areas) are sited to reduce visual clutter and impact on parking and streets. They are
   appropriately sized and are easily accessible. Equipment enclosures are adequately sized to
   allow necessary airflow and clearance space for maintenance.
   A4.7.5. Operations and Maintenance. Fence fabrics are well maintained and free of
   corrosion. Fence fabric is properly connected to fence posts. Masonry walls are free of alga
   and fungal growth and efflorescence. Mortar joints are properly maintained. Maintenance
   Service Contracts describe hedges to be properly pruned and are of appropriate height.
   A4.7.6. Aesthetics. Materials are compatible with the architectural theme and are durable.
   Integrally colored materials are commonly used. Colors are harmonious with the established
   installation color scheme. Trash dumpsters, equipment and storage yards are effectively
   screened to reduce visual clutter.
A4.8. Exterior Signage
   A4.8.1. AT/FP Programs and Force Protection Measures. Installation warning and
   controlled area signs conform to Security Forces requirements. Force Protection Condition
   signage is standardized and uniformly displayed and in accordance with AFI 10-
   245_AFSPC_Sup1, Air Force Antiterrorism (AT) Standards.
   A4.8.2. Health, Safety and Welfare. Traffic control devices are consistent with the Manual
   on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, are appropriately placed and are easily viewed. Traffic
   control devices are minimized to reduce confusion and clutter and do not provide conflicting
   information. Signs do not obstruct views of oncoming traffic.
   A4.8.3. Efficiency. Directional signage is well planned and provides efficient directions to
   important visitor destinations.
   A4.8.4. Operations and Maintenance. Replacement signs are consistent with other
   installation signage and provide a uniform professional image. Extraneous signage is
   promptly removed. Temporary signs are not placed on entrance doors and are consistent
   with the AFSPC Facilities Excellence Guide.
   A4.8.5. Aesthetics. Installation signage conforms to AFSPC and Air Force Sign Standards,
   is uniform in color and is well maintained. Signage materials are durable and require little
AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012                                                              19


   maintenance. Signage is compatible with the architectural theme of the installation, is
   consistent and provides a professional image for the installation. Signage is minimized to
   reduce visual clutter and is appropriately placed to be easily visible from the street.
A4.9. Architectural Design
   A4.9.1. Sustainability, Energy and Environment. New and renovated buildings qualify for
   LEED Silver certification and are well documented. Plumbing systems commonly employ
   waterless fixtures, water-saving fixtures or utilize gray water to reduce water consumption
   and wastewater production. Building systems are routinely and systematically commissioned
   to optimize performance to their design baseline. Light colored reflective roofing systems
   meeting Energy Star TM system standards are commonly utilized for increased energy
   efficiency. Energy consumption is routinely monitored and consumption is reduced beyond
   the requirements of ASHRAE90.1-2004, Energy Standards for Buildings. Construction
   materials commonly employ reused, recycled or rapidly renewable materials. Recycled
   materials meet or exceed the minimum requirements of the Environmental Protection
   Agency’s Comprehensive Procurement Guidelines. Use of certified wood products is
   common. Use of locally produced materials is also common. Construction waste is either
   recycled or reused on the site to reduce waste streams. Construction and demolition waste
   streams meet DoD and AFSPC goals for diverting non-hazardous solid waste from landfill
   disposal through reuse, recycling, composting, mulching or donation. Work areas have
   access to daylight and views to the outside. Indoor air quality is routinely monitored and
   sources of indoor pollutants are controlled. Adhesives, paints and other volatile substances
   are controlled to ensure good indoor air quality. Air and relative humidity are within the
   comfort zone.
   A4.9.2. AT/FP Programs and Force Protection Measures. Fenestration (windows and doors)
   commonly utilizes laminated glass to mitigate fragmentation in accordance with MIL HDBK
   1013/12, Evaluation and Selection Analysis of Security Glazing for Protection Against
   Ballistic, Bomb, and Forced Entry Tactics, and AFMAN 32-1071, Security Engineering.
   Structural systems are designed with redundancy and isolation to mitigate progressive
   collapse. Outside air intakes and roof areas are inaccessible to unauthorized personnel.
   Approaches to buildings are easily observed from interior work areas.
   A4.9.3. Health, Safety and Welfare. Facilities comply with model codes, Department of
   Defense and Air Force standards for their current use. Facilities comply with Uniform
   Federal Accessibility Standards and the Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility
   Guidelines. Accessibility is seamlessly integrated into the facility design. Life safety
   devices comply with Unified Facilities Criteria and National Fire Protection Association
   (NFPA) standards. Means of egress is provided in accordance with NFPA 101 Life Safety
   Code based on the current use of the facility. Restrooms comply with model building code
   requirements based on the current use of the facility. Buildings and components comply with
   seismic criteria contained in UFC 1-200-01 and other National Earthquake Hazard Reduction
   Program (NEHRP) requirements for life safety of occupants.
   A4.9.4. Efficiency. Facilities are appropriately designed to accommodate their designated
   function. Floor plans are commonly open and flexible, allowing for organizational change
   and change in use. Enclosed offices, conference rooms and workrooms do not obstruct
 20                                                          AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012


   access to daylight and views to the outdoors. Service areas are easily accessible. Functional
   organization of buildings is logical and easily understood from entrances.
   A4.9.5. Operations and Maintenance. Materials are durable and require little maintenance.
   Repair efforts match adjacent materials and comply with the Facilities Excellence Plan.
   Carpet color and material selections are consistent with the standards developed in the
   Facilities Excellence Plan. Cleaning and maintenance is performed in accordance with the
   manufacturer’s specifications. Building systems are properly maintained and functional.
   Ductwork is periodically cleaned and air diffusers and return air grills are free of dust and
   dirt. Luminaries in lighting fixtures are properly replaced and match in spectrum.
   Mechanical and electrical rooms are free of clutter. Materials and products are properly
   stored and well organized.
   A4.9.6. Aesthetics. An architectural style is established for the installation and is
   consistently implemented on every project. Variations in scale, massing, fenestration and
   detailing instill interest. Buildings are compatible without being monotonous. The
   architectural style responds to regional design influences and local historical precedents. The
   architectural style is appropriate for the local climate. Material and color palettes are firmly
   established. Use of color is well considered to provide interest and emphasize important
   building elements. Installation entry control facilities present an image of unobtrusive
   strength and elegance. Forms and materials convey permanence and an ability to withstand
   aggression. Barriers and other security devices are well integrated into the design of the
   entry gate and are inconspicuous.
A4.10. Interior Design
   A4.10.1. Sustainability, Energy and Environment. Workspaces have access to natural light
   and views to the outside. Materials commonly employ reused, recycled or rapidly renewable
   materials. Recycled materials meet or exceed the minimum requirements of the
   Environmental Protection Agency’s Comprehensive Procurement Guidelines. Use of
   certified wood products is common. Use of locally produced materials is also common.
   Construction waste is either recycled or reused on the site to reduce waste streams.
   Construction and demolition waste streams meet DoD and AFSPC goals for diverting non-
   hazardous solid waste from landfill disposal through reuse, recycling, composting, mulching
   or donation. Materials commonly meet requirements for low Volatile Organic Content for
   improved indoor air quality.
   A4.10.2. AT/FP Programs and Force Protection Measures. Facility entrances and circulation
   are designed to increase visibility of visitors and ensure timely evacuation during
   emergencies. Mailrooms are designed to reduce potential damage caused by mail bombs or
   contamination from chemical, biological or radiological agents in accordance with UFC 4-
   010-01, DoD Minimum AT/FP Standards for Buildings.
   A4.10.3. Health, Safety and Welfare. Facilities comply with Uniform Federal Accessibility
   Standards and the Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines. Accessibility is
   seamlessly integrated into the facility design. Means of egress is provided in accordance
   with NFPA 101 Life Safety Code based on the current use of the facility.
AFSPCI 32-1001 30 January 2012                                                                 21


   A4.10.4. Efficiency. Spaces are well organized, appropriately sized and make the best use
   of available space. Facilities utilize open office concepts to provide flexibility for future
   organizational change, or change in function.
   A4.10.5. Operations and Maintenance. Craftsmen are familiar with the material and quality
   standards cited in the Facilities Excellence Plan. All in-house repairs match existing adjacent
   finishes to provide a consistent appearance. Maintenance and repair products employ low-
   emitting materials for improved indoor air quality. Use of recycled content materials, locally
   produced materials or rapidly renewable materials to reduce environmental impact are
   common practice. Materials with extended life cycles to reduce wear and the need for
   frequent replacement are commonly utilized. Janitorial services are in accordance with the
   care instructions provided by product manufacturers. Installation has developed a Green
   Housekeeping (cleaning and maintenance program using nontoxic, low-VOC cleaning
   products) policy for the installation to improve indoor air quality, reduce waste and reduce
   pollutants. Public spaces and work areas are well organized and make the best use of
   available space. All areas are clean, well maintained and clear of extraneous material.
   Finishes, furnishings and accessories comply with the Facilities Excellence Plan and present
   a harmonious and professional environment. Safety devices are integrated into the overall
   design of the work environment. Signage, bulletin boards and directories comply with Air
   Force Sign Standards, are neatly arranged and current. Recycling containers are
   conveniently located and integrated into the design of the workspace.
   A4.10.6. Aesthetics. Finishes, fixtures, furnishings and artwork are well coordinated and are
   appropriate in color and style to present a harmonious and professional environment.
   Materials are well maintained and are clean. Materials and furnishings are functional and
   appropriate for the space. Lighting is of an appropriate type and style for the function of the
   space. Color rendition and placement enhance the environment. Spaces are well organized
   and free of extraneous items and clutter. Adequate interior public spaces are provided to
   serve the needs of group functions, reception, relaxation and recreation and as a transition to
   the outside.
