BY ORDER OF THE                                AIR FORCE TACTICS, TECHNIQUES, AND
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                          PROCEDURES 3-42.7
                                                                         24 AUGUST 2001
                                                         Certified Current, 10 October 2013
                                                                          Tactical Doctrine

                                                 AEROSPACE MEDICAL CONTINGENCY
                                                         GROUND SUPPORT SYSTEM


NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/SG-Doctrine (Major Stephanie D. Smith)                 Certified by: HQ AFDC/CC
                                                                     (Maj Gen Lance L. Smith)
                                                                                       Pages: 37
                                                                                  Distribution: F


PURPOSE: The Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-42 series of
publications is the primary reference for medical combat support capability. This document,
AFTTP 3-42.7, provides an overview of the Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support
System. In August 1998, the Air Force Chief of Staff directed the Air Force transition to the
concept of an Expeditionary Aerospace Force (EAF). The Air Force Surgeon General tasked the
Air Combat Command Surgeon to lead the development of an expeditionary medical support
capability and the next generation Air Force Theater Hospital (AFTH). This Aerospace Medical
Contingency Ground Support System tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP) document
describes the manner in which the Air Force Medical Service (AFMS) supports aerospace
expeditionary force (AEF) forces.

APPLICATION: This publication applies to all Air Force military and civilian personnel
(including Air Force Reserve Command [AFRC] and Air National Guard [ANG] units and
members). The doctrine in this document is authoritative but not directive.

SCOPE: The AFMS must be ready and capable of providing required medical support to the
warfighters no matter the scenario. Potential deployments include the full spectrum of deployed
contingencies. A robust medical war reserve materiel (WRM) program is essential to meeting
the logistics requirements of this capability. This system begins with an initial force package
known as the squadron medical element (SME) progressing to the fully developed stage of the
mature AFTH where significant specialty care capability and intensive care will be available. It
is critical that the AFMS continue to deliver essential care targeted towards optimizing
warfighter performance.
2                                                                                       AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


                                                                                                                                      Page
Chapter 1—AEROSPACE MEDICAL CONTINGENCY GROUND SUPPORT
          SYSTEM                                                                                                                         4

    1.1 Mission.......................................................................................................................... 4
    1.2 Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System .......................................... 5
    1.3 Chemical and Biological Threat ................................................................................... 7

Chapter 2—ORGANIZATIONS, ROLES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                     8

    2.1 Air Force Surgeon General ...........................................................................................            8
    2.2 Aerospace Expeditionary Force Center (AEFC) ..........................................................                           8
    2.3 Major Commands..........................................................................................................         8
    2.4 Deployed Medical Commander (DMC) or Senior Medical Officer (SMO).................                                                9

Chapter 3—OPERATIONS                                                                                                                   10

    3.1     Aerospace Expeditionary Force (AEF).........................................................................10
    3.2     Deployment—Air Force Theater Hospital (AFTH) Modularization Capability ..........11
    3.3     Employment—Casualty Care and Management...........................................................13
    3.4     Redeployment and Reconstitution Phases ....................................................................16
    3.5     Air Force Medical Service (AFMS) Support in Humanitarian Operations ..................16
    3.6     AFMS Support in Major Theater War (MTW).............................................................16

Chapter 4—COMMAND, CONTROL, COMMUNICATIONS, AND
          COMPUTERS                                                                                                                    18

    4.1 Command, Control, Communications, and Computers (C4)........................................18
    4.2 Command and Control..................................................................................................18
    4.3 Communications ...........................................................................................................19
    4.4 Systems .........................................................................................................................20
    4.5 Intelligence, National Agencies, and Space Support ....................................................22

Chapter 5—PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS                                                                                                      24

    5.1 Force Integration and Interoperability ..........................................................................24
    5.2 Integration and Interoperability With Other Systems...................................................24
    5.3 Medical Planners...........................................................................................................24
    5.4 Security, Medical Resource Protection, and Medical Logistics ...................................25

Chapter 6—EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                                                                       28

    6.1 Education Programs ......................................................................................................28
    6.2 Expeditionary Medical Support (EMEDS)/AFTH Training.........................................28
    6.3 Forms Prescribed ..........................................................................................................31
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                               3


Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
             INFORMATION                             32

Attachment 2—LEVELS OF CARE                          36
4                                                                                 AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


                                                     FIGURES
                                                                                                                                  Page
Figure 1.1   Depicts the Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System
             Components and the Notional Building Block Response (Based on
             Contingency Requirements) Covering the High Vulnerability Periods (The
             Red Wedge) ............................................................................................................ 8
Figure 3.1   The Red Wedge Depicts Periods of Maximum Vulnerability ................................11
Figure 4.1   Depicts an Example of Network Configuration......................................................22
Figure 6.1   Depicts AEF Rotation Schedule/3-Month Blocks ..................................................31
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                                         5


                                           Chapter 1

      AEROSPACE MEDICAL CONTINGENCY GROUND SUPPORT SYSTEM

1.1. Mission.

   1.1.1. The Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System represents the
   cornerstone of medical support to AEF forces deployed in any worldwide contingency. This
   system is composed of unit type code (UTC) building blocks that provide personnel and
   equipment to meet specific operational requirements. The Aerospace Medical Contingency
   Ground Support System begins with squadron medical elements (SMEs), independent duty
   medical technicians (IDMTs), and ends with a 100+bed Air Force Theater Hospital (AFTH)
   facility.

   1.1.2. The mission of the AFMS Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System is
   to rapidly deploy and provide forward stabilization, primary care, dental services, force
   health protection, and to prepare for aeromedical evacuation of aerospace expeditionary
   forces or civilian casualties, as appropriate. This system optimizes warfighter performance
   by delivering essential care targeted to maximize unit effectiveness, readiness, and morale
   with minimal cost in terms of weight, cube, lift, and forward footprint.

   1.1.3. Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System components deploy in
   various combinations to support a specific theater/regional population size and deployment
   scenario. Medical support rapidly deploys in a modular, incremental, and interoperable
   manner, using components as building blocks to support the contingency. There are a variety
   of specialty modules that may be used to match the scenario’s requirements. Additionally,
   personnel and equipment packages may be tailored, replicated, or combined with previously
   deployed UTCs to reach the desired capability.

   1.1.4. The medical capability required at each bed-down location is determined by expected
   casualty rates, casualty types, population at risk (PAR), evacuation policy, evacuation delay,
   and evacuation distances. Geographical positioning of medical capability, which minimizes
   the time from point of injury to treatment, is essential. Medical planners must specifically
   consider requirements for the following when determining the proper medical support
   configuration for each bed-down location: emergency room, inpatient beds, operating room
   tables, intensive care beds, primary care, mental health, dental care, and patient
   transportation requirements. Each of these factors varies, sometimes driving different
   requirements based on projected casualty rates. Additionally, deployed medical facilities
   normally do not provide reconstructive surgery or rehabilitative services unless supporting a
   multinational force or humanitarian operation.

   1.1.5. Components of the Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System are
   utilized to provide essential medical/dental care, deferring definitive care as dictated by
   theater medical concept of operations (CONOPS). Fixed, mature AFTH facilities in
   supporting theaters receive patients from deployed medical facilities where essential
   medical/dental care has been rendered. Mature AFTHs are defined as having a complete set
6                                                              AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


    of capabilities represented by specialty UTCs as well as deployable medical teams with their
    corresponding UTCs. These mature AFTHs provide a robust capability much different than
    a 50-bed AFTH with no augmentation UTCs.

1.2. Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System.

    1.2.1. The Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System is composed of UTC
    building blocks that provide personnel and equipment to meet specific operational
    requirements. These UTCs enable the AFTH to expand in modules to meet the full spectrum
    of theater requirements to include significant specialty care (see Figure 1.1). These
    capabilities will be utilized to provide essential care, deferring definitive care to the
    continental United States (CONUS) or supporting theaters.

    1.2.2. The following comprise the Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System:

       1.2.2.1. Squadron Medical Elements (SMEs). SMEs provide limited outpatient care,
       clinical care, emergency medical care (trauma and cardiac stabilization), aerospace
       medicine support, and in-flight emergency coverage to deployed flying units in a myriad
       of operations with a PAR of 1-500. SMEs collect, assess, and provide medical
       intelligence information and recommend strategies to the deployed commander to reduce
       and/or prevent aerospace, occupational, environmental, and public health risk factors
       from having a detrimental impact on mission effectiveness.

       1.2.2.2. Independent Duty Medical Technicians (IDMTs). The capabilities of IDMTs
       assigned to line units are very similar to those found in Module 1 of Expeditionary
       Medical Support (EMEDS) Basic, in that the IDMT provides aerospace medicine
       support, primary care, initial site survey, and limited environmental monitoring for water
       and food safety, field sanitation, pest/vector control, sewage, and heat stress to units in a
       myriad of operations with a PAR of 100-250.

       1.2.2.3. EMEDS/AFTH. The role of EMEDS/AFTH is to provide individual bed-down
       and theater-level medical services for deployed forces or select population groups within
       the entire spectrum of military operations. EMEDS/AFTHs are modular packages by
       design and are tailored to meet theater commander in chief (CINC) requirements. As the
       US Air Force provides timely and effective combat forces to combatant commanders in
       support of theater objectives, EMEDS/AFTHs support those operations by providing a
       modular and flexible theater hospitalization capability. The EMEDS/AFTH is divided
       into three increments: EMEDS Basic, EMEDS+10 Bed AFTH, and EMEDS+25 Bed
       AFTH.

             1.2.2.3.1. EMEDS Basic.

                  1.2.2.3.1.1. EMEDS Basic provides the operational support required to
                  provide medical care in a myriad of operations with a PAR of 1-2000.
                  EMEDS Basic is currently comprised of two modules.
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                                    7


                  1.2.2.3.1.1.1. Module 1—Small Portable Expeditionary Aeromedical
                  Rapid Response (SPEARR) team. The leading edge of the EMEDS
                  Basic is the SPEARR team. The SPEARR team fits the definition of
                  Level 2 (Casualty Collection and Forward Resuscitative Surgery) health
                  service support (HSS) capability. (See Attachment 2, Levels of Care, for
                  definition.) The SPEARR team provides a rapid response, extremely
                  mobile, forward resuscitative, and preventive medicine and environmental
                  health medical capability. The team is deployable in two modes,
                  completely man-portable or with a sling loadable (one pallet equivalent)
                  trailer. Supplies and equipment are extremely limited. Prior to patient
                  evacuation, it is essential that en route patient supplies and equipment are
                  coordinated with aeromedical evacuation (AE) personnel.

                  1.2.2.3.1.1.2. Module 2. Module 2 consists of additional personnel,
                  supplies, and infrastructure. These additional personnel augment the
                  previously deployed SPEARR team. Deployment of Module 2 is driven
                  by mission requirements.

              1.2.2.3.1.2. In total, EMEDS Basic provides Level 2 (Casualty Collection and
              Forward Resuscitative Surgery) capability. Specifically, it provides forward
              stabilization, primary care, dental services, force health protection, and
              prepares patients for aeromedical evacuation. EMEDS Basic has four holding
              beds. Definitive medical/dental care is deferred to CONUS or supporting
              theaters. EMEDS Basic deploys with 7 days of supplies. Additional supply
              pallet UTCs can be deployed simultaneously or as needed to fit CINC
              operational requirements. Equipment can be prepositioned or incrementally
              deployed. Prior to patient evacuation, it is essential that en route patient
              supplies and equipment are coordinated with AE personnel.

              1.2.2.3.1.3. EMEDS Basic must be supported by Expeditionary Combat
              Support (ECS) to be fully functional. This support includes: appropriate
              vehicle of opportunity that can be converted to a patient transport vehicle (the
              EMEDS allowance standard [AS] includes supplies and equipment to modify
              the vehicle of opportunity); a 10K forklift; transportation to move [two 463L]
              pallets from airfield to field site; and an appropriate vehicle capable of towing
              a 6,000-pound trailer. The sling loadable EMEDS Basic trailer is equipped
              with both military and commercial style hitches.

         1.2.2.3.2. EMEDS+10 Bed AFTH and EMEDS+25 Bed AFTH. EMEDS+10/25
         bed AFTH provides a Level 3 (Theater Hospital) HSS capability. These enhanced
         clinical capabilities are historically found in a medical treatment facility (MTF)
         located in a lower-level threat environment. These AFTHs are staffed and equipped
         to provide a high level of resuscitation, initial wound surgery, and post-operative
         treatment. This level of care is the first step toward restoration of functional health,
         as compared to procedures that stabilize a condition to prolong life.
8                                                                               AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


                               1.2.2.3.2.1. EMEDS+10 provides medical/dental care in a myriad of
                               operations with a PAR of 2000-3000. Included in this capability are 10
                               inpatient beds. EMEDS+10 deploys with 7 days of supplies. Equipment is
                               either prepositioned or incrementally deployed. Additional supply pallet
                               UTCs can be deployed simultaneously or as needed to fit CINC operational
                               requirements.

                               1.2.2.3.2.2. EMEDS+25 provides medical/dental care in a myriad of
                               operations with a PAR of 3000-5000. Included in this capability are 25
                               inpatient beds (cumulative). EMEDS+25 deploys with 7 days of supplies.
                               Additional supply pallet UTCs can be deployed simultaneously or as needed
                               to fit CINC operational requirements. Equipment is either prepositioned or
                               incrementally deployed.


Figure 1.1. Depicts the Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System
Components and the Notional Building Block Response (Based on Contingency
Requirements) Covering the High Vulnerability Periods (The Red Wedge)




                                                                                                    AFTH
        UNITS OF CAPABILITY




                                                                                           EMEDS
                                                                                            +25

                                                                               EMEDS
                                                                                +10                 AFTH


                                                                                           EM EDS
                                                                SPEARR                      +25
                                                                               EMEDS
                                                                                + 10                AFTH
                                                                EMEDS
                                                      ECATT
                                                                B A S IC
                                                                               EMEDS       EM EDS
                                     ID M T   PCM                                                   AFTH
                                                                 EM EDS                     +25
                                              T eam   M FST                     +10
                                                                 B A S IC
                              SM E    P AM


                                               T IM E / P O P U L A T IO N / T H R E A T



1.3. Chemical and Biological Threat. Until collective protection for the EMEDS portion of
the AFTH system is fielded, the EMEDS CONOPS assumes it will operate in a low chemical
and biological warfare (CBW) threat environment. Personnel required to staff decontamination
(DECON) teams, patient retrieval teams, and biological assessment teams are not embedded in
the EMEDS personnel matrix. Higher threat scenarios will require additional specialized
medical equipment as well as specially trained and equipped personnel (provided by medical
nuclear, biological, and chemical [NBC] UTCs).
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                                        9


                                           Chapter 2

                 ORGANIZATIONS, ROLES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Air Force Surgeon General.

   2.1.1. The Air Force Surgeon General (HQ USAF/SG) provides leadership and guidance to
   ensure a vital readiness posture is maintained through prevention oriented activities focused
   on population health and Air Force medicine. The Surgeon General is responsible for
   coordinating and aligning health care programs and services to integrate with other Services
   and the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs (OASD-HA). This
   supports a Department of Defense (DOD) enterprise-wide health care system.

   2.1.2. The office of the Air Force SG establishes policies to foster, advocate, and support
   research and development and equipment acquisition. Additionally, the office of the Air
   Force SG establishes medical training guidelines; develops, coordinates, and publishes all
   program policy and readiness; and ensures the proper infrastructure and the appropriate mix
   of medical personnel are available.

2.2. Aerospace Expeditionary Force Center (AEFC).

   2.2.1. The AEFC is a cross-functional, centralized management team designed to facilitate
   EAF operations that include AEF force package preparation for contingency steady state
   rotations and on-call aerospace expeditionary wing (AEW) operational requirements. The
   AEFC works closely with the Air Staff, major commands (MAJCOMs), and Air Force
   components to integrate trained aerospace forces to meet theater CINC’s requirements across
   the full spectrum of operations.

   2.2.2. The AEFC is a Chief of Staff, United States Air Force (CSAF)-designated authority
   and has direct liaison authorized (DIRLAUTH) across all MAJCOMs, Air Force
   components, and AEF/AEW scheduled units to provide readiness oversight and to integrate
   required planning and sourcing processes. The AEFC does not have direct tasking authority.
   Tasking authority remains with MAJCOMs and Air Force components.

   2.2.3. The AEFC provides continuity during crisis action planning, escalation to surge, or
   full-scale major theater war (MTW) operations. The AEFC guides all aspects of AEF/AEW
   planning to include sourcing and scheduling forces (UTCs/individuals), refining the time-
   phased force and deployment data (TPFDD), preparing the Deployment Requirements
   Manning Document (DRMD), assessing available forces, and monitoring unit readiness
   status.

2.3. Major Commands.

   2.3.1. The Air Force organizes, trains, and equips air forces through MAJCOMs. The
   MAJCOMs implement DOD, OASD-HA, CSAF and HQ USAF/SG policies. They provide
10                                                            AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


     guidance and oversight for all readiness programs throughout their command. The
     MAJCOMs provide forces to combatant commands for employment.

     2.3.2. Each MAJCOM Surgeon General is responsible for planning and executing health
     services operations and training to support wartime or contingency operations. Command
     Surgeons maintain Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging (MEFPAK) System
     responsibility for Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System UTCs assigned to
     their MAJCOM. HQ Air Combat Command (ACC)/SG serves as the medical consultant for
     technical guidance and deliberate planning for AFMS contingency support operations.
     Component commands have responsibility for deliberate plans.

2.4. Deployed Medical Commander (DMC) or Senior Medical Officer (SMO).

     2.4.1. The AEW commander has a medical group commander on staff. The medical group
     commander is responsible for ensuring all health service assets are trained, equipped, and
     ready to support (a total or partial) wing deployment.

     2.4.2. The wing/group/squadron commanders and the DMC/SMO are ultimately responsible
     for having the right personnel assigned, equipped, and trained to perform their assigned
     functions when deployed as part of an expeditionary medical support force package. Prior to
     deployment, the deploying medical commander ensures agile combat support for deployed
     medical assets has been coordinated with appropriate units/agencies at the deployed location.
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                                       11


                                            Chapter 3

                                         OPERATIONS

3.1. Aerospace Expeditionary Force (AEF).

   3.1.1. An AEF is an organizational structure composed of force packages of capabilities that
   provide warfighting CINCs with rapid and responsive aerospace power. These force
   packages, together with their support and command and control (C2) elements, are tailored to
   meet specific needs across the spectrum of response options and will deploy within an
   Aerospace Expeditionary Task Force (AETF) as aerospace expeditionary wings (AEWs),
   groups (AEGs), or squadrons (AESs). Medical UTCs assigned to an AEF deploy in
   accordance with (IAW) mission requirements.

   3.1.2. Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System components deploy in
   various combinations to support a specific theater/regional population size, deployment
   scenario, and casualty rate (combat, disease and nonbattle injury [DNBI], and other).
   Personnel and equipment packages may be tailored, replicated, or combined with previously
   deployed UTCs to reach the desired capability effect. This supports the philosophy of
   ensuring essential medical capability is on the first plane in and the last plane out.

Figure 3.1. The Red Wedge Depicts Periods of Maximum Vulnerability

                                     “The Red Wedge”


                          Sustained Operations
   Ramp Up                                                                        Ramp Down

Vulnerable                                                                         Vulnerable

   3.1.3. Figure 3.1 illustrates how we envision the military situation unfolding. The “red
   wedge” ramp up phase corresponds with installation deployment and build-up activities. It is
   during this period that military forces are at high risk for food/water/sanitation, DNBI, injury,
   industrial or occupational accidents, and terrorist attacks. During sustained operations, the
   Air Force Theater Hospital (AFTH) should be in place.

   3.1.4. Doctrinally, the AFMS will provide a tiered and tailored medical capability that is
   driven by mission, threat scenario, airlift availability, and population at risk. The concept is
   to flow essential medical capability in on the first aircraft. As the operation expands, and as
   airlift becomes available, additional medical capability is brought in, as required.
12                                                               AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


        3.1.4.1. Medical Global Reach Laydown (MGRL) teams will deploy with air mobility
        forces (e.g., tanker airlift control elements [TALCEs]) in the early stages of a campaign
        to establish the air bridge and aerial ports of delivery in theater. The MGRL teams
        consist of personnel and equipment required to provide medical care for injuries and
        illness and provide preventive medical care reducing risk of a catastrophic/detrimental
        event that could have an impact on mission effectiveness. The team also recommends
        strategies to TALCEs and mobility support team (MST) commanders for
        countermeasures against environmental and physiological stressors, in order to enhance
        mission effectiveness. Support is normally to deployed TALCE and MST operations and
        is under the operational control (OPCON) of HQ Air Mobility Command (AMC)/tanker
        airlift control center (TACC). These assets usually deploy in advance of deployment
        forces and are normally withdrawn after deployed medical infrastructure is in place.

        3.1.4.2. The SMEs and IDMTs may deploy with their assigned squadrons. If deployed,
        they may be the first medics on the ground and the most forward deployed with or
        without their air transportable clinic (ATC).

        3.1.4.3. The SPEARR team (EMEDS Basic Module 1) should arrive on the first aircraft.
        This 10-person team is capable of deploying within 2 hours of initial mission notification.
        This rapid response time is site specific and is a “best case” estimate for SPEARR team
        response. The 2-hour response time is dependent on the collocation of personnel and
        equipment and on a team standing “on-call” (or “Bravo”) alert at all times. EMEDS
        Basic Module 2 personnel and equipment depart with the bulk of the AEF or deployed
        force. In certain contingency operations the entire EMEDS Basic package may deploy at
        the same time as a single unit. Additional EMEDS/AFTH increments are deployed based
        on the CINC requirements. (See Figure 1.1.)

     3.1.5. The concept works in reverse for the other red wedge, the ramp down phase, which
     typifies installation redeployment activities. Medical capability would ramp down at a
     similar rate as the installation taking into account the threat scenario and the population at
     risk, ensuring the availability of essential medical capability.

3.2. Deployment—Air Force Theater Hospital (AFTH) Modularization Capability.

     3.2.1. Squadron Medical Elements (SMEs). Each 3-member SME deploys with their
     assigned squadron to provide limited outpatient care, clinical care, emergency medical care
     (trauma and cardiac stabilization), aerospace medicine support, and in-flight emergency
     coverage to deployed flying units with a PAR of 1-500. This team deploys with limited
     supplies and requires both a shelter (building of opportunity, tent, etc.) and a vehicle of
     opportunity (which is capable of transporting patients on litters and responding to in-flight
     emergencies). Based on CINC requirements, an ATC may be deployed to support an SME.
     For a comprehensive description of SME capabilities refer to the SME CONOPS.

     3.2.2. Air Transportable Clinic (ATC). An air transportable clinic is one 463L pallet of
     equipment and supplies that can be prepositioned or deployed simultaneously with the SME
     to support deployed flying units with a PAR of 300-500. A minimum of a 10K forklift will
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                                     13


  be needed to transport the pallet from the airfield to the designated site. A comprehensive
  description of ATC capabilities is in the ATC CONOPS.

  3.2.3. Independent Duty Medical Technicians (IDMTs). IDMTs deploy with their
  assigned squadrons (e.g., RED HORSE, air control, reconnaissance, EMEDS/AFTH), as well
  as augment previously deployed medical assets. They deploy to either fixed facilities or bare
  base sites. When deployed to a bare base site, the IDMT will require both a vehicle and a
  shelter of opportunity to support a myriad of operations with a PAR of 100-250. Based on
  CINC requirements, an ATC can be deployed to meet mission requirements. A
  comprehensive description of IDMT missions, requirements, training, and other capabilities
  is in AFI 44-103, IDMT Program/Medical Support for Mobile Medical Units
  (MMUs)/Remote Sites.

  3.2.4. EMEDS Basic (also referred to as EMEDS/AFTH 1st Increment). EMEDS Basic
  is first of three increments of the EMEDS/AFTH system. The 25 personnel, (which includes
  the 10-person SPEARR team) two 463L pallets of equipment, and one 6,000-pound trailer
  can be transported by one C-130 aircraft.

     3.2.4.1. Module 1—SPEARR Team. Module 1 is comprised of ten medics from four
     UTCs: the preventive aerospace medicine (PAM) advanced echelon (ADVON) team, the
     mobile field surgical team, the expeditionary critical care team, and the expanded
     capability and infrastructure module. If the SPEARR team deploys in its man-portable
     mode they will require a shelter of opportunity to house patient care operations. When
     the SPEARR team deploys with the expanded capability and infrastructure module,
     patient care tentage is included. The expanded capability and infrastructure module is a
     6,000-pound, sling-loadable trailer that requires appropriate transportation to move it
     from the airfield to the field site. Once at the contingency site, the SPEARR team
     requires at least one, preferably two, vehicles of opportunity that can be converted into
     patient transport vehicles.

     3.2.4.2. Module 2. Module 2 consists of the remaining 15 personnel assigned to the
     EMEDS Basic UTCs and two 463L pallets of supplies and infrastructure. These teams
     arrive as various deployment scenarios dictate to augment the previously deployed
     SPEARR team. Transportation requirements include a 10K forklift and appropriate
     vehicle to transport two 463L pallets from the airfield to the field site. Patient
     transportation will be accomplished by utilizing the vehicle(s) of opportunity provided to
     Module 1.

     3.2.4.3. Full Operational Capability (FOC) for EMEDS Basic. FOC for EMEDS
     Basic is attained when facility and clinical functional areas (aerospace medicine,
     preventive medicine, dental, primary care, command and control, emergency care, critical
     care, and surgical capability) are fully established, normally within 12 hours. As a
     minimum, the following ECS is required during this period: electrical/ground power
     equipment, communications, fuel and potable water delivery, transportation, security, fire
     protection, all-terrain forklift, billeting, messing, and sanitary waste system. For a
14                                                             AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


        comprehensive description of base operating support (BOS) requirements for EMEDS
        Basic refer to the EMEDS/AFTH CONOPS.

     3.2.5. EMEDS+10 Bed AFTH (also referred to as EMEDS/AFTH 2nd Increment) and
     EMEDS+25 Bed AFTH (also referred to as EMEDS/AFTH 3rd Increment).

        3.2.5.1. EMEDS+10 rapidly augments EMEDS Basic and provides 10 inpatient beds,
        which increases capacity and diagnostic capability but maintains a similar scope of care
        provided by EMEDS Basic. The EMEDS+10 increment adds 31 people and 7 pallets of
        supplies and infrastructure, one water buffalo, and one ambulance. For a comprehensive
        description of the EMEDS/AFTH 2nd increment capability and BOS requirements, refer
        to the EMEDS/AFTH CONOPS.

        3.2.5.2. EMEDS+25 increases inpatient capacity to 25 beds as well as increasing the
        scope of care. The EMEDS+25 increment adds 29 people and 4 pallets of supplies and
        infrastructure and an additional ambulance. For a comprehensive description of the
        EMEDS/AFTH 3rd increment capability and BOS requirements, refer to the
        EMEDS/AFTH CONOPS.

        3.2.5.3. Some theaters may require medical facilities with subspecialty care and large
        numbers of inpatient beds for locations where no host nation fixed facility support exists.
        In this case, it is possible to expand in-place resources with air transportable specialty
        modules to any capacity required to meet US Air Force/joint theater requirements.

        3.2.5.4. The EMEDS+10 increment adds 31 people (for a total of 56 personnel) and
        seven 463L pallets of supplies and infrastructure, one water buffalo and one ambulance to
        the EMEDS Basic package. Included in these 7 pallets are two 100-kilowatt mobile
        electric power (MEP-7) generators. The EMEDS+25 increment adds another 29 people
        (for a total of 85 personnel), four 463L pallets of supplies, and infrastructure and one
        ambulance. FOC for the 2nd and 3rd increments is expected within 24 hours following
        arrival at the employment location.

        3.2.5.5. The entire SPEARR team through EMEDS+25 bed AFTH assemblage has 85-
        personnel, thirteen 463L pallets, one 6,000-pound trailer, one water buffalo, and two
        ambulances. The sling-loadable trailer and the water buffalo require a vehicle/aircraft of
        opportunity to move them from the flight line to the field site. The trailer is equipped
        with both a military and a civilian style hitch.

3.3. Employment—Casualty Care and Management. In general, casualties are transferred
from the deployed location (from less capable facilities and from components at forward
locations [e.g., special operations forces (SOF), ATCs]) to an EMEDS/AFTH facility and then to
the next appropriate level of care (Attachment 2). Further evacuation is determined by theater
evacuation policies, i.e., casualties not likely to be returned to duty are evacuated IAW theater
evacuation policy when stabilized. A stabilized patient is defined as: airway secured,
hemorrhage controlled, treated shock, and immobilized fractures.
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                                   15


  3.3.1. Squadron Medical Elements (SME)―Scope of Care. The SME provides limited
  outpatient care, clinical care, emergency medical care (trauma and cardiac stabilization),
  aerospace medicine support, and in-flight emergency coverage to deployed flying units in a
  myriad of operations with a PAR of 1-500. SMEs collect, assess, and provide medical
  intelligence information. They also recommend to the deployed commander strategies to
  reduce and/or prevent aerospace, occupational, environmental, and public health risk factors
  from having a detrimental impact on mission effectiveness. ATCs provide only limited
  holding capability of less than 24 hours. Timely and rapid aeromedical evacuation support is
  critical to mission success.

  3.3.2. Independent Duty Medical Technicians (IDMTs)―Scope of Care.

     3.3.2.1. The capabilities of IDMTs assigned to line units are very similar to those found
     in Module 1 of EMEDS Basic. The main role of the IDMT is to provide aerospace
     medicine support, primary care, first aid, initial site survey, and limited environmental
     monitoring for water and food safety, field sanitation, pest/vector control, sewage, and
     heat stress to small (i.e., PAR of 300-500) deployed units at locations where a physician
     may not be available. IDMTs may also be used as physician extenders.

     3.3.2.2. IDMTs perform triage, initial airway management to include endotracheal
     intubation and cricothyroidotomy, control of hemorrhage, basic splinting without
     diagnostic imaging diagnosis, intravenous fluid resuscitation, and oral re-hydration, basic
     life support capabilities with limited advanced life support to include defibrillation and
     initial trauma stabilization to include chest tube placement and/or needle thoracentesis.

     3.3.2.3. Patients requiring treatment beyond the capabilities of the IDMT and SME are
     transported to the nearest EMEDS/AFTH facility or local host medical treatment facility
     (HMTF) for further treatment and/or evacuation using organically assigned field
     ambulances or other vehicles of opportunity. For a comprehensive description of IDMT
     missions, requirements, training, and other capabilities refer to AFI 44-103, IDMT
     Program/Medical Support for Mobile Medical Units (MMUs)/Remote Sites.

  3.3.3. Small Portable Expeditionary Aeromedical Rapid Response (SPEARR) Team―
  Scope of Care.

     3.3.3.1. The SPEARR team module is a highly mobile, rapid response team. Medical
     capability includes advanced resuscitative procedures as well as management of acute
     and chronic medical problems to support a wide spectrum of military missions.

     3.3.3.2. The mission of the SPEARR team is to provide force health protection for up to
     500 disaster or contingency support personnel, or a 500 PAR, for an initial period of 5 to
     7 days. Sustainment or resupply capability (10-day resupply consistent with other
     EMEDS modules) ensures continued medical care and force health protection, when
     required. The PAR may be comprised of all US military personnel or include a
     combination of international military and civilian personnel in a coalition operation.
16                                                             AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


        3.3.3.3. The scope of care includes public health/preventive medicine, flight medicine,
        environmental health, primary care, emergency medicine, emergency surgery,
        perioperative care, critical care stabilization, patient preparation for aeromedical
        transport, and aeromedical evacuation coordination/communication. The assumption is
        that the supported force will have received some form of predeployment health screening,
        immunizations, and disease prophylaxis appropriate to the theater of operations.

     3.3.4. EMEDS Basic―Scope of Care.

        3.3.4.1. EMEDS Basic provides 24-hour sick call and emergency medical/dental care
        that includes the following capabilities: medical C2, preventive medicine, trauma
        resuscitation and stabilization, limited general and orthopedic surgery, critical care,
        primary care, dental care, to include limited dental stabilization, aeromedical evacuation
        coordination, aerospace medicine, urgent care, and limited ancillary services to support
        deployment of 1-2000 AEF personnel or contingency/disaster support personnel. The
        complete 25-person EMEDS Basic force package is capable of providing care for 7 days
        in an austere environment without resupply. In most operations the PAR represents AEF
        personnel only. For a comprehensive description of EMEDS Basic capabilities refer to
        the EMEDS/AFTH CONOPs.

        3.3.4.2. EMEDS Basic does not have dedicated inpatient beds. EMEDS Basic is
        equipped with 4 beds with a holding capacity of less than 24 hours, unless driven to
        short-term deviations by operational issues. It is essential that urgent patients be
        evacuated within 12 hours of notification. Patient movement within 24-hours for non-
        urgent patients is critical to mission success. Extremely limited blood storage exists: type
        O blood only, and there is limited capability for emergency blood collection/transfusion.
        For information on blood support operations, refer to AFTTP 3-42.8, Medical Logistics
        and Blood Support Operations.

     3.3.5. EMEDS+10 Bed AFTH (also referred to as EMEDS/AFTH 2nd Increment)―
     Scope of Care. This increment provides prevention, acute intervention, and primary care to
     support deployment of 2000-3000 worldwide-qualified personnel. The 56-person
     EMEDS+10 bed AFTH force package is capable of providing medical/dental care for seven
     days in an austere environment without re-supply. The PAR represents AEF personnel only.
     The 10 beds provide inpatient capability consistent with theater evacuation policy. The core
     infrastructure provides additional ancillary support, medical equipment maintenance and
     facility management. Extremely limited blood storage exists with a limited capability for
     emergency blood collection/transfusion.

     3.3.6. EMEDS+25 Bed AFTH (also referred to as EMEDS/AFTH 3rd Increment)―
     Scope of Care. This increment provides prevention, acute intervention, and primary care to
     support deployment of 3000-5000 worldwide-qualified personnel. A 25-inpatient bed
     capability supports the theater evacuation policy and AFFOR Surgeon’s concept of
     operations. EMEDS+25 bed AFTH provides the core infrastructure for specialty UTCs (e.g.,
     critical care, gynecology, otolaryngology, neurosurgery, oral surgery, ophthalmology,
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                                      17


   thoracic/vascular surgery, urology, mental health rapid response, and combat stress
   management).

3.4. Redeployment and Reconstitution Phases.

   3.4.1. Redeployment of Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System
   components mirrors the shrinking operation location/base population and base roll-up.
   Deployed medical personnel and equipment depart with the bulk of the AEF or deployed
   force. The SPEARR team (EMEDS Basic, Module 1) maintains emergency medical and
   surgical capability up to 1 hour prior to their redeployment and departs on one of the last
   aircraft. Resupply is coordinated through the sustaining base and Air Force Medical
   Logistics Operations Center (see AFTTP 3-42.8, Medical Logistics and Blood Support
   Operations for additional information). The deployed system will be reconstituted prior to
   packing unless directed otherwise.

   3.4.2. The SMEs and IDMTs redeploy with their assigned squadrons. They are usually the
   last medics on the ground with or without their ATC. Reconstitution occurs IAW the SME
   CONOPS.

3.5. Air Force Medical Service (AFMS) Support in Humanitarian Operations.

   3.5.1. The spectrum of medical support provided to humanitarian missions ranges from
   public health to subspecialty clinical care depending on the contingency. When disasters
   occur, resources such as potable water, sanitation, nutrition, fuel, and shelters may be
   unavailable or in short supply during the emergency relief phase. Due to the lack of these
   resources and overcrowded conditions, enteric diseases (diarrhea), upper respiratory tract
   infections, and vector borne diseases such as malaria and dengue fever, cholera, and typhoid
   may be common. The demographics of a population displaced from war or natural disaster
   may include a larger percentage of the young and elderly and more women and children than
   the typical military active duty profile.

   3.5.2. The SPEARR team serves as the basic building block for a modular approach to
   medical support in humanitarian missions. The following UTCs designed to support MTWs
   also have applicability in humanitarian missions: primary care augmentation, gynecology
   augmentation, infectious disease, air transportable dental clinic, and pediatrics.

3.6. AFMS Support in Major Theater War (MTW).

   3.6.1. The AFTH is augmented by several teams to provide the appropriate level of medical
   support at or above the 25-bed capacity. Specialty and ancillary UTCs/teams are generally
   centralized at one to three mature theater hospitals in a theater. Mature theater hospitals are
   normally 50 beds or greater with a full complement of medical specialty augmentation UTCs.
   Contingency-specific needs will drive deviations. Specialty UTCs that may be centralized at
   mature theater hospitals include: gynecology augmentation, infectious disease, endodontic,
   periodontic, oral surgery, otolaryngology, ophthalmology, neurosurgery, thoracic/vascular,
   CT scan, fluoroscopy, angiography, and ancillary teams.
18                                                              AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001



     3.6.2. Aeromedical Staging Facilities (ASFs). ASFs support the aeromedical evacuation
     system. They provide inpatient holding capability at AE transfer points. Generally,
     command and control of ASFs falls within the C2 processes of AE units (refer to AFTTP 3-
     42.5, Aeromedical Evacuation); however, C2 of fixed ASFs may fall under the operational
     control of the Air Force host wing through the medical commander.

     3.6.3. Patient Movement. Expeditionary battlefield philosophies have driven significant
     changes in medical support including minimized forward medical footprint, evacuation and
     replacement of patients, and transporting stabilized verses stable patients. The requirement
     to move patients is a joint responsibility and in today’s environment, is even more critical to
     the health support system. Patient evacuation can be by surface (land or water) or by air
     (rotary-wing, tilt-wing, or fixed-wing aircraft); however, air is preferred.

        3.6.3.1. Several components of the Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support
        System can only provide essential care in theater. Thus, timely and rapid patient
        movement support is critical to mission success. For additional patient movement
        doctrine, reference Joint Publication 4-02.2, JTTP for Patient Movement in Joint
        Operations.

        3.6.3.2. Patient Movement Coordination. The patient movement process begins when
        a health care unit sends a request to the servicing Patient Movement Requirements Center
        (PMRC). The PMRC evaluates the request, validates the requirement (addressing
        medical, operational, and administrative issues required to safely move a patient),
        identifies a potential destination(s), determines the mode of transportation, and assigns
        patient and equipment requirements to the appropriate Service transportation component.
        Patient movement may be executed using ships or rotary-wing, tilt-wing, or fixed-wing
        assets. Sufficient and timely coordination with the PMRC, including medical supply
        and equipment requirements, is essential to ensure smooth patient movement.

     3.6.4. Interface with the Air Force AE System. When the PMRC identifies the Air Force
     as the Service transportation component, the AE cell within the airlift center will receive the
     requirement, review airlift options, collaborate with the PMRC, and determine the final lift
     decision based on overall requirements, availability, and priorities. AE incrementalized
     elements are normally deployed in conjunction with the SPEARR team, EMEDS Basic, and
     AFTH, and provide coordination and staging capabilities for patients entering or transiting
     through the AE system. For further guidance on the AE system, accessing the system, and
     patient preparation and medical considerations, refer to AFTTP 3-42.5, Aeromedical
     Evacuation. Physician roles and responsibilities are outlined in AFJI 41-306, Physician’s
     Roles and Responsibilities in Aeromedical Evacuation (draft).
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                                  19


                                          Chapter 4

          COMMAND, CONTROL, COMMUNICATIONS, AND COMPUTERS

4.1. Command, Control, Communications, and Computers (C4). C4 of medical operations
in multinational or United Nations (UN) operations are defined in the warning, execution, and
operations orders. Service component planners establish medical requirements and relay them
through existing tasking messages/mechanisms to MAJCOMs and wings.

4.2. Command and Control.

   4.2.1. Unified Command Surgeon. The Unified Command Surgeon establishes theater
   medical policy, requirements, and medical CONOPs and communicates these matters
   through the AFFOR Surgeon to the deployed medical units. The chain of command for
   expeditionary medical units is through the Line of the Air Force (LAF).

   4.2.2. Air Force Forces.

       4.2.2.1. The Commander, Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR) serves as the “single-voice”
       Air Force to the joint force commander. The COMAFFOR is responsible for all Air
       Force forces (AFFOR) assigned or attached to the air component in joint or multinational
       operations. The COMAFFOR employs and sustains assigned and attached AFFOR in-
       theater.

       4.2.2.2. A corps neutral, medical officer at the rank of colonel is a member of the
       COMAFFOR special staff and is the director of Air Force health services operations.
       This medical officer may be known as the AFFOR Surgeon and is responsible for
       overall health resources management and provides information on health surveillance and
       risk assessments, sustainment, and other force health protection issues. The AFFOR
       Surgeon does not exercise command authority over deployed medical assets but provides
       a planning, coordinating, and oversight role.

   4.2.3. Local Command Authority for Aerospace Expeditionary Wings (AEWs).

       4.2.3.1. The AEW/AEG commander has administrative control of all assigned AEW
       assets. The AEW/AEG commander may designate the deployed medical commander to
       serve as medical operations advisor to the wing or group staff. When deployed, the
       EMEDS/AFTH falls under the AEW/AEG chain of command.

       4.2.3.2. At each forward operating location (FOL), the deployed medical commander or
       senior medical officer reports to the AEW site commander within the chain of command.
       Deployed medical commanders may be granted G-Series orders at the discretion of the
       COMAFFOR or highest level to which OPCON is delegated. Under full mobilization,
       full administrative control (ADCON) authority goes to the COMAFFOR. Under less
       than full mobilization, the COMAFFOR may receive specified elements of ADCON, to
       include UCMJ authority, force protection requirements, and other specific authorities
20                                                              AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


        written in G-Series orders. The Air Reserve Component (ARC) retains all other ADCON
        authorities.

     4.2.4. Local Command Authority for Major Theater War (MTW). The AEW/CC
     designates a medical group commander, usually the deployed medical commander. The
     AFFOR Surgeon has coordinating authority with the DMC and/or SMO at all geographically
     separated sites. However, chain of command remains through LAF channels.

     4.2.5. Multinational Operations. Command and control of medical operations in
     multinational or UN operations is defined in the warning/execution/operations order.

4.3. Communications.

     4.3.1. Medical Reports and Communication. All medical reports are submitted in
     accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 10-206, Operational Reporting, and specific
     CINC, joint task force (JTF), and COMAFFOR guidance. The MEDRED-C (RCS:HAF-
     SGH(AR)8602) is a status report of medical operations readiness. This report is
     accomplished daily and communicated to the AFFOR Surgeon, contributing MAJCOM
     Surgeons, and the Air Force Surgeon General. For sustained operations, MEDRED-C may
     be required weekly with the concurrence of the AFFOR Surgeon.

        4.3.1.1. The MEDRED-C is an on-site assessment of the deployed medical unit’s ability
        to perform its mission. This report provides information on the operational readiness
        status, unit availability, and patient care activities of US Air Force Medical Service units
        on alert for contingency operations or are under the influence of an unusual occurrence
        (i.e., natural disaster or other emergencies).

        4.3.1.2. Data is used to make operational decisions on medical support forces and to
        perform medical intelligence analyses during contingency operations. Preventive
        medicine personnel will submit DNBI reports to the AFFOR Surgeon, contributing
        MAJCOM surgeons, and other locations as directed by the theater surgeon and Service
        policy. Data will be used to identify, track, and minimize the impact of disease and
        nonbattle injury.

        4.3.1.3. DNBI data will also be used for exposure tracking and record-keeping in
        accordance with DOD and Air Force policy. This data may also be submitted to the US
        Army Center for Health Promotion and Preventive Medicine (USACHPPM), the Air
        Force Institute for Environmental Risk Analysis (AFIERA), or other specialized
        organization to meet theater surgeon preventive medicine requirements.

     4.3.2. Secure/ Nonsecure Communications. Any classified information must be
     transmitted by secure means. Situation reports (SITREPs), MEDRED-Cs, medical
     surveillance, site locations, and compiled patient data are all examples of information that
     can be classified and will need safeguarding. The types of secure communications
     equipment usually available include secure telephone unit (e.g., STU IIIs) and various other
     encryption devices. Medical or casualty information becomes an operations security
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                                   21


   (OPSEC) issue when linked to a particular military mission or operation. While medical
   information itself is not normally classified, in the context of a mission, it should be
   protected as part of the CINC’s overall OPSEC program to deny information to the enemy.

   4.3.3. Telephones and Radios. Secure/nonsecure telephones and radios are other
   communication devices used with EMEDS/AFTH. Users must be familiar with the
   procedures and proper operation of telephone and radios prior to deployment. The radio
   equipment is interoperable with a wide variety of DOD and commercial radios. Use of these
   radio sets in operations outside the United States must be approved through the appropriate
   theater CINC.

   4.3.4. Satellite Communications (SATCOM). SATCOM assets are deployed with the
   EMEDS/AFTH force package. Though satellite connectivity is the preferred connection,
   factors such as bandwidth availability and CINC priorities may dictate SATCOM usage.
   Theater deployable communications (TDC) provides other methods for theater
   communications. In these cases the theater CINC may direct priorities. Telemedicine,
   medical logistics support, video transmission, and electronic mail require SATCOM
   capability when there is no local area network (LAN)/wide-area network (WAN)
   connectivity or a TDC network. Satellite communications may be military or commercial
   systems.

   4.3.5. Classified Information. Classified information that is not under the personal control
   and observation of an authorized person is to be guarded or stored in a locked security
   container. A General Services Administration (GSA) approved field safe can be used.
   However, one- or two- drawer light containers must be securely fastened to the structure or
   under constant surveillance to prevent theft.

4.4. Systems.

   4.4.1. Applicable Air Force C4 Policy. Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-108, Compatibility,
   Interoperability, and Integration of C4 Systems, establishes guidance and responsibilities to
   ensure compatibility, interoperability, and integration for new and modified C4 systems,
   including automated information systems (AIS).

   4.4.2. Network Management Policies. AFI 33-115V1, Network Management, identifies
   responsibilities for supporting critical Air Force communications and information networks,
   primarily through Network Operations and Security Centers (NOSCs) and Network Control
   Centers (NCCs). Air Force network management adheres to the Defense Information
   Infrastructure Control Concept (DIICC) consisting of areas of distributed responsibility at
   global, regional, and local levels.

   4.4.3. Communications and Computer System Support. Deployed medical assets utilize
   Air Force communications units, which provide base communications, voice, data
   infrastructure, and long-haul theater connectivity. Communication requirements and
   frequency allocation issues must be coordinated prior to deployment. Medical assets must
   deploy with dedicated computers and printers compatible with AEF infrastructure. These
22                                                                                                                                                                                           AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


     computers should provide word processing, database management, store-forward
     telemedicine, telemaintenance, medical logistics support, message text formatting, graphics,
     and LAN/WAN interface capability (Figure 4.1).

Figure 4.1. Depicts an Example of Network Configuration

               Wide
                                                                           EMEDS BASIC TWO TENT
                Area
              Network
                                                                          NETWORK CONFIGURATION
                                               Central
                                               Dial UP
                                                                                                                                                          Organic
                                                                                                                                                           Comm
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SPEARR               SPEARR
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sleep                 Sleep
                                                                                                                                                                SPEARR Trailer                      Tent                 Tent


                                                            C2 / Comm
                                                               Client

                                                                                                        text
                                                                                                                                                Note: Use of equipment in SPEARR                                    Stand Alone Flight Medicine
                                                                                                                                                Trailer must be within manufacturer's                               Clinic
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Flight
                                                                                                                                                environmental ranges.                                    Medicine

                                                                                                                                                Temperature: 41 - 95 F
                  Theater                                                                                                                       Non-Condensing Humidity 20% - 80%
                Deployable
                   Comm

                                                       x
                                                       1      6x7x   2
                                                                     1x                                                   SU E
                                                                                                                             PR            SD
                                                                                         Stu
                                                                                          a
                                                                                          t s                             ST C (
                                                                                                                             AK     3C m
                                                                                                                                      o


        ECU
                                                                          MI
                                                                          D
                                                                          MI 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1 1 1 T R eC l i n P er
                                                                          DX                    0 2 E et ol s ow
                                                                                                      ST s    o
                                                       3
                                                       1x     1819
                                                                xx   20      13141516171819 2 2 2 2 2
                                                                                            01 34                      S nt S ckI
                                                                                                                        upeyH I
                                                                                                                        E r t ub
                                                                                                                          r a




                                   ER                                                                                                                                            Critical                                   OR /
                                  Client                                                                                                                                          Care                                  Commander
                    All In One                                                                                                                                                   Client                                    Client
                      Printer       Emergency Room (ER)                                                               X-RAY
                                                                                                                                                                            Patient Holding / Dental                     Operating Room (OR)


                                  Zip Drive     Laptop
                         *MOC
                                                Server                                                                                                                                                                                            ECU
                                                                                               ** P.H.                                                                      *** BEE             Dental
                                                                                                Client                                                 Supply                 Client            X-RAY
                 ER Client       Inmarsat     Router                                                                                                   Laptop

                 * MOC - Medical Operations Center
                                                                                                                                     Tent Dimensions:
                 ** PH - Public Health                                                                                               Tent         - 20' X 32.5'                             1400 lbs
                 *** BEE - Bioenvironmental Engineering                                                                              Extension     - 20' X 8'                                335 lbs
                          (Industrial Hygiene)                                                                                       Vestibule     - 7' X 8'                                 195 lbs
                                                                                                                                     Tent Container - 41.25"X102"X51"                        315 lbs
                                                                                                                                                        WxLxH




     4.4.4. Communication Resources. The communication systems and support equipment
     must be interoperable with the joint arena communications and frequency management
     operations. Communication planners must coordinate frequency requirements through
     appropriate frequency management channels (e.g., installation, MAJCOM, and theater) to
     ensure all radiating equipment is spectrum certified and frequency supportable. Also, host-
     nation coordination must be initiated before a full-scale deployment. Tactical radios and land
     mobile radios (LMRs) are normally deployed with medical units, for local use at the
     operational site.

     4.4.5. Technology Utilization. Telemedicine involves providing health care
     consultation services via electronic transmission of medical information.
     Telemedicine has several forms ranging from its most simple form involving a
     telephone call to a consultant to its most sophisticated form of real-time live video
     conferencing. Telemedicine is split into two main forms.

        4.4.5.1. Real-time Video Conferencing. Real-time video conferencing is a
        sophisticated form of communication and uses video technologies for live, “real-
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                                    23


      time, face-to-face” interactions with others. Generally, real-time video
      conferencing requires a large bandwidth to efficiently transmit and receive
      signals.

      4.4.5.2. “Store and Forward” Information. “Store and forward” information is
      a capability whereby clinical information including radiographs, photographs and
      other clinically related data are electronically transmitted from one computer to
      another in a manner similar to e-mail. Of these two types, store and forward
      requires much less hardware and bandwidth to transmit the information and is
      ideal for nonemergent teleconsultation situations. It simply becomes the
      electronic equivalent of a SF 513 (Medical Record – Consultation Sheet) with
      attached digitized photographs and radiographs.

   4.4.6. Organic Communications Equipment.

      4.4.6.1. The EMEDS/AFTH facility is equipped with organic communications
      equipment (SATCOM and tactical radios). Prior to deployment, medical units should
      ensure EMEDS/AFTH organic communication and computer systems are compatible
      with deployed forces’ communication and computer systems. EMEDS Basic,
      EMEDS+10/25 bed AFTH LAN configurations are included in the organic equipment
      package. The MEFPAK Surgeon for each Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground
      Support System UTC establishes and maintains a summary of all required deployable
      communications systems and line-of-business software applications. The summary may
      include specific information for bandwidth requirements, transmission control protocol
      (TCP) port utilization, external communication interfaces with associated Internet
      protocol (IP) addresses, time of day utilization cycles, restoration priorities, etc. Voice
      and data communications links are vital for sustaining command and control, medical
      logistics support, patient movement data, and general message traffic capabilities.

      4.4.6.2. EMEDS/AFTH deploys with organic satellite communications capability.
      Tactical and satellite communication sets or radios are allocated IAW the allowance
      standard and individual contingency operational considerations. EMEDS/AFTH requires
      ECS for deployed NCC functionality, supplying networking core services (e.g., WAN
      network access, information protection, NOS domain architecture, and TCP/IP
      addressing). Other deployed elements may provide alternate sources of communications
      in the event EMEDS/AFTH primary communications become inoperable.

4.5. Intelligence, National Agencies, and Space Support.

   4.5.1. Intelligence.

          4.5.1.1. Accurate medical intelligence is crucial to threat identification and
          application of appropriate preventive medicine measures. Prior to deployment, units,
          groups, and/or individuals tasked to support an operation require deployment
          briefings in accordance with AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Planning and Training,
          and AFI 10-402, Mobilization Planning, for the area of responsibility (AOR). During
24                                                            AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


            the employment stage of an operation, medical personnel require periodic briefings
            for their deployed location and for areas they are transiting while conducting medical
            operations.

            4.5.1.2. The public health specialist (either the public health officer or
            noncommissioned officer [NCO]) serves as the Medical Intelligence Officer (MIO) to
            the deployed medical commander. The MIO is the main focal point for collection
            and dissemination of medical intelligence. The AFFOR Surgeon is responsible to
            ensure periodic medical and environmental intelligence updates are provided to all
            assigned units. Wing and group commanders, IAW operational directives, coordinate
            communication of medical intelligence information.

     4.5.2. National Agencies. The Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) and the Armed Forces
     Medical Intelligence Center (AFMIC) are primary sources for current medical intelligence.
     In a deployed environment the AFFOR Surgeon is the primary source for theater/regional
     medical intelligence.

     4.5.3. Space Support. Space-derived intelligence, weather updates, and troop movements
     are examples of valuable information that are primarily acquired through base support
     units/organizations. Accurate medical intelligence is crucial to threat identification and
     application of appropriate preventive medicine measures. The AFFOR Surgeon is
     responsible for ensuring assigned units receive periodic medical /environmental intelligence
     updates. Space-based communication systems, linked with terrestrial C2 systems, give the
     theater surgeon and deployed medical commander the ability to more effectively and
     efficiently direct, monitor, and employ the deployed medical forces and resources. C2
     systems such as the Global Command and Control System (GCCS) and the Global Combat
     Support System (GCSS) are key to successfully directing, monitoring, and employing
     deployed medical forces.
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                                        25


                                            Chapter 5

                               PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS

5.1. Force Integration and Interoperability. Integration and interoperability of deployed
assets in a theater or area of operation are critical for successful medical operations. Given that
potential Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System deployments include the full
spectrum of deployed scenarios, it is essential that medical integration and interoperability occur
with line elements of an AEF, components of the aeromedical evacuation system, joint medical
counterparts, SOF medical components, and other federal and civilian support systems.
Integration with the line is particularly critical for ECS and aeromedical evacuation.

5.2. Integration and Interoperability With Other Systems.

   5.2.1. ECS requirements are significant and critical to delivery of health care support
   services. ECS requirements include, but are not limited to: messing, water, ice, fuels,
   billeting, latrines, showers, laundry, mortuary affairs, public affairs, chaplain, linguist, waste
   management, transportation (to include ambulance-type vehicles), vehicle maintenance
   support, vehicle decontamination, equipment maintenance, general supplies, contracting,
   information and communications systems support and maintenance, personnel
   decontamination, and security.

   5.2.2. Support may be provided using HARVEST EAGLE or HARVEST FALCON, Air
   Force Contract Augmentation Program (AFCAP) or commercial assets. In contaminated
   environments, base support may be required for decontamination of deployed medical
   facility infrastructure and vehicles to include decontamination of the site location when
   necessary.

5.3. Medical Planners. Theater medical planners in coordination with the supporting command
will integrate medical and AE elements to provide intra/ intertheater AE support to Aerospance
Medical Contingency Ground Support Systems. AE assets may be collocated with components
of the this ground support system and include AE crewmembers (AECMs), Critical Care Air
Transport Teams (CCATTs), AE Liaison Teams (AELTs), Mobile Aeromedical Staging
Facilities (MASFs), and fixed ASFs. The AE system is described in the AMC Omnibus Plan,
the AE CONOPS, and AFTTP 3-42.5, Aeromedical Evacuation. Theater medical planners will
receive support and planning guidance from AMC, ANG, and AFRC.

   5.3.1. Theater Patient Movement Requirements Center (TPMRC).

       5.3.1.1. The TPMRC is the single responsible agent in their respective theater or AOR
       for collaborative patient movement planning, management, and in-transit visibility. The
       PMRC evaluates patient movement requests (PMR), validates the requirement
       (addressing medical, operational, and administrative issues required to safely move the
       patient), identifies a potential destination(s), determines the mode of transportation, and
       assigns patient and equipment requirements to the appropriate Service transportation
       component. TPMRCs have the authority to ensure lift and bed requirements are
26                                                              AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


        communicated to supporting agencies, healthcare facilities, and government agencies
        within their AOR.

        5.3.1.2. Deployed medical assets must submit a PMR to the TPMRC in accordance with
        prescribed procedures using available communications support systems. When a
        TPMRC is not available in-theater, PMRs are submitted IAW theater policy. Aerospace
        Medical Contingency Ground Support System personnel should contact the TPMRC to
        request both intra and intertheater patient movement.

     5.3.2. Global Patient Movement Requirements Center (GPMRC). The GPMRC
     provides intertheater medical regulating services. In certain contingencies, Aerospace
     Medical Contingency Ground Support System personnel may have to coordinate directly
     with the GPMRC for patient regulation and evacuation.

     5.3.3. Special Operations Forces (SOF) Medical Support. Air Force Special Operations
     Command (AFSOC) is designated as an “AEF enabler.” AFSOC capability to support this
     role includes Level 1 (First Responder) and limited Level 2 (Casualty Collection and
     Forward Resuscitative Surgery) medical support, which is primarily aligned with AFSOC
     operational units. Unique personnel and equipment packages are designed to support
     worldwide special operations, including far-forward missions. In an “AEF enabler” role,
     these SOF assets interface and/or integrate with LAF and conventional medical and
     aeromedical elements, as well as joint SOF medical support components. Details of SOF
     operational medical support are provided in AFTTP 3-42.6, USAF Medical Support for
     Special Operations Forces (SOF), and the AFSOC Medical CONOPs.

5.4. Security, Medical Resource Protection, and Medical Logistics.

     5.4.1. Medical personnel and equipment are noncombatant assets. Security within the
     immediate area for patients and personnel resources at each deployed medical site, with the
     exception of enemy prisoner of war (EPW) patients, is a medical responsibility. Medical
     personnel are issued small arms IAW AFI 32-207, Arming and Use of Force. Deployed
     medical site assets, such as narcotics, are protected as a controlled area in accordance with
     AFI 31-209, The Air Force Resource Protection Program. Additional force protection
     measures should be determined by the DMC or SMO based upon terrorist force protection
     condition (FPCON) and the advice of the Defense Force Commander (DFC).

     5.4.2. Medical Logistics. Medical logistics personnel in concert with LAF and medical
     planners provide insight into when, where, what, how much, at what rate, and for how long,
     WRM is required. WRM equipment may be prepositioned or incrementally deployed to
     ensure adequate materiel is available or on-hand. Logistics objectives are to reduce the
     physical footprint and airlift requirement without degrading medical capability and to
     provide the right materiel and a tailored logistics support system to ensure responsive
     sustainment. EMEDS/AFTH increments initially contain 7 days of supplies. A limited item
     10-day resupply package is available as either a “push” or “pull” asset. Fully integrated
     material acquisitions, status, flow, and transportation information is required. A highly
     automated and integrated logistic system is used to manage high-velocity logistics.
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                                     27


  Additional information on logistics support and processes can be found in AFTTP 3-42.8,
  Medical Logistics and Blood Support Operations.

  5.4.3. Medical Storage Requirements. EMEDS/AFTH assets are stored in a ready mode
  for rapid deployment. Modules may be stored at one location or maintained/sourced from
  other locations. At both home station and the deployed site, medical assets must be stored in
  facilities that provide security and a climate-controlled environment that prevents
  degradation to dated and temperature sensitive assets. All surgical instruments/trays should
  be stored in a ready to use condition (sterilized and packaged).

  5.4.4. Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS) Requirements. Once delivered to an
  operational site, the medical staff will erect each increment of the EMEDS/AFTH and attain
  full operational status. Base support personnel will be needed to connect the EMEDS/AFTH
  to the base infrastructure. ECS support for patients and deployed medical staff will be
  provided using host base capabilities.

     5.4.4.1. The DMC or SMO must assure expeditionary combat support arrangements are
     coordinated with appropriate agencies prior to deployment. Other base support service
     requirements include, but are not limited to; transportation (for up to 13- 463L pallets, a
     6,000-pound trailer, personnel, and patients until the ambulance arrives) contracting,
     billeting, food service, general supplies, sewage and waste disposal, potable water,
     laundry, fire protection, transportation, vehicle maintenance, and communications,
     including radio maintenance.

     5.4.4.2. Pending arrival and set-up of deployed medical facilities, the bare base should
     provide a shelter of opportunity for interim use.

           5.4.4.2.1. Bare base electrical power systems provide prime and backup power for
     EMEDS/AFTH facilities and equipment. Initial support will be provided using low
     voltage tactical mobile power generators, e.g., MEP-7. High voltage primary power will
     be provided once installed, and the tactical generators allocated for emergency backup
     power. Ground power equipment specialists will be provided to connect power
     distribution panels (PDPs) to commercial or bare base power. Field deployable
     environmental control units (FDECUs) are embedded in the EMEDS AS. [See the
     EMEDS Basic and EMEDS+10/25 bed AFTH Power Grid Configurations in the EMEDS
     CONOPS.] Ground fuels support will normally be obtained on a contract basis. Fuels
     for EMEDS/AFTH vehicles, generators, etc., should be included with other base
     requirements.

           5.4.4.2.2. Liquid oxygen (LOX) and other gases should be included in base
     requirements and should be obtained from fuels or on a contract basis.

           5.4.4.2.3. The EMEDS CONOPS provides a descriptive list of EMEDS/AFTH
     ECS requirements. Operations involving SPEARR team deployments may require a
     different mix of ECS. The SPEARR team, with the trailer, is equipped to supply its own
28                                                     AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


     power, food, communications, and shelter for 5 days. The list of SPEARR team ECS
     requirements is listed in the SPEARR CONOPS.
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                                    29


                                           Chapter 6

                               EDUCATION AND TRAINING

6.1. Education Programs.

   6.1.1. Education programs must retain the flexibility to quickly adapt to emerging concepts
   and ideas. Within the dynamic global security environment education programs must remain
   relevant. Education programs that remain entrenched in out-of-date concepts do not
   adequately prepare individuals to cope with changing environments and lose credibility
   within the institution and with individuals. Education programs must improve the airman’s
   contribution across the full range of military operations.

   6.1.2. Education programs built around realistic scenarios and which demand decision
   making within realistic time frames serve to increase the educational effect. This is achieved
   through dynamic curricula that anticipate the evolving security environment. Education
   programs involving the full range of aerospace power capabilities within a wide range of
   military operations provide a comprehensive educational experience (AFDD 2.4.3, Education
   and Training).

   6.1.3. Education programs should never be designed haphazardly. Careful consideration
   must be given to the desired outcome of the program. While no two programs will be alike,
   there are some common aspects that should always be considered. The benefit of education
   programs can be maximized through: flexibility to adapt educational objectives to emerging
   concepts and ideas; versatility to encompass the full range of military operations in education
   programs; priority on relevant concepts through objective evaluation, feedback and input;
   balance between academic concept, operational reality, and historical perspective; and
   centralized development of education programs through a systematic approach involving
   mentally challenging, realistic educational goals.

6.2. Expeditionary Medical Support (EMEDS)/AFTH Training.

   6.2.1. Ready-to-deploy, trained, medical personnel assigned to an EMEDS UTC are defined
   as having completed the following:

      6.2.1.1. Formal EMEDS/AFTH specific medical field operational training (taught at
      USAF School of Aerospace Medicine [USAFSAM] at Brooks AFB, Texas).

      6.2.1.2. Completion of the medical Readiness Skills Verification Program (RSVP),
      which defines Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) specific readiness skills.

      6.2.1.3. Advanced trauma/critical care clinical training (for selected personnel) at a
      Center for Readiness Skills Training.

      6.2.1.4. Other training requirements as stipulated by AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness
      Planning and Training.
30                                                             AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001



     6.2.2. Education and training need to be conducted in an environment that permits the
     personnel assigned to the modules of EMEDS/AFTH to exercise simultaneously using the
     skills/knowledge they already possess with the actual equipment and supplies in the
     EMEDS/AFTH modules. Educating and training together permits personnel to learn and
     perform the duties of other team members.

     6.2.3. The idea of cross-functionality becomes reality and engenders the capability of a
     commander to move personnel in and between the modules for those circumstances where
     membership has to be reconstituted because of illness, temporary duty (TDY), leave, or
     administrative actions. Familiarity with the operation of the SPEARR, EMEDS Basic, and
     EMEDS+10/25 bed modules while these modules train together strengthens a person’s
     understanding of the concept of operations and their personal capability to deploy regardless
     of the original assignment to a specific module.

     6.2.4. In garrison, the medical group (MDG)/CC is responsible for ensuring all training is
     completed and properly documented. Training documentation is maintained within the unit
     Medical Readiness Office while at home station. The Medical Readiness Office is
     responsible for reporting the training statistics to their parent MAJCOM using the MAJCOM
     prescribed format.

     6.2.5. When deployed, the DMC should appoint an individual who will ensure education and
     training continues IAW AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Planning and Training, and that the
     training is appropriately documented in the medical readiness training record. Air Reserve
     Component (ARC) EMEDS/AFTH UTCs not sourced against AEFs will meet formal UTC
     training requirements IAW 41-106, Medical Readiness Planning and Training. When ARC
     personnel are unable to attend formal training (due to scheduling difficulty) with their
     assigned units as a complete unit, they can attend training with other units.

     6.2.6. EMEDS/AFTH UTC training is based on three 15-month cycles (Figure 6.1). Team
     training consists of three training elements: a formal element, centralized at one site for
     standardization; a practical follow-on element, designed to provide a team exercise
     experience; and a sustainment element, completed at home station. The formal element
     consists of the EMEDS formal course. This training occurs during the first 15-month cycle
     but no later than 30 days prior to deployment vulnerability. The practical element is
     conducted during the second or third 15-month cycle. The third element, sustainment
     training, should be continuous throughout the three cycles.
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                                                                                              31


Figure 6.1. Depicts AEF Rotation Schedule/3-Month Blocks


          15 month cycle                                15 month cycle                                   15 month cycle



        Recon-                    Team                Recon-                        Team                Recon-                        Team
                   EMEDS   ORE   Building   Deploy               Practical   ORE              Deploy               Practical   ORE              Deploy
       stitution                                     stitution                     Building            stitution                     Building




                                                            Sustainment

      6.2.6.1. Formal Training.

                    6.2.6.1.1. EMEDS/AFTH training is implemented on a 15-month training cycle,
                    alternating the formal EMEDS/AFTH course with practical training, based on the
                    AEF rotation schedule. The in-residence formal training is required for all
                    EMEDS/AFTH teams every 45 months. Formal SPEARR team training is
                    included in the formal EMEDS curriculum requirements. Attending the
                    EMEDS/AFTH formal course provides full credit for continuing medical
                    readiness training (CMRT). Unit/team integrity is maintained to the maximum
                    extent possible. Assigned personnel must be flexible in what they are trained to
                    do, to include multifunctional roles within the EMEDS/AFTH teams. Course
                    C4A or an equivalent course is required for the EMEDS/AFTH commander and
                    deputy commander.

                    6.2.6.1.2. Upon completion of EMEDS/AFTH formal training, each team
                    member is issued an AF Form 1098, Task Certification, documenting all training
                    received to include those additional sustainment elements from AFI 41-106,
                    Medical Readiness Planning and Training, Attachment 3. The incorporation of
                    expeditionary medical support concepts is included in all formal medical
                    readiness training (i.e., Expeditionary Medical Readiness Course [EMRC]/Basic
                    Expeditionary Medical Readiness Training [BEMRT], Combat Readiness
                    Training Center [CRTC] - ANG Medical Readiness Training Site [MRTS],
                    Reserve Medical Readiness Field Training [RMRFT], and Medical Readiness
                    Indoctrination Course). These formal courses serve as EMEDS/AFTH training
                    platforms beyond the EMEDS/AFTH formal course.

      6.2.6.2. Practical Training. Practical training gives the EMEDS/AFTH teams an
      opportunity to reinforce the skills taught during the formal course. EMEDS/AFTH
      practical training will take advantage of these opportunities to integrate and train with all
      EMEDS/AFTH increments in an exercise based format. EMEDS/AFTH training should
      also take advantage of deployment and joint exercises. As with formal training, the
      practical training will be documented on an AF Form 1098, Task Certification.
32                                                          AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


      6.2.6.3. Sustainment Training.

             6.2.6.3.1. Sustainment training consists of AFSC-specific activity and training
             events that enhance and maintain a team member’s operational skills. These
             events can include any formal courses (i.e., advanced trauma life support [ATLS],
             advanced cardiac life support [ACLS], Trauma Nursing Core Course, etc.) and
             exercises where the Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System
             concept is deployed. Sustainment instruction is expected throughout each training
             cycle. Units collocated with Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support
             System equipment sets are required to set up, inventory, and exercise the set
             annually. Additional training is conducted IAW DODI 1322.24, Military Medical
             Readiness Skills Training, AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Planning and
             Training, and AFSC-specific training (core competencies). AFSC-specific
             training will focus primarily on the AFSC position filled within that UTC.
             Additionally, each team member must be familiar with multifunctional roles.

             6.2.6.3.2. Sustainment training may also include clinical training received
             through initiatives such as the Center of Readiness Skills Training (i.e., Ben Taub
             Medical Center or Jefferson Barracks experiences, or equivalents). The purpose
             of the Center of Readiness Skills Training is to train at a high-volume, civilian
             trauma center IAW the clinical requirements specified in the RSVP. Like the
             formal training, unit/team integrity is vital to this experience. Clinical
             sustainment training provides a focused experience that supports the provision of
             total medical support for a patient, potentially from point of injury through
             disposition, while deployed.

6.3. Forms Prescribed.

      6.3.1. SF Form 513, Medical Record – Consultation Sheet.
      6.3.2. AF Form 1098, Task Certification.




                                   LANCE L. SMITH, Major General, USAF
                                   Commander, Air Fore Doctrine Center
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                              33


                                        Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

JP 4-02, Doctrine for Health Service Support in Joint Operations
DODI 1322.24, Military Medical Readiness Skills Training
AFDD 2-4.2, Health Services
AFDD 2-4.3, Education and Training
AFM 10-206, Operational Reporting
AFI 10-400, Aerospace Expeditionary Force Planning
AFPD 33-1, Command Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems
AFI 33-108, Compatibility, Interoperability, and Integration of Command, Control,
Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems
AFI 33-115V1, Network Management
AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Planning and Training

Supporting Information

Small Portable Expeditionary Aeromedical Rapid Response (SPEARR) Concept of Operations
Expeditionary Medical Support (EMEDS) Concept of Operations

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ACC                          Air Combat Command
ACLS                         advanced cardiac life support
ADCON                        administrative control
ADVON                        advanced echelon
AE                           aeromedical evacuation
AECM                         aeromedical evacuation crewmembers
AEF                          Aerospace Expeditionary Force
AEFC                         Aerospace Expeditionary Force Center
AEG                          aerospace expeditionary group
AELT                         Aeromedical Evacuation Liaison Team
AES                          aerospace expeditionary squadron
AETF                         Aerospace Expeditionary Task Force
AEW                          aerospace expeditionary wing
AFCAP                        Air Force Contract Augmentation Program
AFFOR                        Air Force forces
AFI                          Air Force Instruction
AFIERA                       Air Force Institute for Environmental Risk Analysis
AFMAN                        Air Force Manual
AFMIC                        Armed Forces Medical Intelligence Center
AFMS                         Air Force Medical Service
AFPD                         Air Force Policy Directive
34                                         AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


AFRC       Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC       Air Force Specialty Code
AFSOC      Air Force Special Operations Command
AFTH       Air Force Theater Hospital
AIS        automated information systems
AMC        Air Mobility Command
ANG        Air National Guard
AOR        area of responsibility
ARC        Air Reserve Component
AS         allowance standard
ASF        Aeromedical Staging Facility
ATC        air transportable clinic
ATLS       advanced trauma life support

BOS        base operating support

C4         command, control, communications, and computers
CBW        chemical and biological warfare
CCATT      Critical Care Air Transport Team
CINC       commander in chief
CMRT       continuing medical readiness training
COMAFFOR   Commander, Air Force Forces
CONOPS     concept of operations
CONUS      continental United States
CSAF       Chief of Staff, United States Air Force
CT         computerized tomography

DECON      decontamination
DFC        Defense Force Commander
DIA        Defense Intelligence Agency
DIICC      Defense Information Infrastructure Control Concept
DIRLAUTH   direct liaison authorized
DMC        Deployed Medical Commander
DNBI       disease and nonbattle injury
DOD        Department of Defense
DODI       Department of Defense Instruction
DRMD       Deployment Requirements Manning Document

EAF        Expeditionary Aerospace Force
ECATT      expeditionary critical air transport team
ECS        Expeditionary Combat Support
ECU        environmental control unit
EMEDS      Expeditionary Medical Support
EPW        enemy prisoner of war

FDECU      field deployable environmental control unit
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                             35


FOC                   full operational capability
FOL                   forward operating location
FPCON                 force protection condition

GCCS                  Global Command and Control System
GCSS                  Global Combat Support System
GPMRC                 Global Patient Movement Requirements Center
GSA                   General Services Administration

HMTF                  host medical treatment facility
HSS                   health service support

IAW                   in accordance with
IDMT                  independent duty medical technician
IP                    Internet protocol

JP                    joint publication
JTF                   joint task force

LAF                   Line of the Air Force
LAN                   local area network
LMR                   land mobile radio
LOX                   liquid oxygen

MAJCOM                major command
MASF                  Mobile Aeromedical Staging Facility
MDG                   medical group
MEDREDC               Medical Report for Emergencies, Disasters, and Contingencies
MEFPAK                Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging
MEP                   mobile electric power
MFST                  mobile field surgical team
MGRL                  Medical Global Reach Laydown
MIO                   Medical Intelligence Officer
MMU                   mobile medical unit
MST                   mobility support team
MTF                   medical treatment facility
MTW                   major theater war

NBC                   nuclear, biological, and chemical
NCC                   Network Control Center
NCO                   noncommissioned officer
NOSC                  Network Operations and Security

OASD-HA               Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs
OCONUS                outside the continental United States
OPCON                 operational control
36                                          AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


OPSEC      operations security
ORE        operational readiness exercise

PAM        preventive aerospace medicine
PAR        population at risk
PCM        primary care management
PDP        power distribution panel
PMR        patient movement request
PMRC       Patient Movement Requirements Center

RSVP       Readiness Skills Verification Program
RTD        return to duty

SATCOM     satellite communications
SG         Surgeon General
SITREP     situation report
SME        squadron medical element
SMO        Senior Medical Officer
SOF        special operations forces
SPEARR     small portable expeditionary aeromedical rapid response
STU        secure telephone unit

TACC       tanker airlift control center
TALCE      tanker airlift control element
TCP        transmission control protocol
TDC        theater deployable communications
TDY        temporary duty
TPFDD      time-phased force and deployment data
TPMRC      Theater Patient Movement Requirements Center

UCMJ       Uniform Code of Military Justice
UN         United Nations
USACHPPM   US Army Center for Health Promotion and Preventive Medicine
USAFSAM    USAF School of Aerospace Medicine
UTC        unit type code

WAN        wide-area network
WRM        war reserve materiel
AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001                                                                      37


                                         Attachment 2

                                     LEVELS OF CARE

A1.1. The Health Service Support (HSS) System. The HSS system consists of five levels of
care. Patients are transported through various modes between these levels. These levels, and the
increasing degree of medical capabilities, are defined below. Patient movement forward of
Level 3 is a Service responsibility, but if operationally directed, AE may be tasked to go as far
forward as there is a suitable airstrip.

A1.2. Levels of Care.

  A1.2.1. Level 1 (L1)—First Responder. Level 1 care consists of care rendered at the unit
  level. It includes self-aid, buddy aid, combat lifesaver skills, examination, and emergency
  lifesaving measures such as the maintenance of the airway, control of bleeding, prevention
  and control of shock, splinting or immobilizing fractures, and prevention of further injury.
  Treatment may include restoration of the airway by invasive procedure; use of intravenous
  (IV) fluids and antibiotics; and application of splints and bandages. These elements of
  medical management prepare patients for return to duty (RTD) or for transportation to a
  higher level of care.

  A1.2.2. Level 2 (L2)—Casualty Collection and Forward Resuscitative Surgery. Level 2
  care, at a minimum, includes resuscitation and stabilization and may include advance trauma
  management, emergency medical procedures, forward resuscitative surgery capability, basic
  laboratory, limited x-ray, pharmacy, and temporary holding facilities. Patients are treated and
  returned to duty, or are stabilized for evacuation to an MTF capable of providing a higher
  level of care.

  A1.2.3. Level 3 (L3)—Theater Hospital—EMEDS+10/25 Bed AFTH. Level 3 care
  includes clinical capabilities normally found in an MTF that is located in a lower-level enemy
  threat environment. The MTF is staffed and equipped to provide resuscitation, initial wound
  surgery, and post-operative treatment. This level of care may be the first step toward
  restoration of functional health, as compared to procedures that stabilize a condition to
  prolong life. It does not normally have the crisis aspects of initial resuscitative care and can
  proceed with greater preparation and deliberation.

  A1.2.4. Level 4 (L4)—Mature Theater Hospital—EMEDS+50 Bed AFTH and Up.
  Level 4 care provides the surgical capabilities found at Level 3 and also provides
  rehabilitative and recovery therapy for those who can RTD within the theater evacuation
  policy. This level of care may only be available in mature theaters. The mature theater
  hospital may be an outside the continental United States (OCONUS) fixed medical treatment
  facility.

  A1.2.5. Level 5 (L5)—Definitive Care—Large Fixed Facility CONUS or CINC-
  Approved Safe Haven. Level 5 care is definitive, convalescent, restorative, and
  rehabilitative and is normally provided by military, Department of Veteran Affairs (DVA),
38                                                               AFTTP 3-42.7 24 AUGUST 2001


     CONUS civilian hospitals, and CINC-approved safe havens. This level may include a period
     of minimal care but with increased physical activity necessary to restore patients to functional
     health and allow them to RTD or to a useful and productive life.
