BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE TACTICS, TECHNIQUES
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                        AND PROCEDURES 3-10.2
                                                                            1 MARCH 2008

                                                                                  Tactical Doctrine

                                                                 INTEGRATED BASE DEFENSE
                                                                    COMMAND AND CONTROL


_________________________________________________________________________________
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
                 Publishing.af.mil (will convert to www.af.mil/e-publishing on AF Link) for
                 downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
_________________________________________________________________________________

OPR: HQ USAF/A7S0 (Lt Col Bargery)                       Certified by: HQ USAF/A4/7
                                                             (Lt Gen Kevin J. Sullivan)
                                                                            Pages: 29
_________________________________________________________________________________

PURPOSE : This Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP) document describes the
command relationships and organizational processes required of an effective command and control
center to support integrated base defense operations.

APPLICABILTY : This AFTTP is authoritative in nature, but requires judgment in application.
The principles and processes of this AFTTP must be translated into unit type code (UTC) and force
module capabilities by the appropriate agencies and pilot units.

SCOPE: While the processes set forth in this AFTTP are scoped for implementation at
expeditionary, high-threat locations, the tactical doctrine principles remain the same for garrison
operations at low-threat locations, with certain exceptions in the intelligence mission area. The
principles and processes of this AFTTP should be utilized in routine operations to improve base
defense integration and to better prepare the Air Force defense force for its combat mission.
However, applying this AFTTP in routine, garrison operations may not require full time manning of
some staff processes discussed. In these cases, processes should be in place (manned as additional
duties, networked organizational constructs, and/or chartered working groups) to ensure the intended
integration and planning is accomplished as required within operational and legal constraints. This
document does not address the details of the installation control center (ICC) or emergency
operations center (EOC) as they are discussed in separate, complementary guidance. The successful
execution of integrated base defense (IBD) command and control (C2) operations requires the
integration of the base defense operations center (BDOC) and EOC within the ICC construct.
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                         2



  Chapter 1--COMMAND AND CONTROL (C2) RELATIONSHIPS                          3
         1.1. Background                                                     3
  Figure 1. Base Defense Command Relationships                               4
         1.2. Battlefield Control Measures                                   5
  Figure 2. Base Defense Concept of ISR and Effects                          5
         1.3. Base Security Zone Command Relationships                       7
  Figure 3. Notional Example of Optimal Base Boundary.                       7
  Figure 4. Notional Example of a Suboptimal Base Boundary                   9

  Chapter 2--BASE DEFENSE OPERATIONS CENTER TASK ORGANIZATION                10
         2.1. BDOC Capabilities                                              10
         2.2. BDOC Deployability                                             11
         2.3. BDOC Organization                                              12
  Figure 5. Typical BDOC Organization                                        13
         2.4. Intelligence Fusion Cell                                       13
         2.5. BDOC Future Operations Cell Processes                          15
         2.6. BDOC Current Operations Cell Processes                         18
         2.7. Mission Specific Capability Cell                               20
         2.8. BDOC Staff Size Considerations                                 21

  Chapter 3--PLANNING, TRAINING, AND REQUIREMENTS                            22
        3.1. BDOC Air and Space Expeditionary Force Structure Requirements   22
        3.2. Training and Certification                                      22
        3.3. Equipment Requirements                                          23

  Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING                         25
           INFORMATION




                                             2
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                             3



                                              Chapter 1

                       COMMAND AND CONTROL RELATIONSHIPS

1.1. Background. Base defense command relationships are prescribed in Joint Publication (JP) 3-
10, Joint Security Operations in Theater. Base defense command authority is delegated from the
joint force commander (JFC), who assigns base command to the Service with primary interest in the
installation.

     1.1.1. Air bases provide the joint warfighting team with a strategic line of communication as
     well as airpower for the JFC’s operations. As such, they are high value targets for the enemy
     both by being highly symbolic and lucrative if the attack degrades airpower’s advantages.
     Additionally, the strategic implications of a successful attack are profound. The successful
     destruction of a strategic global mobility asset loaded with American troops could have
     overwhelming effects on national resolve while motivating widespread resistance to American
     operations in the theater. After the immediate effect on the joint force’s operations, critical air
     assets can only be replaced with significant expense and time.

     1.1.2. Past experience has shown forward operating bases (FOBs) are inherently joint. This
     trend will continue, if not increase, as the United States armed forces transform to a networked
     force adept at countering asymmetric enemies. As a result, joint warfare will move towards
     larger FOBs with numerous high value, critical assets from more than one Service’s
     component. These critical assets must be provided with a secure operating location from which
     to base their operations and store their high-value assets.

     1.1.3. To the air component of the joint force, effective air and space operations require a level
     of security higher than other FOBs. While hardening airfield facilities and aircraft provides
     some ability for airpower to withstand or mitigate enemy attacks, air operations are difficult to
     sustain in an environment where the enemy freely attacks the air base with either penetrating or
     standoff attacks.

     1.1.4. In large FOBs, the land component personnel will likely outnumber the air component
     personnel. The principles of unity of command and unity of effort suggest the component with
     the most stringent defense requirements, rather than the component with the preponderance of
     personnel, should command the defense priorities for the joint base. To ignore this best
     practice risks the defense priorities for air operations becoming a secondary or tertiary
     consideration rather than driving the operation.

            1.1.4.1. The component commander responsible for air operations (when the Air Force
            is the air component, the Commander of Air Force Forces [COMAFFOR]) at FOBs
            containing an active airfield should lead base defense operations since air operations
            drive more robust defensive requirements.




                                                  3
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                              4


Figure 1. Base Defense Command Relationships.



                                    Command Relationships For Base Defense
               OPCON
               TACON
               ADCON
                                               Joint Force Commander

                          Service Component                            Service Component
                             Commander                                    Commander


                              Base Commander
                                                   ICC                   Base Tenant Units

                      Defense Force Commander
                                                BDOC




         Service Component             Other Component Forces             Tenant Base Defense Forces
          Forces Assigned /            Made Available for BSZ             Provided for BSZ Missions
          Attached for Base                   Missions
               Defense


     1.1.5. Joint Publication 3-10, Joint Security Operations in Theater, states the base commander
     appointed by the JFC is responsible for base defense. This, in turn, drives the service identity
     of the Defense Force Commander (DFC) and the Service that will lead in organizing, training,
     and equipping the BDOC as discussed in JP 3-10. When operating in joint or coalition
     environments, BDOCs are sometimes referred to as JDOCs or CDOCs respectively.

     1.1.6. The command relationships for a BDOC are depicted in Figure 1. The BDOC is part of
     the ICC and serves as the installation commander’s tactical operation center for the base
     defense effort and in that role should function as the Command, Control, Communications,
     Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) integrator for the base
     defense battlespace.

            1.1.6.1. The Service with the designated installation commander normally provides the
            lead in establishing the nature and quantity of forces dedicated to base defense.
            However, when capability gaps exist, JP 3-10 states the JFC can attach other forces to
            the installation commander with specification of tactical control (TACON).

            1.1.6.2. In the case of air base defense, other components may have excess combat
            capacity in the area of the air base potentially able to support both the component’s and




                                                     4
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                            5

             base defense priorities. In this case, these forces should be under the TACON of the
             DFC for the particular mission.

             1.1.6.3. Other Service components residing on the installation may provide some
             defense capability as part of operating on the installation or as a result of a component
             unique defense requirement. For unity of command and fratricide prevention, these
             forces should operate under the TACON of the DFC for the duration of the specific base
             defense task(s) they are performing.

             1.1.6.4. During air base opening operations, the BDOC functionality must phase in
             based on mission requirements and report to the base commander as the situation
             requires.
1.2. Battlefield Control Measures. The base security zone (BSZ) depicted in Figure 2 is, in its
simplest terms, the battlespace from which the enemy can launch an attack against base personnel
and resources or aircraft approaching/departing the base. The geography of a BSZ should be
determined by factors of mission, enemy, terrain and weather, troops and support available, time, and
civilian considerations (METT-TC). However, historical experience with irregular threat forces and
their use of rockets, mortars, and shoulder-launched surface to air missiles gives a planning factor of
five kilometers, as a minimum, from base resources (e.g., aircraft operating surfaces, maintenance
facilities, and billeting locations). Base defense operations within the BSZ should be accomplished
by dedicated base defense forces, host nation forces, and other coalition forces. All of these efforts
should be integrated by the DFC for unity of command and unity of effort. The area of interest
reaches beyond the BSZ to anticipate and counter enemy threats. While base defense forces do not
influence effects in the area of interest, they can shape the environment by coordination with
joint/coalition forces and/or the host nation.
Figure 2. Base Defense Concept of ISR and Effects.




                                       Base Defense Area of Interest


                                              Base Security Zone
                                                Installation Perimeter

                          Focused ISR for the Air Base                   Effects
                                               Organic Security Zone

                                     Joint Air Base Defense Priorities
                                            Met by Joint Forces

                                     Fusion of All Source Intelligence




                                                          5
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                           6

    1.2.1. Experience and enemy tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs), both historic and
    current, show the standoff attacker presents a fleeting target. Insurgents, terrorists and special
    operations forces depend on blending in with the legitimate populace and typically only reveal
    themselves as combatants when they engage in a hostile act. It is not feasible to catch every
    enemy before he attacks, so the best practice is to shape a more secure BSZ. Interacting with
    the local populace in a positive manner is one method of shaping a secure BSZ. Robust
    defense operations denying the enemy the ability to plan, organize, conduct reconnaissance and
    use key terrain will also help secure the BSZ. Persistent, tactical, real-time intelligence assets
    (including human intelligence (HUMINT), signals intelligence (SIGINT), and imagery assets)
    and proactive combat operations within the BSZ and area of interest provide an early threat
    warning capability and cue organic/joint fires and forces. Some of these tactical intelligence,
    surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) assets may also need to be employed in the area of
    interest to provide early warning of threats.

    1.2.2. In non-linear warfare, the BSZ will often overlap with terrain where the joint force land
    component commander (JFLCC) or joint force special operations component commander
    (JFSOCC) also operates. This could create a conflict between the base commander and the
    other component area commander. In this case, the JFLCC/JFSOCC and base commander may
    have separate, but equally important, tactical tasks that need servicing within the BSZ. This
    may create a situation where commanders are competing for limited resources

    1.2.3. Battlespace issues in joint warfare are solved by creating battlefield control measures
    where all forces operating in the area have equal opportunity to conduct operations, managed
    by a single commander responsible for the area. In the context of base defense, JP 3-10 creates
    a battlefield control measure called a “base boundary.” Chapter I of JP 3-10 states “the base
    boundary is not necessarily the base perimeter, rather it should be established based on the
    factors of Mission, Enemy, Terrain and Weather, Troops and Support available, and Time
    available (METT-T), specifically balancing the need of the base defense forces to control key
    terrain with their ability to accomplish the mission.” The term BSZ as defined in paragraph 1.2
    is Air Force-specific and should be used intra-Service only and ideally will equate to the base
    boundary in a joint operation.

    1.2.4. As previously stated, the JFLCC, JFSOCC, host nation, and base commander may have
    competing interests in the terrain surrounding the base. To solve this dilemma, the base
    boundary is determined between the base commander and area commander. The optimal
    configuration for the base commander is when the base boundary and base security zone
    encompass the same terrain as depicted in Figure 3. However, host nation or other component
    considerations could result in the base boundary not encompassing all of the terrain within the
    BSZ as depicted in Figure 4, despite the base commander’s need for unity of command within
    the standoff footprint.

    1.2.5. The ideal situation for air base defense is when the base commander is also the Senior
    Airfield Authority (SAA). In those instances when the base commander and SAA are not the
    same person then the SAA’s base defense concerns and tasks must be coordinated with the
    base commander and other component area commanders. The base defense requirements of
    the SAA include actions to mitigate or assume risks within the shoulder-launched surface to air
    missile engagement zone of the airfield as well as creating an acceptable security environment


                                                 6
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                         7

     for air operations. These security requirements should be included in the base defense plan and
     could require the SAA to provide additional base defense capability to shape the base security
     environment.

1.3. BSZ Command Relationships. Since enemy forces in the BSZ are extremely fleeting targets,
the BDOC must orchestrate C4ISR within the BSZ. In an ideal situation the BSZ and the base
boundary encompass the same terrain. This means the base boundary will function as an area of
operations (AO) where both base defense forces and joint/coalition forces may concurrently execute
separate tasks that are managed within the BDOC for the terrain within the base boundary.

Figure 3. Notional Example of Optimal Base Boundary.



                                                                          Base
                                                                        Boundary

                                                                          Base Security
                                                                              Zone
                                         Air
                                         Base


                                               Urban
                                               Area




                                                7
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                         8


Figure 4. Notional Example of a Suboptimal Base Boundary.




                                                                         Base
                                                                       Boundary

                                                                          Base Security
                                                                              Zone
                                         Air
                                         Base




                                              Urban
                                              Area




     1.3.1. The BDOC is the tactical operations center for all operations occurring within the base
     boundary and the DFC is the JFLCC equivalent of a battalion AO commander. JFLCC
     battalion commanders do not normally have directly task organized assets such as civil affairs
     teams, tactical air control parties (TACPs), and artillery. Rather, battalions request these
     capabilities through their brigade combat team (BCT), which normally allocate these resources
     based on the BCT’s priorities. The Air Force expeditionary base commander, through the
     COMAFFOR, should ensure the appropriate memoranda of understanding (MOUs) are in place
     with the JFLCC, JFSOCC, or JFC to allow the DFC access to joint capabilities on the same
     level and priority as a battalion AO commander.

     1.3.2. When the base boundary is constrained, the base commander retains a tactical base
     defense requirement in the portion of the BSZ that remains outside the base boundary (e.g., the
     shoulder-launched surface to air missile footprint). Accordingly, the base commander should
     coordinate/integrate proactive security operations with the appropriate AO commander or host



                                                8
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                        9

    nation commander to counter the standoff threat or assume the risk. The DFC will normally
    conduct this coordination/integration on behalf of the base commander.

    1.3.3. For terrain outside of the base boundary but within the BSZ, the DFC should coordinate
    with the area/host nation commander any request for joint/coalition forces necessary to conduct
    base defense tasks within the area. If area commander/host nation forces are not available due
    to competing requirements, then the DFC should coordinate with the appropriate area
    commander for base defense forces to conduct the base defense task. When base defense
    forces operate outside the base boundary, they should fall under the TACON of the appropriate
    AO commander in coordination with the host nation to ensure unity of effort to engage the
    enemy with a more compressed kill chain and to prevent fratricide.

    1.3.4. Joint and coalition forces entering the base boundary must inform the BDOC before they
    enter the base boundary and monitor the BDOC’s communication net while operating in the
    area. Prior coordination with the BDOC regarding forces planning to enter the base boundary
    will prevent conflicts with other operations and reduce the potential for fratricide.

    1.3.5. Deconflicting the tactical tasks of separate commanders is discussed in Chapter 2.




                                                9
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                         10

                                              Chapter 2

                                 BDOC TASK ORGANIZATION

2.1. BDOC Capabilities. The BDOC acts, on behalf of the base commander and DFC, as a C4ISR
center to integrate the application of offensive and defensive actions, both active and passive, taken
across the ground dimension of the force protection (FP) battlespace. As the organization charged
with integrating and coordinating all base defense efforts, the BDOC is responsible for enabling the
integrated base defense (IBD) objectives of see first, understand first, and act first (for additional
information on IBD, see AFTTP 3-10.1, Integrated Base Defense).

      2.1.1. The base defense effort for a joint forward operating location on a nonlinear battlefield
      bears striking similarities to the operational command and control issues faced by the air
      component commander at the operational level of war. Both missions require centralized
      control and decentralized execution of forces as well as capabilities brought together from
      several components. Both the BDOC and the air and space operations center (AOC) have
      some of these forces/capabilities, but must also integrate forces and support from other
      components and coalition partners. Additionally, both missions require predictive analysis to
      conduct direct action combat missions that counter expected enemy courses of action (COAs)
      and position forces to swiftly react to enemy forces that are not deterred or defeated by the
      proactive measures. Therefore, the BDOC can benchmark applicable lessons from some of the
      AOC’s battle-proven processes and methods.

      2.1.2. History shows the active force protection effort requires a C2 node focused on finding,
      fixing, tracking, targeting, engaging, and assessing (F2T2EA) threats to the base. However, the
      BDOC is a subordinate control center to the base commander’s mission command center (for
      an Air Force-commanded base, the ICC). Additionally, a separate C2 node (for an Air Force
      commanded base, the EOC) focused on complementary passive force protection and recovery
      after attack efforts is needed to deal with the massive amount of data/communication that
      occurs during an incident. The EOC and BDOC are coequal C2 nodes and part of the ICC.
      These relationships are discussed in detail in Air Force ICC guidance.

             2.1.2.1. These three C2 nodes must share a collaborative common operating picture
             (COP) to ensure the entire base defense effort is integrated and deconflicted. In this
             manner, the ICC, BDOC, and EOC act as one C2 capability for the installation
             commander, but do not overwhelm each other with data.

             2.1.2.2. The geographic locations of these three C2 nodes are less relevant to individual
             integration provided a real-time collaborative COP is utilized. If a COP is not possible,
             then consider geographically collocating these three operations centers, provided they
             are able to isolate themselves from each other adequately to focus on their span of
             control and do not create an unnecessary force protection vulnerability.

             2.1.2.3. Additionally, all joint/coalition forces operating in or adjacent to the BSZ
             should have access to the COP for unity of effort and situational awareness. In order to
             accomplish this, the COP must have the ability to integrate data from a variety of
             security levels (Unclassified, Coalition, Secret, and Top Secret/Sensitive


                                                 10
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                        11

            Compartmented Information (TS/SCI)) and display them in a coherent manner to the
            user at their authorized clearance level.

     2.1.3. For joint base operations, these arrangements remain the same if the Air Force provides
     the base commander. Tenant units are required to integrate into the base commander’s base
     defense plan.

     2.1.4. When the Air Force does not provide the base commander, the Air Force will retain a
     Security Forces (SF) C2 capability primarily for executing Air Force-specific security
     requirements. This SF C2 capability could be collocated with the BDOC, but only the BDOC
     controls base defense forces executing tactical tasks in the BSZ. When Air Force Security
     Forces are executing Service-specific security operations within the base, they fall under the
     command and control of the Air Force SF unit commander operating out of the BDOC to
     ensure consistency with ongoing base defense security operations.

     2.1.5. When Air Force forces and capabilities are performing BSZ tactical tasks, they will be
     under mission-specific TACON to the DFC through the BDOC when executing the mission
     with the exception of Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) counter threat
     operations (CTO). AFOSI CTO will be coordinated with and in communication with the
     BDOC to ensure mission focus, unity of effort, and safety of forces.

2.2. BDOC Deployability. In order to effectively support expeditionary warfare, BDOC capabilities
should be deployable. The BDOC should be included in the first command center capability
established during air base opening to ensure the active defense of Air Force assets as they deploy
into the expeditionary operating location. BDOC capability is scalable and when first established
may be as simple as the DFC and a radio operator. An air expeditionary wing (AEW) is most
vulnerable to attack during the initial deployment of forces; an added benefit to the enemy is a
tactical action could result in the strategic effect of preventing the deployment/sustainment of US
Forces into the theater.

     2.2.1. Only at bases where an Air Force commander is designated as the base commander by
     the JFC does the Air Force need to provide the BDOC as part of base command responsibility.
     At locations where the Air Force is a tenant on other Service-hosted bases (preferably where air
     operations are not routine) the Air Force should be prepared to provide a continuous liaison in
     the host Service BDOC as well as BDOC staffing manpower or other enabling capabilities
     commensurate with the Air Force’s “fair share” of base defense force responsibility.

     2.2.2. BDOC capability should be postured in scalable UTCs to provide initial and full
     operational capability to deployment locations whether they are steady-state expeditionary
     operating locations or operating locations opened for a specific, short-term mission.

     2.2.3. BDOCs should also be scalable based on the factors of METT-TC. A more robust threat
     will require a more robust staff to handle an increased volume of workload and span of control.
     Additionally, the presence of more robust threats could require additive modules such as the
     capability to facilitate organic and sister Service indirect fires; facilitate close air support
     (CAS); recognize and respond to chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and high-yield
     explosives (CBRNE); or conduct post-attack crater analysis. These capabilities may not reside



                                                11
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                         12

     in the core BDOC UTC but should be task identified as a force module and, as such, personnel
     should train together during the pre-deployment training cycle.

     2.2.4. Just as the Air Force organizes the air and space expeditionary force (AEF) into
     separate capability packages (air and space expeditionary task forces [AETF]) to sustain
     expeditionary operations, expeditionary BDOCs should be organized, trained, and equipped to
     support the expected AEF force structure.

2.3. BDOC Organization. Exact BDOC organization and manning depends on the joint
warfighting team present on an operating base, according to the responsibility each component shares
in the defense of the location. As such the DFC will exercise command and control over all
personnel assigned to the BDOC (with the exception of tenant liaisons). This ensures unity of
command with a single command and control architecture and a single commander for the integrated
base defense effort.

     2.3.1. At a minimum, major tenant organizations identified by the base commander should
     provide the BDOC with a liaison representative.

     2.3.2. Based on component-specific capabilities, other components on the base may bring
     mission-specific capabilities to the BDOC that should be utilized to enhance the unity of
     command and capabilities of the base defense effort. While these capabilities may not be
     required to be present in the BDOC continually, these capabilities should be attached with a
     specification of TACON or provided in direct support to the base commander for base defense
     purposes. Shared capabilities should be responsive to requests from the BDOC for assistance
     commensurate with other component priorities.

     2.3.3. A BDOC is a tactical operation center for integrating fires and effects, not a squadron
     unit control center. Accordingly, the S-1 and S-4 functions that are part of a squadron staff are
     not part of the BDOC so they are not discussed in this TTP.

     2.3.4. Since the BDOC is a C2 center for commanding or controlling forces executing tactical
     tasks, it only requires those functions necessary to the C2 mission. The typical BDOC
     organization is outlined in figure 5.




                                                 12
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                                      13


Figure 5. Typical BDOC Organization.


                                              Base Commander
            Control
            Coordination                 Defense Force Commander
                                         (DFC may appoint a BDOC OIC to
                                         manage daily operations if required)


              Liaisons
        (e.g. Host Nation, Sister
                                                                                       Base Tenant Unit
              Services, etc.)                                                              Liaisons




                  Intelligence                     Future                          Current          Mission Specific
                  Fusion Cell                  Operations Cell                  Operations Cell     Capability Cells
                     (S-2)                          (S-5)                           (S-3)

                              Mission
                              Support


                              Analysis

                              Collection
                              Management



2.4. Intelligence Fusion Cell. The intelligence fusion cell provides the base defense force with
analyzed or vetted all-source information that drives effective force protection decisions and
operations. The intelligence fusion cell is inherently multi-disciplined but does not need to possess
all capabilities locally. Many of these capabilities can be obtained through theater and strategic
reachback. This cell should provide the DFC with the ability to predict enemy COAs based on initial
and continuous intelligence preparation of the battlespace (IPB). This cell must have situational
awareness of events throughout the base’s area of interest (that area where tactical intelligence
information must be immediately available to the base defense force in order for the base to be able
to effectively counter enemy COAs).

     2.4.1. Effective intelligence and counterintelligence efforts are critical to identifying,
     analyzing, and disseminating threat information to the DFC. Potential threats to the base may


                                                            13
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                          14

    include: conventional military units, special forces, foreign intelligence agents and services,
    terrorist groups, aggressive civil populations, cyberterrorists, criminal elements, extremist
    groups or insider threats, and anti-government and hate groups. The enemy may use weapons
    such as: mortars, rockets, man-portable air defense systems (MANPADS), computer viruses,
    and CBRNE material and agents. Considering the wide range of possible threats, Intelligence
    Fusion Cell members should focus on developing force protection intelligence (FPI), defined as
    analyzed, all-source information concerning threats to DoD missions, people or resources
    arising from terrorists, criminal entities, foreign intelligence and security services and opposing
    military forces. Commanders should develop critical information requirements to guide FPI
    work supporting their decision-making and operations. Intelligence Fusion Cell personnel
    should coordinate with their cross-functional counterparts (e.g., AFOSI, Security Forces,
    Antiterrorism Officers, etc.) to ensure FPI requirements are satisfied. Once FPI has been fused,
    personnel should swiftly disseminate it to the S3, S5, DFC, base commander, and throughout
    applicable intelligence channels.

    2.4.2. Intelligence Fusion Cell members will collect and analyze pertinent information to
    support force protection missions. The cell should possess the capability to gather theater and
    tactical level intelligence on relevant threats affecting the base, perform analysis, and provide
    mission support to force protection operations. The cell should be organized, trained, and
    equipped to support DFC planning. Members will perform collections, analysis, and mission
    support tasks. Once collected and analyzed, it is crucial that this intelligence feedback into
    operations and intelligence reporting chains.

           2.4.2.1. Collection Management. Cell members will need to prioritize intelligence
           requirements, task organic assets and coordinate with JTF and theater intelligence
           collection managers to employ ISR assets and capabilities to support IBD.
           Additionally, they will need to coordinate development of a Reconnaissance and
           Surveillance Plan utilizing local assets. Cell personnel should also seek to develop
           joint-force and coalition intelligence liaisons with the intent of gathering sufficient
           information to build a complete threat picture.

           2.4.2.2. Analysis. Cell members will use analytical methods (e.g., IPB, trends and
           events analysis, link analysis, etc.) to assess the impact of asymmetric threats on Air
           Force missions. During this process, they will take advantage of all available
           information to include counterintelligence, SIGINT, Measurement and Signatures
           Intelligence (MASINT), Imagery Intelligence (IMINT), and HUMINT. Analytical
           products should include shoulder-launched surface to air missile, indirect fire (IDF) and
           direct fire assessments; intelligence estimates; enemy COAs; and should support the
           construction of target intelligence packages for high value targets (HVTs) and high
           value individuals (HVIs).

           2.4.2.3. Mission Support. Cell members will conduct a variety of mission support
           tasks. Of primary importance, the cell will brief the DFC and staff on enemy COAs.
           They will also need to perform ground combat focused mapping functions, develop
           target intelligence packages for FP operations, and conduct pre- and post-mission
           briefings/debriefings as needed. These briefings may include situation briefs, COA
           briefs, guard-mount/ground patrol/convoy briefings, and direct action mission briefs.


                                                 14
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                        15

             2.4.2.4. Reporting. Cell members may need to provide intelligence input to the
             following reports: Mission Reports (MISREPS), Intelligence Reports (INTREPS), Spot
             Reports (SPOTREPS) and other after-action reports. They will also write a daily
             intelligence summary covering all significant events within the AO and write the
             intelligence input to daily Situation Reports (SITREPs).

     2.4.3. Manning of this cell should minimally consist of Air Force Intelligence, AFOSI, and
     Security Forces specialists. Component capabilities should be added to this cell as their fair
     share of the base defense effort dictates or if they bring a required special capability to the
     operation.

     2.4.4. For task organization, it is important to note AFOSI, Army Military Intelligence, and the
     Naval Criminal Investigative Service are the only military organizations authorized to conduct
     counterintelligence activities and operations in accordance with DOD Directive 5240.2, DOD
     Counterintelligence.

2.5. BDOC Future Operations Cell Processes. The future operations cell performs a function
similar to an AOC’s Strategy and Combat Plans Divisions, but for base defense at the tactical level.
The future operations cell takes the intelligence fusion cell’s analysis and devises a strategy to
counter enemy activities proactively for the next 24 hours and beyond. Additionally, the future
operations cell identifies expected shortfalls in defense force capability and recommends appropriate
requests for forces or capabilities for the base commander to forward to the AEW Commander and
up the chain of command to the JFC. As a base becomes fully operational, the future operations cell
is also responsible for drafting and coordinating the base defense plan.

     2.5.1. The first step in building a BSZ ground tasking order (GTO) is to formulate a strategy.
     The future operations cell translates the DFC’s BSZ strategy into a rolling GTO for the next 24
     hours. The GTO postures and deconflicts forces for what is anticipated to provide a strategy
     “playbook” to execute. The GTO should integrate, deconflict and document all planned
     friendly force activities within the BSZ to include those planned activities of the JFACC,
     JFLCC, and JFSOCC, and with host nation activities. When constructing a BSZ GTO, the
     BDOC will coordinate with the JFSOCC/JFLCC forces operating in the AOs in or adjacent to
     the BSZ to minimize risks to all forces. The BSZ GTO must also consider the effects required
     to support the AOC’s Air Tasking Order (ATO). The GTO should be flexible and able to be
     modified during execution in response to urgent circumstances and/or developing situations.

     2.5.2. Using the postulated enemy COAs from the intelligence fusion cell, the future
     operations cell determines the best methods to counter the enemy COAs by building an
     operations plan. These methods can include the following types of tactical tasks within the
     BSZ:

             2.5.2.1. Occupy named areas of interest to deny the enemy the ability to maneuver and
             canalize through avenues of approach or engage the air base from key terrain.

             2.5.2.2. Conduct random checkpoints on avenues of approach within the BSZ to
             identify enemy forces prior to their mounting an attack.

             2.5.2.3. Conduct offensive combat operations within the BSZ to shape the battlespace.


                                                 15
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                          16

                   2.5.2.3.1. Integrate these operations with planned effects of non-kinetic
                   operations to further shape the battlespace.

           2.5.2.4. Conduct aggressive patrols to dominate the BSZ, thereby deterring/denying
           enemy activities while providing tactical information to the intelligence fusion cell.

                   2.5.2.4.1. These activities can be conducted with or without AFOSI, joint
                   collection teams and Army civil affairs teams responsible for conducting
                   operations in the area.

                   2.5.2.4.2. Conducting patrols with AFOSI and civil affairs personnel provides
                   these personnel with often required tactical force protection for their operations.

                   2.5.2.4.3. Conducting patrols with AFOSI and civil affairs personnel also helps
                   defense force personnel to be perceived as interested in the good order and
                   prosperity of the local community. Such perceptions could increase the
                   likelihood that community members will then provide tactical intelligence
                   information and thus aid in denying enemies within the BSZ freedom of
                   movement.

                   2.5.2.4.4. Plan and execute tactical reconnaissance and surveillance activities
                   within the named areas of interest utilizing patrols, sharpshooter teams,
                   observation posts, small unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), etc.

           2.5.2.5. Conduct ambush operations at likely enemy infiltration routes and weapons
           caches to fix and engage enemy forces as they move into position to attack.

           2.5.2.6. Position precision engagement teams and quick reaction forces strategically
           within the BSZ to fix and engage enemy forces attempting to conduct an attack.

           2.5.2.7. Coordinate use of local or regional strategic communication or information
           operations activities to deter enemy forces, enhance local cooperation and mitigate
           unintended effects of operations in the BSZ.

    2.5.3. After the BSZ operations plan strategy is approved by the DFC for the next 24 hour
    period, the future operations cell integrates the capabilities of the JFLCC’s and JFSOCC’s
    forces, host nation forces, available joint fires, and base defense forces to match capabilities to
    tactical tasks.

           2.5.3.1. Due to capabilities and their overlapping mission to conduct surface operations
           within the BSZ, the future operations cell should initially strive to integrate capabilities
           and overlapping tactical tasks from the JFLCC and JFSOCC commanders. Missions
           that can serve both the surface and base security missions are mutually beneficial.
           Depending on the availability of forces and current mission taskings of land component
           forces, many base security tactical tasks can be conducted by land component forces.
           However, surface component commanders should also answer to the JFLCC or
           JFSOCC for their primary tasks, so these commanders may not always be able to
           provide enough capability for base defense commensurate with the base commander’s


                                                 16
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                          17

         ability to assume prudent risk. If the land component commander is unable to provide
         enough capability toward base defense then the Air Force will need to leverage the
         appropriate capability either through the request for forces process or by bringing
         additional organic Air Force capabilities forward. The availability of forces from other
         component commanders for base defense purposes must occur through predetermined
         and preestablished command relationships. Guidance should flow from the JFC’s intent
         for base defense responsibilities.

         2.5.3.2. Host nation forces should also be utilized as much as possible to conduct base
         security missions within the BSZ. These forces are often most familiar with the local
         populace and terrain. BSZ tactical tasks conducted by host nation forces can often be
         conducted jointly with base defense forces; such operations build bonds of friendship as
         well as provide important tactical intelligence to the intelligence fusion cell. However,
         combined patrols face special challenges such as language barriers, cultural issues, and
         training differences that the DFC should address. Combined patrols should only be
         undertaken with senior leader commitment from both nations as well as combined
         briefings and rehearsals to reduce the possibility of unfortunate incidents.

         2.5.3.3. Joint and coalition fires available for use in the BSZ should be planned for and
         coordinated in advance through the appropriate tactical operations center or AOC to
         ensure their availability and deconflict the requirements to leverage these capabilities.
         The base commander is responsible for ensuring coordination for these capabilities is
         planned for and established with the relevant C2 centers. These fires include, but are
         not limited to:

                 2.5.3.3.1. Joint and combined indirect fires (rockets, artillery, and mortars).

                 2.5.3.3.2. CAS. Regardless of Service, joint air bases should not have
                 dedicated CAS assets unless the JFC determines it necessary. Air bases can
                 request immediate CAS missions for defense of the base.

         2.5.3.4. Those BSZ tactical tasks not yet planned for should be analyzed to determine
         what the risk to air operations and friendly personnel would be if any follow-on tasks
         were not executed. Base defense forces should be utilized to conduct the remaining
         tactical tasks until the level of risk to operations and personnel is acceptable to the base
         commander. The future operations cell should be cautious to ensure the tactical
         requirements of the task do not exceed the capabilities of the base defense force tasked
         to conduct the mission. If a capability/task mismatch occurs another capability should
         be used for the mission. Dedicated (full-time) base defense forces come from four
         sources:

                 2.5.3.4.1. Base defense forces provided by the base commander’s Service as
                 part of the force protection package operating at the base. These forces
                 normally conduct Service-specific security requirements, such as protection of
                 major weapon systems or logistical areas.




                                              17
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                         18

                    2.5.3.4.2. Base defense forces provided by the host nation. These forces and
                    their responsibilities are normally outlined in a status of forces agreement or
                    memorandum of agreement.

                    2.5.3.4.3. Base defense forces apportioned by the JFC. These forces are
                    normally under the TACON of the base commander with mission-specific and
                    routine taskings provided to the DFC by the base commander.

                    2.5.3.4.4. Base defense forces provided by tenants operating on the joint base.
                    These forces normally conduct Service-specific security requirements, but may
                    be able to provide additional base defense capability depending on the threat
                    facing the base.

            2.5.3.5. When base defense tactical tasks routinely exceed capabilities, the DFC should
            upchannel a request for additional forces to the base commander for consideration up
            the component chain of command to the JFC. This request for forces (RFF) is a key
            process for mitigating an unacceptable level of risk to air operations. RFF is also
            required if the base threat assessment anticipates need for CAS C2 requiring a Joint
            Terminal Attack Controller (JTAC). If the RFF for additional dedicated base defense
            capability is denied, then the base commander should devise other means to mitigate the
            risk, accept the risk, or cease the operations at risk.

            2.5.3.6. The future operations cell should coordinate the mission specific requirements
            and expectations for each tactical task. This advanced coordination (24 hours in
            advance of operations) is done with liaisons of all forces that plan to operate within the
            BSZ. This daily scheduling and deconfliction meeting is essential to ensure coordinated
            and integrated operations within the BSZ. Conducting a coordination meeting in
            advance also ensures adequate time is available for the tactical leaders to issue the
            proper operations order to their troops, and reduces the possibility of fratricide.

     2.5.4. Once the BSZ tactical tasks are assigned, all the expected friendly activities within the
     BSZ are integrated together into a BSZ GTO. This GTO is the basis of operations for the
     following 24 hours and is the product the future operations cell provides to the current
     operations cell for execution.

2.6. BDOC Current Operations Cell Processes. The current operations cell monitors GTO
execution and exercises C2 of all forces operating within the base boundary on behalf of the DFC.
This is the traditional S-3 function of Air Force base defense and Army units. The current operation
cell also maintains current situational awareness of joint/coalition operations outside the base
boundary, but within the BSZ. Furthermore, it monitors the status of base defense forces operating
outside the base boundary under the TACON of adjacent area commanders for base defense tasks.

     2.6.1. The current operations cell acts as the C2 communications network control station for
     the base boundary. Other forces operating within or transiting through the base boundary must
     identify themselves to the BDOC C2 communications net and continue to monitor the BDOC
     net to prevent fratricide and deconflict fires.




                                                 18
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                           19

    2.6.2. To ensure unity of command and unity of effort for base defense, the DFC exercises
    TACON for all forces conducting base defense tactical tasks within the base boundary. The
    current operations cell provides this command and control capability for all forces conducting
    these tasks, regardless of nationality or Service.

           2.6.2.1. This does not include AFOSI CTO. While not under direct TACON of the
           DFC, AFOSI CTO will be coordinated with the DFC and in communication with the
           BDOC to ensure mission focus, unity of effort, and safety of forces.

    2.6.3. For effective operations, the liaison officers from all agencies providing critical
    capabilities within the BSZ or agencies routinely operating in the BSZ should be present in the
    current operations cell. This ensures rapid communication between affected agencies. These
    liaisons should be knowledgeable of their parent unit’s operations within the BSZ as well as
    able to provide critical information for deconfliction of fires. If the capabilities are specific to
    base defense, the personnel tasked to operate in the operations cell should be attached to that
    cell rather than merely acting as liaisons, in order to provide greater responsiveness to the
    needs of the ongoing operations.

    2.6.4. The current operations cell executes the following key processes for the DFC:

           2.6.4.1. Execute the GTO and strategy from the future operations cell.

           2.6.4.2. Act as the base boundary net control station.

                   2.6.4.2.1. Receive reports from subordinate units.

                   2.6.4.2.2. Upchannel reports as required.

                   2.6.4.2.3. Communicate and coordinate with contiguous units.

           2.6.4.3. Track friendly forces within the BSZ.

           2.6.4.4. Integrate local and organic ISR capabilities into real time situational awareness
           of the base battlespace.

           2.6.4.5. Dispatch/coordinate friendly forces as required.

           2.6.4.6. Call for required joint fires.

           2.6.4.7. Formulate and execute strategy to counter real-time enemy actions.

                   2.6.4.7.1. Formulate a COA taking into account METT-TC.

                   2.6.4.7.2. Garner DFC or shift officer in charge (OIC) (if delegated this
                   authority by the DFC) approval to execute a COA.

                   2.6.4.7.3. Execute a COA.

                   2.6.4.7.4. Reconstitute forces as required.


                                                     19
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                           20

            2.6.4.8. Notify the ICC when active defense measures are complete and post attack
            response and recovery measures are required.

2.7. Mission Specific Capability Cell. In order to be effective, a BDOC requires certain enablers.
They include, but are not limited to, the following:

     2.7.1. BDOC Equipment Support. The BDOC is a tactical operations center and does not
     execute the administrative control responsibilities of a unit. However, at least one member of
     the BDOC staff should be designated with the task of establishing and coordinating equipment
     requirements for BDOC operations.

     2.7.2. Spectrum Management (frequency allocation).

            2.7.2.1. BDOC operations rely heavily on communications equipment to include
            sensors and assessment devices that are linked to the BDOC. Therefore, a BDOC
            should have a designated individual to interface with the installation frequency spectrum
            management agency to ensure adequate capability is authorized for operations. This
            person does not need to be a frequency spectrum manager, but must be knowledgeable
            of all operating frequency requirements and able to interface with host nation personnel
            (as applicable) to secure use of the required frequencies.

            2.7.2.2. The most effective means for working out these frequency allocation issues is
            during the planning phase of the operation. Therefore the BDOC staff should ensure
            their frequency requirements are made known to the geographic combatant
            commander’s J6 and included in the Joint Communication Electronic Operating
            Instruction (JCEOI) and are vetted through the applicable host nation channels.

     2.7.3. Other enablers may be required based on specific mission requirements.                Some
     examples are:

            2.7.3.1. Translators/Interpreters (contract or military).

            2.7.3.2. Crater analysis teams.

            2.7.3.3. Fire support element (FSE).

                    2.7.3.3.1. Identifies and plans for use of joint/coalition indirect fires and CAS in
                    support of base defense.

                    2.7.3.3.2. Once a target is identified, the FSE facilitates the indirect fire or CAS
                    mission through the theater air control system (TACS) governed by JP 3-09.3,
                    Joint Tactics, Techniques and Procedures for Close Air Support. Indirect fire
                    capability requires specialized expertise normally associated with artillery
                    forward observers and joint fires observers (JFOs). C2 of CAS requires a JTAC
                    or Forward Air Controller (Airborne) (FAC(A)) to perform terminal attack
                    control. The artillery observer, JFO, or an unmanned aerial system may be
                    utilized to provide real-time targeting data for the JTAC or FAC(A).



                                                  20
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                        21

                    2.7.3.3.3. Integration of non-organic indirect fires and CAS ensures economy of
                    force by preventing the defense force from bringing an organic capability that is
                    already available as part of the joint warfighting team.

            2.7.3.4. Fire direction center to control assigned/attached fires and effects.

            2.7.3.5. Top Secret (TS)/Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) facility with
            associated communications systems and connectivity.

2.8. BDOC Staff Size Considerations. While every base in the Air Force should execute its IBD
C2 functions by mirroring the deployable BDOC key processes, the size of the BDOC staff is
mission- and situation-dependent. The basic UTC for BDOC staff should be built for a high threat in
an austere environment and should be tailored based on actual threat/conditions.

     2.8.1. Expeditionary BDOCs should be established assuming a baseline threat of irregular
     forces operating in a non-linear battlefield. Therefore, an expeditionary Air Force BDOC
     should be able to conduct BSZ integration and tactical C4ISR (for base defense) for an AEW in
     a high threat environment. The BDOC should have enough personnel to conduct continuous
     operations in an austere operational environment. Separate functional UTCs may be tasked in
     a force module built to support the BDOC.

     2.8.2. Additional capabilities are included in the planning phase of the deployment or as the
     situation dictates.




                                                  21
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                            22


                                               Chapter 3

                       PLANNING, TRAINING, AND REQUIREMENTS

3.1. BDOC AEF Force Structure Requirements. In the nature of expeditionary, non-linear
warfare, BDOC capabilities should be deployable and apportioned to meet the force structure needs
of the AEF.

     3.1.1. Just as the Air Force organizes the AEF into separate capability packages to sustain
     expeditionary operations, expeditionary BDOCs should be organized, trained, and equipped to
     support the expected AEF force structure. For the Air Force to open and operate an additional
     operating location above this requirement might cause the Air Force to reach forward into
     future AEF capabilities to meet this surge requirement.

     3.1.2. The Air Force employment of BDOCs and the number organized, trained, and equipped
     for deployable operations should be considerations in planning AEF capabilities.

     3.1.3. The COMAFFOR should also ensure adequate IBD C2 capability will deploy with Air
     Force forces. For those air operations occurring on a joint base where the Air Force does not
     provide the base commander, a subset of IBD C2 capability may be provided by the Air Force
     to pay its “fair share” for defense operations, especially in light of the fact air operations drive
     higher defense requirements.

3.2. Training and Certification. BDOC personnel must be task certified. This task certification
includes individual tasks based on assigned duties and responsibilities in the BDOC as well as tasks
executed as a team.

     3.2.1. Training on required tasks should occur during the predeployment phase of the AEF
     cycle.

     3.2.2. Home station individual and team training should culminate in a certification exercise
     that simulates the expected deployed environment and forces as closely as possible. Whenever
     practical, BDOC attendance at regional training centers (RTCs) should be paired to allow this
     C2 element to train with all other SF UTCs deploying to the same location. Since BDOC
     operations are inherently joint, predeployment certification should occur in a realistic, joint
     environment such as a mission rehearsal exercise when possible.

     3.2.3. The Air Force Security Forces Center establishes individual and team task list for
     BDOC personnel and, if tasked to support an AEF requirement, will certify associated tasked
     UTCs, ensure they are incorporated into appropriate Mission Capability Statements
     (MISCAPs) and that unit’s status is reflected correctly in the AEF UTC reporting tool.

     3.2.4. Air Force intelligence personnel should attend either the RTC intelligence training block
     or the Force Protection Intelligence Formal Training Unit (FP IFTU) prior to deploying in a FP
     UTC.




                                                  22
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                             23

3.3. Equipment Requirements. In the nature of expeditionary, non-linear warfare, BDOC
equipment should be deployable and maintainable in austere conditions.

     3.3.1. Communications.         BDOCs should be equipped with secure, flexible, tactical
     communication equipment able to communicate with the tactical teams and air support of all
     members of the joint and coalition warfighting team. The most common capabilities of
     coalition partners must also reside in the BDOC’s equipment package to ensure host and allied
     armed forces are integrated into BSZ operations. While the BDOC staff will require some
     tactical radio capabilities, the primary requirement is a suite of base station and tactical repeater
     communications systems to communicate to all of the forces operating in the BSZ.
     Additionally the BDOC should also have secure phones, satellite communications (SATCOM),
     SIPRNet and JWICS capabilities as the mission requires. To the maximum extent possible,
     these various communications systems should be consolidated into a simplified interface;
     ideally one that links directly to the COP. This would allow the controllers to visually “see”
     the location and identity of personnel who are making transmissions. The joint doctrine
     requirement for a redundant BDOC facility should also be considered when building the
     BDOC UTC’s equipment package.

     3.3.2. Sensors and Assessment Devices. The BDOC should be equipped with long-range,
     persistent tactical surveillance and reconnaissance technologies. These sensors and imagers
     should be able to operate and provide tactical ISR capability for the base commander
     throughout the entire BSZ if properly emplaced on key terrain and avenues of approach. These
     tactical ISR assets should be interoperable with JFLCC forces operating in/around the BSZ as
     well as being able to push/pull to AOC resources.

            3.3.2.1. An Air Force BDOC should be equipped with the sensors and assessment
            devices needed to provide situational awareness for the BSZ. For planning purposes,
            the baseline BDOC ISR package should be able to provide tactical situational awareness
            10 kilometers outside of the installation perimeter in deployed environments. In
            CONUS, standard SF sensors may be used; however, use of traditional ISR assets will
            require additional coordination and review for Intelligence Oversight considerations.
            Additional scalable sensor and imagery equipment UTCs should also be established to
            provide more robust capabilities based on threat or terrain. Additional theater and
            national ISR assets may also provide BDOC personnel with BSZ situational awareness.

            3.3.2.2. The BDOC must be equipped with a suite of equipment able to integrate the
            sensor and organic imagers into a single, common operating picture. In order to
            accomplish this, the BDOC should have a system or process in place that is capable of
            rapidly sharing between systems that operate on different classification levels
            (unclassified, coalition classified, US-only secret and top secret). This COP should also
            be able to integrate other Air Force tactical sensors as well as common ISR feeds (e.g.,
            Predator, Global Hawk, and Joint Surveillance and Target Attack Radar System
            (JSTARS)). Lastly, this system should be able to integrate tactical ISR feeds from
            common joint and coalition ISR systems such as tactical UAVs and aerostats.




                                                   23
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                       24

           3.3.2.3. The BDOC’s COP should also be able to integrate friendly force tracking
           capabilities that either are manually entered or rely on transponder data. These tracking
           capabilities must be interoperable with JFLCC forces operating in/around the BSZ.

    3.3.3. Collaborative COP. The BDOC C2 suite should provide machine-to-machine interface
    to the ICC and EOC for a collaborative planning and information COP to reduce the demands
    for voice reporting. This collaborative COP should also be available to the command centers
    of other forces routinely operating in the BSZ. In order to accomplish this, the BDOC should
    have a system or process in place that is capable of rapidly sharing between systems that
    operate on different classification levels (e.g. unclassified, coalition, secret, and TS/SCI).

    3.3.4. Secure/Non-Secure Communications. IBD operational information becomes an OPSEC
    issue when linked to a particular military mission or operation. While the information itself is
    not normally classified, in the context of a mission it should be protected as part of the
    combatant commander’s overall OPSEC program to deny information to the enemy.



                                              KEVIN J. SULLIVAN, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support




                                               24
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                       25


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Publications.
   1. AFDD 2-4.1, Force Protection
   2. Air Force Policy Directive 31-3, Air Base Defense
   3. Air Force Instruction 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force Protection
   4. Air Force Instruction 31-301, Air Base Defense
   5. AFTTP 3-10.1, Integrated Base Defense (IBD)
Joint Publications.
   1. Joint Publication 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms
   2. Joint Publication 3-0, Doctrine for Joint Operations
   3. Joint Publication 3-10, Joint Security Operations in a Theater
   4. Capstone Concept for Joint Operations, Version 2.0
   5. Protection Joint Functional Concept
Other Publications
   1. Army-Air Force OIF/OEF Joint Airfield Operations Study, Joint Airfield/Airbase Initial
      Impressions Report, March 2005
   2. Fox, Roger P. Air Base Defense in the Republic of Vietnam: 1961-1973. Office of Air Force
      History. 1979
   3. Fighting Air Bases Under Attack: Forward Operating Bases (Draft), RAND Corporation
      Study, October 2005
   4. HQ ACC/SF Force Protection Study (Iraq Trip Report), Col Mary Kay Hertog, December
      2003
   5. Shalapak, David A & Vick, Alan, Check Six Begins on the Ground: Responding to the
      Evolving Ground Threats to U.S. Air Force Bases, RAND Corporation, 1995
   6. Vick, Alan, Snakes in The Eagle’s Nest: A History of Ground Attacks on Air Bases, 1940-
      1992, RAND Corporation, 1995

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEF--Air and Space Expeditionary Force
AETF--Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force
AEW--Air Expeditionary Wing
AFOSI--Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFTTP--Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
AO--Area of Operations


                                                25
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                           26

AOC--Air and Space Operations Center
ART--AEF Reporting Tool
ATO--Air Tasking Order
BCT--Brigade Combat Team
BDOC--Base Defense Operations Center
BSZ--Base Security Zone
C2--Command and Control
C4ISR--Command, Control, Communication, Computer, Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance
CAS--Close Air Support
CBRNE--Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosives
CENTRIX--Combined Enterprise Regional Information Exchange System
COA--Course of Action
COMAFFOR--Commander of Air Force Forces
CONUS--Continental United States
COP--Common Operating Picture
CTO--Counter Threat Operations
DFC--Defense Force Commander
EOC--Emergency Operations Center
FAC(A)--Forward Air Controller (Airborne)
F2T2EA--Finding, Fixing, Tracking, Targeting, Engaging, and Assessing
FOB--Forward Operating Base
FSE--Fire Support Element
GTO--Ground Tasking Order
HUMINT--Human Intelligence
HVI--High Value Individual
HVT--High Value Target
IBD--Integrated Base Defense
ICC--Installation Control Center
IDF--Indirect Fire
IMINT--Imagery Intelligence
INTREP--Intelligence Report
IO--Information Operations
IPB--Intelligence Preparation of the Battlespace
JCEOI--Joint Communication Electronic Operating Instruction
JFC--Joint Forces Commander
JFLCC--Joint Force Land Component Commander
JFO--Joint Fires Observer
JFSOCC--Joint Force Special Operations Component Commander
JSTARS--Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System
JP--Joint Publication
JTAC--Joint Terminal Attack Controller
JTF--Joint Task Force
JWICS--Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System
MANPADS--Man-portable Air Defense System
MASINT--Measurement and Signatures Intelligence



                                             26
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                           27

METT-TC--Mission, Enemy, Terrain and Weather, Troops and Support Available, Time
  Available, and Civilian Considerations
MISCAP--Mission Capabilities
MISREP--Mission Reports
MOU--Memorandum of Understanding
NIPRNet--Non-secure Internet Protocol Router Network
OIC--Officer In Charge
OPCON--Operational Control
RFF--Request for Forces
RTC--Regional Training Center
SAA--Senior Airfield Authority
SATCOM--Satellite Communications
SF--Security Forces
SIGINT--Signals Intelligence
SIPRNet--Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SITREP--Situation Report
SPOTREP--Spot Report
TACON--Tactical Control
TACP--Tactical Air Control Party
TACS--Theater Air Control System
TS/SCI--Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information
TTPs--Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
UAV--Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
UTC--Unit Type Code

Terms

Area Command--A command which is composed of those organized elements of one or more of the
Armed Services, designated to operate in a specific geographical area, which are placed under a
single commander. (JP 1-02)

Area of Influence--A geographical area wherein a commander is directly capable of influencing
operations by maneuver or fire support systems normally under the commander’s command or
control. (JP 1-02)

Area of Interest--That area of concern to the commander, including the area of influence, areas
adjacent thereto, and extending into enemy territory to the objectives of current or planned
operations. This area also includes areas occupied by enemy forces who could jeopardize
accomplishment of the mission. (JP 1-02)

Base Boundary--A line that delineates the surface area of a base for the purpose of facilitating
coordination and deconfliction of operations between adjacent units, formations, or areas. (JP 1-02)
[The base boundary is not necessarily the base perimeter, rather it should be established based upon
the factors of mission, enemy, terrain and weather, troops and other support available, time
available (METT-T), specifically balancing the need of the base defense forces to control key terrain
with their ability to accomplish the mission.] {Italicized definition in brackets is not included in the



                                                  27
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                           28

JP 1-02 definition of base boundary, but found in the text of JP 3-10 as clarification of the base
boundary}

Base Defense Operations Center--A command and control facility established by the base
commander to serve as the focal point for base security and defense. It plans, directs, integrates,
coordinates, and controls all base defense efforts. Also called BDOC. (JP 1-02).

Base Security Zone--The area outside the base perimeter from which the base may be vulnerable
from standoff threats (e.g. mortars, rockets, MANPADS). The base commander is responsible for
identifying the base security zone and coordinate with the host nation or area commander for the base
security zone to be identified as the base boundary. If the base boundary does not include all of the
terrain of the base security zone, the base commander is still responsible for either mitigating (though
coordination with the area commander of host nation) or accepting the risks of enemy attack from the
area the terrain outside the base boundary. Base security zone is an Air Force-specific term that
should be used intra-Service only. Also called BSZ.

Common Operating Picture--A broad view of the overall situation as reflected by situation reports,
aerial photography and other information or intelligence. Also called COP. (AFI 10-2501)

Defense Force Commander--The senior Air Force commander responsible for the air base normally
delegates operational authority to conduct integrated defense to the defense force commandeer. The
Defense force commander exercises command and control through an established chain of command
and directs the planning and execution of base defense operations. Also called DFC. (AFTTP 3-
10.1).

Emergency Operations Center--The physical location at which the coordination of information and
resources to support domestic incident management activities normally takes place. An EOC may be
a temporary facility or may be located in a more central or permanently established facility, perhaps
at a higher level of organization within a jurisdiction. EOCs may be organized by major functional
disciplines (e.g., fire, law enforcement and medical services), by jurisdiction (e.g., Federal, State,
regional, county, city, tribal) or by some combination thereof. Also called EOC. (Installation
Control Center Enabling Concept)

Fires--The effects of lethal or nonlethal weapons. (JP 1-02)

Integrated Base Defense--The integrated application of offensive and defensive action, both active
and passive, taken across the ground dimension of the force protection battlespace to achieve local
and area dominance in support of force protection. Also called IBD. (AFDD 2-4.1)

Installation Control Center--The Installation Control Center provides the installation commander a
single, consolidated C2 center from which to monitor and execute the installation’s missions, to
include specific tenant, joint and combined missions for which the installation commander bears
supporting responsibility. In general, all Installation Control Center functions are already being
performed by assigned personnel. The Installation Control Center functionally aligns and may help
consolidate the personnel now performing these functions independently at each installation. There
is no change to those traditional “on call” positions such as the Emergency Operations Center



                                                  28
AFTTP 3-10.2 1 MARCH 2008                                                                          29

(formerly known as the Survival Recovery Center). Depending on the operational and threat
situation, the Emergency Operations Center, or any other “on-call” function, may be manned only
during times of crisis or emergency. Also called ICC. (Installation Control Center Enabling
Concept)

Intelligence Preparation of the Battlespace--An analytical methodology employed to reduce
uncertainties concerting the enemy, environment, and terrain for all types of operations. Intelligence
preparation of the battlespace builds an extensive database for each potential area in which a unit
may be required to operate. The database is then analyzed in detail to determine the impact of the
enemy, environment, and terrain on operations and presents it in graphic form. Intelligence
preparation of the battlespace is a continuing process. Also called IPB. (JP 1-02)

Senior Airfield Authority--An individual designated / appointed by the component responsible for
airfield operations at the direction of the JFC. This individual is responsible for the control,
priorities, operation, and maintenance of an airfield to include the runways, associated taxiways,
parking ramps, land, and facilities whose proximity affect airfield operations. Inherent in the ability
to manage these responsibilities is the early designation of the Senior Airfield Authority, his
participation in the planning phases and the task to develop a formal Security Plan to address security
requirements for airfield operations. Also called SAA (Air Base Opening Enabling Concept)




                                                  29
