BY ORDER OF THE                                               AIR FORCE TACTICS, TECHNIQUES,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                             AND PROCEDURES 3-10.3

                                                                                 22 DECEMBER 2008
                                                                 Certified Current on, 15, January 2014
                                                                                       Tactical Doctrine

                                                      INTEGRATED DEFENSE COUNTERTHREAT
                                                                        OPERATIONS (CTO)


____________________________________________________________________________________
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading on the e-Publishing website
                   at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFOSI                                                       Certified by: SAF/IG (Lt Gen Sams)
                                                                                               Pages: 15
____________________________________________________________________________________
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through
the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

PURPOSE: This Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTP) document describes the
activities the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) employs in support of Integrated
Defense (ID). AFOSI conducts counterintelligence and criminal investigations and operations in order
to find, fix, track, and neutralize enemy threats. These activities promote Air Force operations.

APPLICATION: This publication applies to regular Air Force military and civilian personnel and Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) personnel when published in the
AFRCIND 2 and ANGIND 2. The doctrine in this document is authoritative, but not directive.

SCOPE: This Air Force TTP describes command and organizational relationships, execution using
functional capabilities, and training requirements to conduct effective Counterthreat Operations (CTO).
While these TTP principles are focused on expeditionary operations in high threat locations, the tactical
doctrine principles remain the same for home-station operations.
AFTTP 3-10.3     22 DECEMBER 2008                                                                           2


                                                Chapter 1

                     COUNTERTHREAT OPERATIONS (CTO) OVERVIEW

1.1.    Overview. AFMD-39 directs AFOSI to find, fix, track, and neutralize enemy threats in
order to create a sustained permissive environment for air, space, and cyberspace operations.
AFOSI utilizes its five core capabilities in support of this mission directive. These are: Detect and
Mitigate Threats; Engage Foreign Adversaries and/or Threats Offensively; Conduct Major Criminal
Offense Investigations; Provide Global Specialized Services; and Protect Critical Technologies and
Information. CTO are intelligence-driven operations utilizing information derived from multiple
intelligence and counterintelligence sources. These operations provide commanders tactical situational
awareness, drive force protection conditions, and forewarn of possible attacks. Within the US Air
Force, AFOSI executes CTO by integrating all AFOSI capabilities into the Air Force "kill chain" cycle
to achieve the desired effects. AFOSI operational activities seamlessly collect, fuse and disseminate
relevant threat information from a broad array of sources on a continual basis. Successful CTO
execution requires strong collaboration and coordination between AFOSI personnel and direct action
forces to effectively neutralize enemy threats. CTO tactical doctrine is a compilation of knowledge and
expertise and describes the appropriate AFOSI role in integrated defense (ID) in hostile, uncertain, and
permissive environments.

   1.1.1. The following activities are conducted in support of CTO; counterintelligence (CI)
   collections, analysis, investigations, offensive and defensive CI operations, law enforcement
   activities, evidence collection, liaison, threat detection, functional services such as technical services,
   polygraph, clinical psychology, protective service operations (PSO), surveillance, counter-
   surveillance, surveillance detection, tactical debriefing, field interviews, and defensive capabilities in
   cyberspace.

   1.1.2. CTO Planning. AFOSI units should develop effective CTO plans to support an effects-based
   approach to operations (EBAO). “An effects-based approach to military operations means taking
   action against enemy systems so as to create specific effects that contribute directly to desired
   military and political outcomes.” (AFDD-2). Defining the battlespace environment is critical to
   conducting successful CTO i.e., Intelligence Preparation of the Battlefield (IPB). CTO plans consist
   of, but are not limited to, a unit’s mission, map layout illustrating areas of concern/areas of
   influence, focused collection requirements, identified threats and potential adversary courses of
   action (COA).
AFTTP 3-10.3     22 DECEMBER 2008                                                                      3


                                               Chapter 2

                     ORGANIZATION AND COMMAND RELATIONSHIPS

2.1.   Organization. AFOSI prepares and organizes combat-ready forces to meet the needs of the Air
Force. This implies a high level of training, flexibility in organization and equipment, and professional
leadership. Although a standard force structure is not realistic for all contingencies, a deployed AFOSI
force should have the following elements to effectively conduct CTO in concert with Service or joint
command goals and objectives.

   2.1.1. Leadership. Deployed AFOSI expeditionary leaders report directly to the senior agent
   deployed who is part of the COMAFFOR staff.

   2.1.2. Special Agents. AFOSI should ensure that deployed agent personnel have the requisite pre-
   deployment training to conduct CTO activities.

   2.1.3. Special Agent Specialists. Some AFOSI personnel have received specialized training and
   perform a specialized mission. AFOSI should organize and deploy specialists such as polygraph
   examiners, technical service technicians, computer crime investigators, CI case officers, and forensic
   science consultants to maximize combat effectiveness.

   2.1.4. Client Server Administrators (CSA). Deployed CSA personnel should have the requisite
   training and security clearances to conduct support functions that enable the AFOSI unit or
   personnel to conduct the CTO mission.

   2.1.5. Tactical Security Elements (TSE). Freedom of movement is crucial to conducting successful
   CTO. In hostile and some uncertain environments, AFOSI units and personnel should conduct CTO
   with dedicated security elements. A TSE is a squad-size element that provides the capability,
   equipment, and firepower to travel independently of other ground maneuver units. Forces for TSE
   may come from organic AF units, or may be provided by other service or coalition forces.

   2.1.6. Analysts. AFOSI units should have embedded analysts with the requisite skill and training to
   analyze enemy threats. AFOSI embedded analysts should continuously gather and fuse relevant
   threat information from a broad array of sources. CI analysis helps focus collection and targeting
   activities.

   2.1.7. Linguists. AFOSI units should have embedded linguists, specializing in the languages spoken
   in the operational environment. The linguists should be vetted and have appropriate security
   clearances.

2.2.    Command Relationships. AFOSI maintains command and control over those forces assigned
or attached to an AFOSI unit. Command relationships in a joint environment for AFOSI operations are
derived from Joint Publications 1, Doctrine for the Armed Forces of the United States; 2-01.2, Joint TTP
for Counterintelligence and HUMINT Operations; 3-07.2, Joint TTP for Antiterrorism; and 3-10, Joint
Doctrine for Security Operations. Command authority for AFOSI forces conducting CTO is delegated
from the Joint Force Commander (JFC), through the commander of Air Force forces (COMAFFOR), to
AFTTP 3-10.3     22 DECEMBER 2008                                                                      4


the designated senior agent deployed. Administrative control (ADCON) for AFOSI forces remains
within the Air Force chain of command at all times.

Figure 2.1. Command Relationships (JP 1, AFDD 2).



                                     COMAFFOR
                                                                  Other Service Forces


                           AEW/CC                 AFOSI Senior Agent
   AEG/CC for                                         Deployed
    ILO forces
                        Defense Force/CC           AFOSI Detachment


                          Base Defense Ops
                               Center
                                                 AFOSI Forces ILO other Service
                                                   forces, filling RFF billets


                               OPCON                     TACON                      Support




   2.2.1. The COMAFFOR exercises operational control (OPCON) over AFOSI CTO activities
   supporting force protection (See Figure 2.1) via the designated senior agent deployed. The Secretary
   of the Air Force retains responsibility for law enforcement, CI investigations, and attendant matters,
   and exercises this responsibility through the Commander, AFOSI. In the case of forces attached to
   another Service to act in lieu of (ILO) that Service’s forces, OPCON may be delegated to the Air
   Force commander holding OPCON over all ILO forces.

   2.2.2. AFOSI personnel not attached to an Air Expeditionary Task Force (AETF) who are
   performing the CTO mission in a Joint Operational Area (JOA) will be under the operational control
   of the AFOSI senior agent deployed (e.g., personnel providing support to a contingency response
   group/contingency response element).

   2.2.3. When the Air Force is the force providing TSE support to AFOSI, tactical control (TACON)
   of a TSE is assigned to the supported AFOSI detachment commander or Special Agent in Charge
   (SAIC) via the AFOSI senior agent deployed. This ensures continuity of mission execution and
   operational security. The SFS Commander retains OPCON and ADCON of TSE personnel. TSE
   supported missions must be jointly planned by AFOSI and TSE personnel to identify the objectives
   and evaluate risks associated with the proposed operation. Conflicts should be resolved by the
AFTTP 3-10.3    22 DECEMBER 2008                                                                   5


   installation-level AFOSI and SFS commanders. During mission execution, the TSE patrol leader
   has TACON of the security mission to include directing convoy operations to and from the
   objective, as well as directing combat operations if the convoy comes under attack. The senior
   AFOSI special agent on the mission has TACON of operational CTO activities.

   2.2.4. AFOSI detachment commanders or SAICs will coordinate their unit’s CTO activities in
   hostile and uncertain environments with the appropriate base operations center (e.g., Base Defense
   Operations Center (BDOC), Tactical Operations Center (TOC), etc.) and maintain communications
   with the BDOC to facilitate freedom of movement, unity of effort, and safety of forces. AFOSI
   personnel, when operating in a joint/combined environment, must understand the rules of
   engagement (ROE), or the Rules for the Use of Force (RUF) established by the joint force
   commander.
AFTTP 3-10.3     22 DECEMBER 2008                                                                     6


                                              Chapter 3

                                    CTO EXECUTION CYCLE

3.1.    The CTO Execution Cycle. Air Force CTO contributes to an acute awareness of the operating
environment to include Intelligence Preparation of the Battlefield (IPB) and incorporates the full range
of functions/activities (figure 3.1) AFOSI uses to find, fix, track and neutralize the enemy. CTO
activities help create a sustained permissive environment for air, space, & cyberspace operations. CTO
capabilities are infinitely variable depending on their application combined with the prevailing threat,
threat state, environment, friendly forces available, ROE, RUF, applicable laws, and other factors that
characterize an operational area. The following sections define the CTO execution cycle.

Figure 3.1. The Counterthreat Operations Umbrella.




           COUNTERTHREAT
             OPERATIONS

  COUNTERINTELLIGENCE                                   SURVEILLANCE (physical)
         COLLECTIONS                                    SURVEILLANCE DETECTION
         OPERATIONS                                     DEBRIEFINGS/FIELD INTERVIEWS
         INVESTIGATIONS                                 TECHNICAL SERVICES
         ANALYSIS                                       EVIDENCE COLLECTION
  CFSO/MSO                                              POLYGRAPH
  LIAISON                                               PROTECTIVE SERVICE OPERATIONS
  THREAT DETECTION/IDENTIFICATION                       LAW ENFORCEMENT
  THREAT REPORTING


3.2. The five phases of the CTO Execution Cycle: Find, fix, track, neutralize, and assess.

   3.2.1. Find. The find phase requires clearly designated guidance. This guidance is typically
   provided via established Priority Intelligence Requirements (PIR) and associated collection
   requirements. These requirements drive CI collection planning and operations. CI collections lead
   to the detection of current and emerging targets. Tailored all-source analysis drives and focuses CI
   collections activities. AFOSI personnel should be familiar with the multiple targeting cycles present
   in a joint/combined operating environment.

       3.2.1.1. In all situations, to include time sensitive targeting (TST), AFOSI forces conducting
       CTO will not engage in direct action activities. Instead, AFOSI disseminates information to
       direct action units or operations centers.
AFTTP 3-10.3     22 DECEMBER 2008                                                                         7


   3.2.2. Fix. The fix phase uses analysis and prioritization to determine an emerging target is worthy
   of engagement. It may begin when the emerging target is detected or soon afterwards. When the
   emerging target is detected, sensors (human source networks, ISR platforms such as the
   Predator/Reaper), liaison, specialist activities, and information operations are focused to confirm the
   target’s identity and precise location. Target location and other information should be accurately
   refined to permit tracking and neutralization. The completion of the fix phase results in a confirmed
   target tracked with a CTO named operation.

   3.2.3. Track. Tracking is done with the initiation/continuation of specific and directed CI
   collection and investigative activities. Tracking is also accomplished with the employment of
   specific ISR platforms. Information obtained during this phase is compiled and documented in a
   comprehensive target package.

   3.2.4. Neutralize. The neutralize phase begins after collected information is determined to be
   credible. Actionable intelligence or a comprehensive target package may be provided to a direct
   action authority for neutralization of the threat. AFOSI activities in this phase may include: positive
   identification (PID), surveillance (physical, technical or both), apprehension (during criminal
   investigations), recruitment, influence operations, computer network exploitation, and dissemination
   of actionable intelligence to direct action units to support exploitation, seizure, sensitive site
   exploitation, cordon and search, detention, or capture/kill operations.

       3.2.4.1. In hostile and uncertain environments, AFOSI should coordinate with maneuver units
       within the battlespace for target execution. Following the execution of a CTO target package,
       AFOSI special agents may participate in site exploitation (search). Additionally, special agents
       should participate in and/or contribute to tactical questioning and document exploitation efforts.

   3.2.5. Assess. Tactical assessments determine the effectiveness of executed CTO activities. The
   principal question answered during the assess phase is whether desired effects and objectives were
   achieved. In cases of fleeting targets, quick assessment may be required in order to make
   expeditious re-attack recommendations.

3.3.    Reporting. CTO reports contribute to commanders’ overall awareness of the operational
environment. AFOSI reports should be disseminated to the intelligence and law enforcement
communities, as appropriate, at all levels and during all phases of the CTO execution cycle. These
reports include but are not limited to, suspicious incident reports (SIRs), intelligence information reports
(IIRs), comprehensive target packages, analytical products, etc.
AFTTP 3-10.3   22 DECEMBER 2008                    8



Figure 3.3. The CTO Execution Cycle (AFDD2-1.9).
AFTTP 3-10.3     22 DECEMBER 2008                                                                      9


                                                  Chapter 4

                                                 TRAINING

4.1. Conducting CTO missions can be inherently dangerous. For this reason, all efforts should be
made to maximize training. Training is key to mission effectiveness. Effective ground combat skills are
imperative to survival in hostile or uncertain environments. Initial and recurring field training on
perishable skills is vital.

4.2. The USAF Special Investigations Academy Counterthreat Operations Course (CTOC) trains
AFOSI agents in realistic scenarios to perform in high-risk locations more efficiently and effectively.
This training is a team-centered, operationally intense, execution-based immersion course designed to
train agents in core deployment skills. The course curriculum is focused on perishable skill sets used in
hostile or uncertain environments. All military and civilian AFOSI personnel are required to attend
mandatory advanced training, in accordance with AFOSI policy, prior to a contingency deployment or
assignment.

4.3. Information Collection, Records, and Forms.

   4.3.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.

   4.3.2.     Records. The program records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this
   publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363 and disposed of in accordance with
   the AFRIMS RDS located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

   4.3.3. Adopted and Prescribed Forms:

       4.3.3.1. Adopted Forms. AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request and AF
       IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

       4.3.3.2. Prescribed Forms. No prescribed Forms are implemented by this publication.



                                                    RONALD F. SAMS, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                    The Inspector General
AFTTP 3-10.3     22 DECEMBER 2008                                                                      10


                                                 Attachment 1

                 GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Administrative Control. Direction or exercise of authority over subordinate or other organizations in
respect to administration and support, including organization of Service forces, control of resources and
equipment, personnel management, unit logistics, individual and unit training, readiness, mobilization,
demobilization, discipline, and other matters not included in the operational missions of the subordinate
or other organizations. Also called ADCON (JP 1-02)

Analysis. The conversion of processed information into intelligence through the integration, evaluation,
analysis, and interpretation of all source data and the preparation of intelligence products in support of
known or anticipated user requirements. (JP 2-01)

Areas Of Concern/Interest. (joint) That area of concern/interest to the commander, including the area
of influence, areas adjacent thereto, and extending into enemy territory to the objectives of current or
planned operations. This area also includes areas occupied by enemy forces who could jeopardize the
accomplishment of the mission. (JP 2-03)

Areas of Operations. (joint) An operational area defined by the joint force commander for land and
maritime forces. Areas of operations do not typically encompass the entire operational area of the joint
force commander, but should be large enough for component commanders to accomplish their missions
and protect their forces. (JP 3-0)

Combat Intelligence. (joint) That knowledge of the enemy, weather, and geographical features
required by a commander in the planning and conduct of combat operations. (JP 1-02)

Counterintelligence (CI). Information gathered and activities conducted to protect against espionage,
other intelligence activities, sabotage, or assassinations conducted by or on behalf of foreign
governments or elements thereof, foreign organizations, or foreign persons, or international terrorist
activities. (JP 2-0)

Counterintelligence Force Protection Source Operations (CFSO). Collection activities conducted by
CI personnel to provide Force Protection support and answer DoD and US CENTCOM Priority
Intelligence Requirements (PIR) and standing DoD Counterintelligence Requirements. CFSO are only
conducted outside the United States and its territories and usually use foreign nationals as sources.
CFSO respond to local command requirements for Force Protection and do not fall within the purview
of DCID 5/1, Espionage and Counterintelligence Activities Abroad, for national level coordination and
approval. (AFTTP 3-10.X)

Countersurveillance. Technique designed to protect an intelligence operation from countersurveillance
(surveillance) personnel. Those measures, active or passive, taken to detect, prevent, or deceive hostile
surveillance. (JP 2-0)

Counterthreat Operations (CTO). The employment of AFOSI capabilities to find, fix, track, and
neutralize enemy threats in order to create a sustained permissive environment for air, space, and
cyberspace operations. (AF TTP 3-10.X)
AFTTP 3-10.3      22 DECEMBER 2008                                                                          11



Defensive Cyberspace Operations. The use of specialized techniques and procedures by trained
Computer Crime Investigators to conduct cyber based investigations and operations into computer and
networked systems, and conduct digital evidence analysis in support of criminal, counterintelligence and
counterthreat operations to gain attribution, and identify cyber based threats to computer and network
systems and DoD personnel. (AFTTP 3-10.X)

Direct Action. Short-duration strikes and other small-scale offensive actions conducted as a special
operation in hostile, denied, or politically sensitive environments and which employ specialized military
capabilities to seize, destroy, capture, exploit, recover, or damage designated targets. Direct action
differs from conventional offensive actions in the level of physical and political risk, operational
techniques, and the degree of discriminate and precise use of force to achieve specific objectives. Also
called DA. See also special operations; special operations forces. (JP 1-02)

Hostile Environments. A hostile environment is “an operational environment in which hostile forces
have control, as well as the intent and capability to effectively oppose or react to the operations a unit
intends to conduct.” (JP 1-02)

Liaison - That contact or intercommunication maintained between elements of military forces or other
agencies to ensure mutual understanding and unity of purpose and action (JP 1-02).

Military Sourcing Operations. Military source operations are “the collection from, by and/or via
humans, of foreign and military and military-related intelligence.” Also called MSO. (JP 2-01.2).

Neutralize. As pertains to military operations, to render ineffective or unusable. To render enemy
personnel or material incapable of interfering with a particular operation. To render safe mines, bombs,
missiles, and booby traps. To make harmless anything contaminated with a chemical agent. (JP 1-02)

Offensive Counterintelligence Operations. Definition classified, see DoD Instruction S-5240.9,
"Support to the Department of Defense Offensive Counterintelligence Operations (U)", November 28,
1989

Operational Control. The authority to perform those functions of command over subordinate forces
involving organizing and employing commands and forces, assigning tasks, designating objectives, and
giving authoritative direction necessary to accomplish the mission. Also called OPCON. (JP 1-02)

Permissive Environment. Operational environment in which host country military and law
enforcement agencies have control as well as the intent and capability to assist operations
that a unit intends to conduct. (JP 3-0)

Positive Identification. A reasonable certainty that the individual or object of attack is a legitimate
military target in accordance with the applicable rules of engagement (ROE).

Protective Service Operations. The use of specialized techniques and procedures by trained personnel to
ensure a principal’s personal safety and security during a specific event, while traveling, or over an extended
period of time. When required, a PSO can be tailored to provide 24-hour protection. (AFOSIMAN 71-144)
AFTTP 3-10.3     22 DECEMBER 2008                                                                        12


Rules of Engagement. (joint) Directives issued by competent military authority that delineate the
circumstances and limitations under which United States forces will initiate and/or continue combat
engagement with other forces encountered. (JP 1-02)

Surveillance. Surveillance is the systematic observation of aerospace, surface, or subsurface areas,
places, persons, or things, by visual, aural, electronic, photographic, or other means. (JP 1-02)

Tactical Control. Command authority over assigned or attached forces or commands, or military
capability or forces made available for tasking, that is limited to the detailed direction and control of
movements or maneuvers within the operational area necessary to accomplish missions or tasks
assigned. Tactical control is inherent in operational control. Tactical control may be delegated to, and
exercised at any level at or below the level of combatant command. Tactical control provides sufficient
authority for controlling and directing the application of force or tactical use of combat support assets
within the assigned mission or task. Also called TACON. (JP 1)

Tactical Questioning. Direct questioning by any DoD personnel of a captured or detained person to
obtain time-sensitive tactical intelligence at or near the point of capture or detention and consistent with
applicable law (DoD Directive 3115.09).

Target Packages.        (Air Force) Targeting information provided by AFOSI to direct action
units/authorities (Army, SOF, Coalitions Forces, Host Nation Police etc.) for the purposes of identifying
and neutralizing threats. (AFTTP 3-10.X)

Threats Identified. (Air Force) Individuals linked to insurgent groups, terrorist groups, or intelligence
services that present a threat to USAF installations/resources. (AFTTP 3-10.X)

Technical Services. This support encompasses two distinct mission sets; the AF's Technical
Surveillance Countermeasures (TSCM) Program and AFOSI's technical surveillance program. AFOSI
is responsible for executing the AF's TSCM Program (ref. AFMD 39), which includes techniques and
measures to detect, neutralize, and/or exploit a wide variety of foreign technical surveillance
technologies that are used to obtain unauthorized access to classified and sensitive information. AFOSI
also provides technical surveillance support, including covert video and audio surveillance, vehicle
tracking, photo surveillance, lock bypass, wiretap and other esoteric surveillance techniques. (DoDI
5240.05, AFOSIMAN 71-103 Volume 3)

Threat Assessments. The Joint Operation Planning and Execution System function that provides:
timely warning of potential threats to US interests; intelligence collection requirements; the effects of
environmental, physical, and health hazards, and cultural factors on friendly and enemy operations; and
determines the enemy military posture and possible intentions. (AFTTP 3-10.X)

Uncertain Environments. An uncertain environment is “an operational environment in which host
government forces, whether opposed to or receptive to operations that a unit intends to conduct, do not
have totally effective control of the territory and population in the intended operational area.” (JP 1-02)
AFTTP 3-10.3     22 DECEMBER 2008                                                                        13


Vulnerability Assessments. A Department of Defense, command, or unit-level evaluation (assessment)
to determine the vulnerability of a terrorist attack against an installation, unit, exercise, port, ship,
residence, facility, or other site. Identifies areas of improvement to withstand, mitigate, or deter acts of
violence or terrorism. Also called VA. (JP 3-07.2)
AFTTP 3-10.3     22 DECEMBER 2008                                                                   14


                                                Attachment 2

                                               SKILLS LIST

The following list contains examples of skills AFOSI agents should be trained on prior to conducting
CTO:

               Tactical Vehicle Movements                Tactical Communications
               Tactical questioning                      Tactical Night Driving
               Advanced Firearms & Tactics               Tactical Foot movements
               Tactical Combat Casualty Care             Small Unit Tactics
               Unarmed Combat & Defensive Tactics        Antiterrorism/Off Road Driving
               Individual Equipment & Fieldcraft         Land Navigation Map & compass
               Global Positioning System                 Vehicle Search & Security
               Night Vision Techniques/procedures        Falcon View Mapping software
               Deployed concept of Ops/Future            Deployed Office Coord/Liaison
               Deployed Stress                           Developing Standard Operating Procedures
               Operational Planning                      Counterintelligence Tactical Reporting
               Intelligence Information Reports          Working with Linguists
               Counterthreat Operations/FTX              Behavior Instruments/Dep CS Ops
               Surveillance                              Counter Surveillance
               Surveillance Detection                    Military Sourcing Operations
               Terrorism/Insurgency                      IED/VBIED Recognize & Defeat
               Threat Detection/Attack Recognition       HVI/HVT Packages
               Deployed Theater/Culture Orientation      Survival, Evasion, Resistance, & Escape
               Personal Security Operations              31 hours W/FLS
               Night Operations                          Foreign Weapons Familiarization
               Focused Physical Training program         Urban Operations
               Intro to the U.S. Army                    SF Tactical Security Element Conops
               SAP indoctrination

Non-AFOSI personnel directly supporting the CTO mission should be knowledgeable of basic CTO
principles in order to maximize interoperability between AFOSI and supporting agencies.
AFTTP 3-10.3    22 DECEMBER 2008                                                                   15


                                            Attachment 3

                                          READING LIST

The following is a list of recommend reading AFOSI personnel should accomplish prior to conducting
CTO:

AFDD 2, Operations and Organization, 3 Apr 2007
AFDD 2-3, Irregular Warfare, 1 Aug 2007
AFDD 2-4.1, Force Protection, 4 Sep 2004
AFPD 31-1, Physical Security,
AFTTP 3-10.1, Integrated Base Defense,
AFMAN 10-100, Airman’s Manual, 1 Jun 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFOSI Manual 10-401, AFOSI Operations Planning & Execution Systems, 26 Feb 1998
AFOSI Manual 71-114, Surveillance Operations, 29 Mar 2005
AFOSI Manual 71-144 V3, Protective Service Operations, 18 Oct 2006
AFOSI Manual 71-144 V4, Antiterrorism Services, 28 Mar 2003
AFOSI Manual 71-144 V7, Counterintelligence Collections, Analysis, & Production, 27 Oct 2004
DoD Directive 3115.09, DoD Intelligence Interrogations, Detainee Debriefings, and Tactical
Questioning, 3 Nov 05
Army Field Manual 3-24, Counterinsurgency, 15 Dec 2006
Army Field Manual 7-8, Infantry Rifle Platoon and Squad, 22 Apr 1992
Army Field Manual 7-10, The Infantry Rifle Company, 14 Dec 1990
Developing and publishing IIR’s (AFOSI IIR writing guide)
Joint Publication 1, Doctrine for the Armed Forces of the United States, 14 May 2007
Joint Publication 2-01, Joint & National Intelligence Support to Military Operations, 7 Oct 2004
Joint Publication 3, Joint Operations, 17 Sep 2006
Joint Publication 3-10, Joint Security Operations in Theater, 1 Aug 2006
OP Planning (WARNO, OPORD, FRAGO)
Standing DOD CI collection requirements
SCO Handbook Army Field Manual, Army FM 7-100, Opposing Force Doctrinal Framework &
Strategy, 1 May 2003
