              AIR FORCE TACTICS, TECHNIQUES
de                    AND PROCEDURES 3-34.1

                          1 NOVEMBER 2007




       SERVICES CONTINGENCY
     BEDDOWN AND SUSTAINMENT




          DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
BY ORDER OF THE         AIR FORCE TACTICS, TECHNIQUES
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE      AND PROCEDURES 3-34.1
                                         1 November 2007


                                                              Tactical Doctrine

                                SERVICES CONTINGENCY BEDDOWN
                                              AND SUSTAINMENT

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing
          website at: www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASIBILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: HQ USAF/A1SO                                 Certified by: HQ USAF/A1S
                                                          (Mr. Arthur J. Myers)
                                                                    Pages: 159

PURPOSE: The Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-34
series of publications provides Services (SV) planners the basic tools required to
identify and employ consistent standards and expectations for beddown devel-
opment and sustainment support for expeditionary bases. This AFTTP is not
intended to provide a definitive design or layout applicable for every type of
deployment.
APPLICATION: This publication applies to all Air Force (AF) military and
civilian personnel (including Air Force Reserve Command [AFRC] and Air Na-
tional Guard [ANG] units and members when deployed in Title 10 status). The
doctrine in this document is authoritative, but not directive.
SCOPE: The SV Community must be able to rapidly respond to the full-
spectrum of mission requirements within the Air and Space Expeditionary Force
(AEF) construct. This publication provides Component Headquarters SV plan-
ners, beddown officers and senior noncommissioned officers (SNCOs) informa-
tion on the overarching principles, processes, procedures, and organizational
framework through which SV plans, directs, and executes the support mission in
deployed conditions. An expanded list of resources used to develop this
AFTTP is in Attachment 1.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                          2
Chapter 1––INTRODUCTION                                                                7
        1.1.  Overview …………………………………………….                                              7
        1.2.  Services Doctrine …………………………………...                                       7
 Figure 1.1.  Service Doctrine Model ..............................................    8
        1.3.  The Command and Control (C2) Enabling Concept                            9
 Figure 1.2.  Air Force Components ……………………………..                                      10
 Figure 1.3.  MAJCOM-C and NAF-C Internal Structure ……….                              11
        1.4.  The AFFOR Structure ……………………………..                                       12
 Figure 1.4.  AFFOR Staff Structure …………………………….                                      13
        1.5.  Joint Operations and Sister Services Counterparts                       13
        1.6.  Interface with Component Forward and Rear
              Headquarters ………………………………………..                                          15
        1.7.  Upward Reporting Requirements …………………..                                 16
        1.8.  Accountability of Personnel and Resources ………..                         18
Chapter 2––BEDDOWN PLANNING                                                           20
        2.1.  Overview …………………………………………….                                             20
        2.2.  Deployed Planning Assumptions ……………………                                  20
        2.3.  Force Module Concept ………………………………                                       21
 Figure 2.1.  AETF Force Modules ……………………………......                                    21
        2.4.  Force Modules ……………………….….……..….. .                                     22
        2.5.  Planning for Sustainment………………………..…...                                 23
        2.6.  Beddown-Site Planning for Sustainment ….…….…..                          25
        2.7.  Quality of Life Planning …………………………….                                   25
Chapter 3––LOGISTICS                                                                  26
        3.1.  Overview …………………………………………….                                             26
        3.2.  War Reserve Materiel (WRM) ………………………                                    26
 Table 3.1.   BEAR Systems for FM Deployment                                          27
        3.3.  Contract Support …………………………………….                                        29
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                            3
        3.4.  Communications Equipment ………………………...                     31
        3.5.  Vehicles and Specialized Equipment ………………..               33
Chapter 4––FOOD SERVICES                                                35
        4.1.  Overview …………………………………………….                               35
        4.2.  Food Service WRM…………………………………..                           35
 Figure 4.1.  Exterior of Homestation and BEAR SPEKs ……...…             36
 Figure 4.2.  Interior of BEAR and Homestation SPEKs …………               37
 Figure 4.3.  Standard Configuration for BEAR 550 Kitchen ….....        39
 Figure 4.4.  Dining Tent for 1,100-Personnel ……………………                  40
 Figure 4.5.  Kitchen Configuration for 1,100 personnel …............   40
 Figure 4.6.  CDK with TEMPER Tent Section …………………..                    41
 Figure 4.7.  General Purpose Shelter ………………………….….                     42
        4.3.  Coalition/Host Nation Facilities …..…………………               42
        4.4.  Modular Facilities …………………………………...                       43
        4.5.  Rations & Bottled Water …………………………….                      43
 Table 4.1.   Feeding Goals for Standard Deployments ………..…             44
        4.6.  Sustainment and Quality of Life (QoL)……………...             45
 Figure 4.8.  Commercial Water Storage Tanks …………….…….                  53
 Figure 4.9   Special Occasion Meals …………….…….…………                      56
 Figure 4.10. Services Adjunct Food Contracts ……………….…..                57
 Figure 4.11. DFAC Storage Containers Provide a Barrier Wall ….         60
        4.7.  Contract Support ……………………………….……                          60
Chapter 5––LODGING AND LAUNDRY-LINEN                                    62
        5.1.  Overview ………………………………………...…..                            62
        5.2.  Lodging Operations……………………...…………...                      62
 Figure 5.1.  Small Shelter System ………………………….…….                       64
 Figure 5.2.  Medium Shelter System ……………………………..                       64
        5.3.  Sister Services Assets ………………..…………...…                   65
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                     4
 Table 5.1.  BEAR Housekeeping, Force Provider, and
             Camp 750 Sets ……………………………….….                        65
        5.4. Permanent Facilities ………………………………… 66
        5.5. Coalition/Host nation Local Assets …….……...…… 66
 Figure 5.3. Hangar Facility Used for Initial Field Lodging ……... 67
        5.6. Locally Constructed or Portable Modular Buildings .. 67
 Figure 5.4. Contract Support Used for Contingency Upgrades ..    68
        5.7. Site Layout ………………………………………..… 68
 Figure 5.5. Normal Layout by Groups ………………..………… 69
 Figure 5.6. Separate Lodging Community from Main Base …… 69
 Figure 5.7. Semi-Dispersed and Dispersed Billeting Blocks …… 70
        5.8. Laundry/Linen Operations ……………………..…… 72
 Figure 5.8. Self Help Laundry ………………………….……….. 73
 Table 5.2.  Planning Load Factors for Various Size EMEDS …... 75
        5.9. Sustainment and Quality of life Planning……..…….. 75
 Table 5.3.  Contingency Lodging––Basic Minimum Standards ... 77
Chapter 6––MORTUARY AFFAIRS                                       82
        6.1. Overview ………………………………………….… 82
        6.2. Current Death Program ………………………...…… 82
        6.3. Concurrent Death Program …………………….…… 82
        6.4. Temporary Interment ……………………….….…… 82
        6.5. Beddown operations …………………………….….. 84
        6.6. Roles and Responsibilities ……………………..…… 84
        6.7. Health and Safety Concerns ……………...…………. 84
        6.8. Flow of Remains ………….………………………… 86
 Figure 6.1. Flow of Remains ………….………………………… 86
        6.9. Facilities and Equipment ……………………………. 87
 Table 6.1.  LWRRG UTC Mortuary Supplies …………….…….. 88
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                           5
        6.10.   Search and Recovery …………………………...……                     89
        6.11.   Mortuary Affairs Decontamination Collection Point       90
        6.12.   Other than MADCP Operations …………………….                   90
Chapter 7––FITNESS AND SPORTS, RECREATION,
             LEARNING RESOURCE CENTER (LRC), AND
             EXCHANGE SUPPORT                                           92
        7.1.    Overview ……………………………………….……                             92
        7.2.    Force Module Phase …………………………………                        92
        7.3.    Beddown Support ………………………………….                          92
 Table 7.1.     WMP 1, Services Programming Chart ……………                 93
        7.4.    Facilities and Shelters …………………..….……….                 93
 Figure 7.1.    Interim Program versus Full Scale Fitness Facility …    94
        7.5.    Keeping Airmen Fit to Fight (Fitness) ..………..….         95
        7.6.    Recreation …………………………..……...………                         97
 Figure 7.2.    Determine What People Want and Get It ….……....          98
 Table 7.2.     List of Recreation Equipment and Supplies …….…          99
 Figure 7.3.    Casino Night …………………………….…………                          101
 Figure 7.4.    NAF Resale Operations …………………………....                   104
 Figure 7.5.    Morale Phones and Computers Boost Morale ….....        105
 Figure 7.6.    Professional Entertainment …………………..…....              107
        7.7.    Keeping Airmen Connected to Outside World …..          107
        7.8.    AAFES Resale Operations …………….…..……                    110
        7.9.    Robusting and Sustaining Operations …….…….             111
Chapter 8––PROTOCOL FIELD OPERATIONS                                   113
        8.1.    Overview ……………………………………..…..                           113
        8.2.    Unique Situations at a Beddown Operation ……...         113
        8.3.    Use of Facilities ……………………………….….                      116
        8.4.    Further Guidance ……………………………….                         116
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                 6
Chapter 9––HOMELAND SECURITY OPERATIONS                      118
        9.1. Overview ……………………………………..….....                 118
        9.2. Command and Control (C2)………………………               118
 Figure 9.1. Homeland Security Operations C2 ……………..….       118
 Figure 9.2. Notional Organizational Structure for JTF—
             Civil Support in USNORTHCOM …..………….….          119
        9.3. Services Role in Recovery Operations ………….….    120
 Figure 9.3. 10 FEMA Regions and ANG FSRTs ……………….           122
 Figure 9.4. Active Duty AEF FSRTs ……………………………               122
Attachment 1 Glossary of References and Supporting
             Information ……………………………..………….                  123
Attachment 2 Contract Considerations ..…………...…………..…        141
Attachment 3 Ration Planning/Population …………….………...         142
Attachment 4 Ration Storage Life vs. Temperature …….…..…..   144
Attachment 5 Manpower Requirements Matrix …………………            145
Attachment 6 Services Planning Factors ………………………….           147
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              7

                                 Chapter 1

                            INTRODUCTION

1.1. Overview. This AFTTP provides SV planners with an overview of the
beddown assets, tasks, and basic procedures required for AEF bare base op-
erations. It introduces the AEF concept of using Force Modules (FM) for
planning AEF deployments. While each deployment location has its special
requirements, there are common, basic approaches for providing services at
all locations. Adapt the layouts and procedures within this publication to
meet local conditions. Other branches of the US military’s Services and Mo-
rale, Welfare, and Recreation organizations may approach Joint Service bed-
downs differently. However, the basic requirements are similar and will be
addressed as they apply to AEF bare base deployments and the use of FMs.
Information on specific subjects will be provided in much great detail in sub-
sequent AFTTPs in this series.
1.2. Services Doctrine. SV doctrine can be thought of as a pyramid similar
to the one depicted in Figure 1.1. The multiple levels within the pyramid
demonstrate how to build an efficient and effective agile SV war fighting
force. The first layer of the pyramid sets the foundation for our SV profes-
sion by establishing tactical guidance. Performance of our tactical methodol-
ogy is measured against a standard to ensure high quality and efficient opera-
tions.
1.2.1. AF SV establishes these standards in conjunction with Component
Numbered Air Forces (hereafter referred to as NAF-C), Component Major
Commands (hereafter referred to as MAJCOM-C), and other professional
hospitality institutions.
1.2.2. After the standards and methodology are defined, the troops still need
to get to the fight. Therefore, the SV deployment philosophy involves a
building block approach of packaging together critical and non-critical skills
that are sized to support deployment location population increments.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               8

Figure 1.1. Services Doctrine Model.




1.2.3. SV is a warfighting organization and the timeless proven principles of
war are just as applicable to us as any other warfighting unit. Every warfight-
ing unit brings with it certain unique core capabilities. SV core capabilities,
or core competencies, are Feeding Operations; Lodgment of Forces; Mortu-
ary Affairs; Keeping Airmen Fit to Fight, Airmen Regeneration, Developing
and Connecting Airmen to the Outside World; and Hosting Official Func-
tions. All of the previous levels in the pyramid enable these five SV core
competencies. The competencies describe how SV organizes, trains, equips,
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              9

readies, positions, employs, sustains and recovers its forces. At the pinnacle
of the pyramid is the accomplishment of the SV missions: deploy and fight
and home station sustainment.
1.3. The Command and Control (C2) Enabling Concept. The Air Force
Forces (AFFOR) C2 Enabling Concept defines a MAJCOM-C and a NAF-C
headquarters. These elements were formerly called Air Force Component
Headquarters [AFCHQ] and War Fighting Headquarters [WFHQ]), respec-
tively. The MAJCOM-C and NAF-C headquarters organizations will be in-
tegrated into the existing MAJCOM-C and NAF-C structures defined in AFI
38-101, Air Force Organization. United States Air Forces Europe (USAFE),
Pacific Air Forces (PACAF) and Air Mobility Command (AMC) will func-
tion as MAJCOM-Cs (Figure 1.2). They will support the Unified Compo-
nent Command (UCC) at the strategic level of war. They will have subordi-
nate NAF-Cs that will function at the operational and tactical levels of war.
These NAF-Cs are 3rd Air Force in Europe (AFEUR), 13th AF in the Pacific
(AFPAC), 7th AF in Korea (AFKOR) and 18th AF under AMC’s transporta-
tion responsibility (AFTRANS). In addition, AFKOR will function at the
strategic level of war in its role as an AF component to United States Forces
in Korea (USFK). Please note that there is not a separate MAJCOM-C staff
within theses MAJCOMs. The MAJCOM staff performs MAJCOM-C tasks
and responsibilities at the strategic level.
1.3.1. Figure 1.2 shows the 9th AF under Central Command (AFCENT),
12th AF under Southern Command (AFSOUTH), 1st AF serving the North
American continent (AFNORTH), 7th AF in Korea (AFKOR), 8th AF Stra-
tegic-Global Strike (AFSTRAT-GS), 23rd AF’s Special Operations Forces
(AFSOF) and 14th AF’s strategic space component (AFSTRAT-SP). These
NAF-Cs perform both MAJCOM-C and NAF-C tasks and responsibilities
supporting the combatant commander (CCDR) at the strategic, operational
and tactical levels of war.
1.3.2. MAJCOM-C. The MAJCOM-C headquarters is commanded by the
AF component commander which is the senior AF component headquarters
element designed to support the AF component commander, at the strategic
level. The MAJCOM-C tasks and responsibilities (e.g. protocol, public af-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                 10

fairs, strategic level theater security cooperation [TSC], legal, etc.) at the
strategic level are accomplished by the MAJCOM staff.
Figure 1.2. Air Force Components.




1.3.3. NAF-C. The NAF-C headquarters supports the AF component com-
mander at the operational and tactical level. The NAF-C will include, but not
be limited to, an air operations center (AOC) weapons system and AFFOR
staff.
1.3.4. The MAJCOM-C (strategic) and NAF-C headquarters (operational
and tactical) functions are part of any AF component command structure.
However, the tasks and responsibilities of the MAJCOM-C and NAF-C
headquarters may be merged into one organization if and when feasible.
1.3.5. Mission of MAJCOM-C and NAF-C headquarters. The MAJCOM-C
and NAF-C headquarters must provide centralized command and control
over all AFFOR assigned or attached to the CCDR. MAJCOM-Cs and NAF-
C headquarters will be providing the CCDR visibility over Service force
activities, and contribute to joint theater solutions on a variety of issues, in-
cluding theater strategies, administration and logistics, personnel, security
cooperation, joint communications, joint basing, joint training, and prioriti-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                11

zation of resourcing efforts. This concept outlines a structure that enables the
Commander of Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR) to completely focus his/her
efforts and the efforts of the AFFOR staff and AOC on the priorities of the
CCDR or Joint Forces Commander (JFC), while minimizing the burden of
organize, train and equip functions (e.g. dormitory construction, lodging
management, etc.). These functions will be realigned to the appropriate
MAJCOM or a centralized functional organization. This concept also out-
lines the key C2 elements and tasks (the COMAFFOR, the COMAFFOR's
staff, and the AOC). Figure 1.3 shows the structure of the MAJCOM-C and
NAF-C organization. (Note: ISR in the below structure is Intelligence, Sur-
veillance and Reconnaissance).
Figure 1.3. MAJCOM-C and NAF-C Internal Structure.




1.3.6. Concept Principles of the MAJCOM-C and NAF-C headquarters. The
MAJCOM-C and NAF-C headquarters mission is to plan, command, control,
execute and assess air, space and information operations capabilities across
the full range of military operations.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              12

1.3.6.1. The MAJCOM-C and NAF-C headquarters have the capability to
plan, integrate and command and control our capabilities to deploy, main-
tain, sustain, employ and reconstitute or redeploy air and space power in
support of US and Unified Component Command (UCC) strategies. Each
MAJCOM-C and NAF-C headquarters is sized and tailored to the specific
mission and theater of operations. The NAF-C is able to plan, exercise, exe-
cute and assess across normalized steady-state operations. The NAF-C is
also able to surge to a wartime scenario until augmentation is available, mak-
ing maximum use of reachback and support relationships to minimize man-
power requirements.
1.3.6.2. Management functions are minimized or eliminated to enable the
CCDR to concentrate on component tasks and exercise command of as-
signed and attached forces. Management functions not retained at the
MAJCOM headquarters are transferred to lead commands or field operating
agencies that will support AF units as necessary to ensure all have the re-
quired capabilities to function. AF units (e.g., wings) have a “direct liaison
authorized” (DIRLAUTH) relationship with supporting MAJCOMs and field
operating agencies to assist with day-to-day management functions. The
DIRLAUTH relationships may change once units are chopped to a gaining
CCDR. The MAJCOM-C is responsible for establishing appropriate
DIRLAUTH relationships for the contingency environment and ensures the
COMAFFOR is aware and engaged in ensuring attached and assigned forces
have the resources necessary to complete their assigned tasks. This concept
addresses the structure and responsibilities of the MAJCOM-Cs and NAF-
Cs, not the MAJCOMs, centers and agencies. In the case where MAJCOM-C
functions are integrated into a MAJCOM (e.g. USAFE, Pacific Air Forces
[PACAF], AMC, Air Force Special Operations Command [AFSOC]) the
MAJCOM staff will accomplish strategic level component tasks and respon-
sibilities.
1.4. The AFFOR Staff. The AFFOR Staff consists of the A-Staff and Per-
sonal staff. They assist the COMAFFOR in TSC activities, service, joint and
combined exercise, planning, force beddown and sustainment. The AFFOR
staff is also responsible for the operational and administrative support func-
tions. The AFFOR staff is traditionally organized with a command section,
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                13

Personal staff, A-staff (A1 through A9), as well as a variety of cross-
functional teams that support the COMAFFOR as the Service component
commander. Its staff structure aligns with MAJCOM staff structures to the
maximum extent possible. An organization structure code used in both the
MAJCOM-C and NAF-C staff usually has the same title. The COMAFFOR
may link two-letter A-staff offices (e.g. A3/5, A4/7, A5/8 etc.). Figure 1.4 is
an example of the generic AFFOR A-Staff organization structure. SV fall
under the A1–Manpower and Personnel section (as A1S – SV).
Figure 1.4. AFFOR Staff Structure.




1.5. Joint Operations and Sister Services Counterparts. The US military
fights as a joint team. With its theater-wide perspective, the AF can readily
appreciate the challenge of synergistic integration of joint force capabilities.
To meet that challenge, SV planners must understand how joint forces are
organized and how the AF fits into that organization. Such an understanding
is crucial to properly supporting AF leaders as they bring the awesome capa-
bilities of air and space power to bear in achieving national security objec-
tives.
1.5.1. The President and Secretary of Defense (SecDef) exercise authority
and control of the armed forces through a single chain of command with two
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                14

distinct branches. The operational branch runs from the President, through
the SecDef, directly to the commanders of the UCCs. The administrative
branch runs from the President, through the SecDef directly to the secretaries
of the military departments. In the operational branch, the CCDRs of the
unified commands, are the vital link between those who determine national
security policy and strategy and the military forces who conduct the opera-
tions that achieve national strategic objectives. In the administrative branch,
the Service commanders are responsible for ensuring that their forces are
trained and equipped to carry out the missions directed in the operational
branch by the CCDRs, and their subordinate joint force commanders.
1.5.2. Joint forces reside in the operational branch of the chain of command,
and are designated as either a unified command, subordinate unified com-
mand, or joint task force. The President, through the SecDef––and with the
assistance of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS)––establishes
these Joint force commands to support and protect our nation’s interests. All
Joint force structures consist of a Joint Force Commander (JFC), a joint staff
(J-staff), and are normally composed of significant forces from two or more
military departments. Joint forces are established on either a geographic or
functional basis. Currently there are nine unified commands––five are geo-
graphically established and four are established functionally. Geographically
established joint commands have an area of responsibility (AOR). Function-
ally established joint commands provide functions, such as strategic lift and
space-based support, to other—usually geographic—JFCs.
1.5.2.1. At the top of the Joint force hierarchy is the unified command. It is a
Joint force command, with a broad and continuing mission under a single
CCDR. The CJCS transmits operational orders from the President and
SecDef to the unified CCDRs to perform military missions. The UCCs carry
out or direct missions in support of our national security, using the organiza-
tional structure they command, the forces provided them from the SV, and
the authority granted them by the President and SecDef. Part of that author-
ity is to establish subordinate organizations. When authorized by the Presi-
dent or SecDef, through the CJCS, CCDRs may establish subordinate unified
commands, also called sub-unified commands.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               15

1.5.2.2. Generally, sub-unified commands focus on specific areas of interest
within the larger command. Like unified commands, sub-unified commands
are established as either geographic or functional, have functions and re-
sponsibilities similar to those of unified commands, and operate on a con-
tinuing basis.
1.5.2.3. A third type of joint force is a joint task force (JTF). It is a joint
force command established to accomplish limited objectives, normally of an
operational nature. JTFs may be established by a unified commander, sub-
unified commander, or an existing JTF commander on a geographic or func-
tional basis. JTF commanders are responsible to the JTF-establishing author-
ity. JTF staffs are normally augmented with representatives from the estab-
lishing authority. Unlike unified and sub-unified commands, which operate
on a continuing basis, JTFs are dissolved when their mission has been com-
pleted or they are no longer required.
1.6. Interface with Component Forward and Rear Headquarters. The
US military is currently deployed to more locations than it has been through-
out history. SV personnel support operations ranging from war to other con-
tingencies such as peacekeeping and humanitarian efforts. One major lesson
learned from those operations is that, regardless of the phase of the opera-
tion, planners must be familiar with the command and supporting structure
of the theater, the supporting MAJCOM, AF and Department of Defense
(DoD) support agencies. With the growing number of countries being added
as deployment locations, it is becoming harder to identify all the various
lines of support across combatant theaters and areas of responsibility. Know
what resources are out there to help you. When you actually arrive at a loca-
tion, contact the various levels of command and support organizations to let
them know that your unit is there and then determine who does what for
whom and how and the best way to reach them (phone, fax, e-mail, message,
etc.). Each location is different and theater organizations can vary, some-
times even within the same operation.
1.6.1. Confirm what your theater’s supporting structure is and if they are the
lead for sustainment issues. Some forward units may primarily work bed-
down and initial operations, while more rearward units work sustainment.
Determine if there is a forward deployed operations center and supporting
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               16

base SV function for your theater; e.g. a Combined Air Operations Center
(CAOC). If not, contact the next office in the chain of command with a SV
staff (e.g., Central Command Air Forces-Rear at Shaw AFB). Once con-
tacted, establish who will provide functional direction and determine if
Headquarters Air Force Services Agency Operations Directorate (HQ
AFSVA/SVO) offices monitor or provide direct support for specific func-
tions (i.e., food ordering). Some commands and component commands may
brief you on current theater support methods prior to departing for theater.
1.6.2. Determine with Civil Engineering (CE) what the shelter replacement
policy is and who initiates what paperwork to upgrade shelters to other types
of facilities. Sometimes this may be solely a CE effort with SV input, or
other times it may be a combined SV, CE, Contracting, and Logistics Readi-
ness effort through a theater support office (which could be controlled by the
Army or Navy). AFPAM 10-219 V6, Planning and Design of Expeditionary
Airbases, is an excellent reference used by CE planners.
1.7. Upward Reporting Requirements. Certain reports are required during
field exercises and real world deployments. These reports may be required
daily or monthly, depending on the directive that governs each report. These
reports are important since the information they contain is used to make im-
provements to the overall operation. The following paragraphs describe in
detail what and when reports are required.
1.7.1. SV Situation Report (SV SITREP). The SV SITREP is a narrative
report that keeps addressees informed and enables higher levels of command
to prepare for potential effects of ongoing situations. SV reports are submit-
ted weekly, or more frequently if required, for the duration of the activity or
operation. SITREPs evaluate significant factors relating primarily to readi-
ness, programs, and logistics. The report’s content should highlight key ac-
tivities and build on previous reports. Duplicating or including information
to fill in the blank is not desirable—brevity is paramount. SV SITREPs are
required in accordance with (IAW) AFI 10-214, Air Force Prime RIBS Pro-
gram. The template for the report in located in AFI 10-214, Attachment 2.
1.7.2. After Action Reports (AAR) and Lessons Learned Reports. These
reports must be documented in the AF After-Action Reporting System
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                            17

(AFAARS). AFI 10-204, Readiness Exercises and After-Action Reporting
Program, provides procedures for documenting exercise and operations re-
sults, identifying and correcting problems, identifying trends, and dissemi-
nating results. AFAARS applies to all AF elements that participate in the
CJCS Exercise Program, other joint exercises, AF exercises, and real world
operations. It also applies to humanitarian, base closure, peacekeeping, and
noncombatant evacuation operations (NEO). Headquarters United States Air
Force (HQ USAF), MAJCOMs, field operating agencies (FOAs), and direct
reporting units (DRUs) must establish internal after-action reporting proce-
dures that ensure AFAARS objectives are met, problems are solved, and
results are disseminated.
1.7.2.1. The preferred method for submitting lessons learned, observations,
and summary reports is in the Air Force Instructional Input Program (AFIIP)
format. This may be accomplished by either using the AFIIP off-line soft-
ware or the Advanced Lessons Management System (ALMS) On-Line pro-
gram found on the Air Force Center for Knowledge Sharing Lessons
Learned (AFCKSLL) web sites at https://afknowledge.langley.af.mil for the
Internet or http://knowledge.langley.af.smil.mil for the SECRET Internet
Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) site. The alternate method of reporting
for AF only events is a word document file that contains the same informa-
tion required with the AFIIP software. An electronic word document tem-
plate for these reports may be downloaded from the AFCKSLL web sites.
1.7.2.2. The lesson learned is the most common type of submission. A lesson
learned is defined as a technique, procedure, or practical work-around that
enabled a task to be accomplished to standard based on an identified defi-
ciency or shortcoming. For lessons learned that identify a problem requiring
action at HQ USAF level, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, and Air Staff agencies,
a lessons learned report will be forwarded to HQ USAF/XOOT not later than
(NLT) 30 days following an exercise or operation. IAW AFI 214, Air Force
Prime RIBS Program, the Air Force Services Agency Directorate of Opera-
tions (HQ AFSVA/SVO) maintains the Prime RIBS Manager’s Guide and
posts        lessons      learned        updates      on        https://www-
r.afsv.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-DP-AE-
12-35-31&Filter=OO-DP-AE-12. HQ AFSVA/SVO serves as the functional
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               18

manager to review Allowance Standards for SV war reserve material
(WRM) and home station training (HST) requirements. This office coordi-
nates with AF Component Commands to cross-feed after-action reports and
lessons learned from exercises, real world contingencies and Air Reserve
Component (ARC) Deployed For Training (DFT) end of tour reports/host
unit AARs. AARs are posted and viewed through the Agency website. HQ
AFSVA/SVO researches all AARs and submits suggested corrective actions
to ensure synchronization and fusion with joint doctrine, AF doctrine, and
the Agile Combat Support core competency.
1.7.2.3. Issue Reports are similar to lessons learned in that they identify a
shortcoming, deficiency, or problem identified during an operation or train-
ing event, but do not include a work-around or solution. Issue Reports are
submitted using either the AFIIP off-line or ALMS on-line software. Include
the word "Issue" in the report title (example, "Issue - Spare Parts Kits for
Deployed Assets Were Obsolete"). For issues that identify a problem requir-
ing action at HQ USAF level, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, and Air Staff
agencies, prepare and submit an Issue Report to HQ USAF/XOOT no later
than 30 days following an exercise or operation.
1.7.2.4. Observation Reports document a technique or circumstance that sig-
nificantly impacted an operation or training event and should be shared with
the AF and joint community. Observation Reports are submitted using either
the AFIIP off-line or ALMS on-line software. Include the word "Observa-
tion" in the report title (example, "Observation - Unit Designed Scheduling
Template Reduced Deployed Workload"). The proper formats for these re-
ports can be found in AFI 10-204, Readiness Exercises and After-Action
Reporting Program.
1.8. Accountability of Personnel and Resources. It is well documented that
“people are our greatest resource.” That statement is especially true at a de-
ployment location. Accountability for our people and other resources is high
priority while deployed. Commanders are held responsible for knowing
where each airman is at all times and this responsibility is shared with direct
line supervisors in the chain of command. Everyone is responsible for safe-
guarding equipment and other resources. Equipment abuse and squandering
of resources greatly affect the outcome of any contingency operation. For a
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               19

successful tour of duty, supervisors should appoint responsible and knowl-
edgeable people as overseers of deployed personnel and resources.
1.8.1. SV designated deputy and SNCOs will need to work many issues,
including keeping close tabs on control and accountability of assets. They
may have to take steps to obtain new equipment or return old equipment.
They will normally determine whether the organization has to obtain a thea-
ter contract or some type of contract augmentation support to maintain, re-
pair, and replace failing equipment.
1.8.2. Accountability of personnel is one of the most important initial con-
siderations after arriving at a deployed location and it is the primary mission
of the unit’s Personnel Support for Contingency Operations (PERSCO)
team. Force accountability allows commanders to determine when they have
force closure; when they have the forces needed to accomplish their mission.
Proper force accounting allows commanders to plan for additional combat
support needs such as beddown space and feeding capability. Should an
emergency occur at home station or the deployed location, commanders
must also be able to locate their people quickly. Coordination with the con-
tingency contracting office, should also account for all contractor personnel
assigned to support operations at the deployed location.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                             20

                                 Chapter 2

                        BEDDOWN PLANNING

2.1. Overview. To ensure that the beddown is accomplished right the first
time, initial Lead wing, other core support units, SV planners and Prime
Readiness in Base Services (RIBS) team leaders must take the extra effort to
obtain all available deployment information and consider applicable general
planning factors. Deployment planning for AEF teams is a rigorous process
of checking and crosschecking plans against available information and re-
sources.
2.2. Deployed Planning Assumptions. The Agile Combat Support (ACS)
concept of operations (CONOPS) assumes that once access conditions are
established through Global Strike and Global Persistent Attack, there will be
a need for persistent and sustained operations if war-winning effects are not
initially achieved. ACS also assumes that sustainment begins on day one and
must remain continuous from deployment, through employment and rede-
ployment to mitigate the need for operational pauses. Within the initial
AETF force modules (Open the Base, C2, Establish the Base) expeditionary
forces must possess a certain level of self-sustainment. Optimal execution of
ACS depends on integrated planning and execution. Each NAF-C will be
fully networked with its sister components’ planning and execution centers,
facilitating an assured, integrated common operating picture and ensuring the
availability of decision-quality information. SV-specific assumptions are
listed in the following paragraphs.
2.2.1. Worldwide. Operational commanders will accept a reduced level of
service from the day full mobilization commences (M-day) through M+30 to
only what is needed to ensure mission accomplishment and life support. Af-
ter M+30, levels of service will be increased commensurate with quality of
life programs wherever and whenever possible.
2.2.2. Overseas AOR will rely primarily on in-place forces, assured host
nation support, and increased AEF projection capabilities. Assured host na-
tion support is typically that which is covered under formal diplomatic
agreement and for which necessary resources have been provided or ear-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                 21

marked and provisions made to identify, train, and exercise them in peace-
time. Emergency essential civilian employees and contract personnel per-
forming critical support activities overseas shall remain in place.
2.2.3. Deployed contingency locations. The use of WRM assets (e.g., Base
Expeditionary Airfield Resources or BEAR) will be made available. Limited
startup kits may deploy organically with lead Prime RIBS unit type codes
(UTCs) (e.g., the Single-Pallet Expeditionary Kitchen (SPEK), initial mortu-
ary affairs kit, and SV automation startup kits).
2.3. Force Module (FM) Concept. It has been long understood the key de-
terminant for SV to begin supporting Airmen is the population number. Con-
sumption rates, cycle times, planning and material requirements are usually
based on the number of Airmen being supported. Therefore, it makes sense
to base positioning of SV forces on a population driven building block phi-
losophy. SV UTCs change as technology and world situations dictate. How-
ever, one thing has remained constant: each UTC is designed to provide
critical and non-critical positions that give specific effects to a certain popu-
lation number. These UTCs are placed together at a beddown location in
sufficient number to provide complete SV support (e.g. C2, food, lodging,
mortuary, etc.) to the Air & Space Expeditionary Forces (AETF) FMs
(Figure 2.1).
Figure 2.1. AETF Force Modules.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                 22

2.4. Force Modules. The AETF FMs provide packaged combat and combat
support forces for presentation to a unified CCDR. The AETF FM consists
of six scalable, modular elements: Open the Airbase, Command and Control,
Establish the Airbase, Generate the Mission, Operate the Airbase, and Ro-
bust the Base. The AETF FMs provide a methodology for the presentation of
forces required to open, establish, and operate the required airbases. The
following paragraphs will look at the specific functions and tasks assigned to
each module of the AETF FM construct.
2.4.1. Open the Airbase. The objective of this module is to employ those
capabilities required to open an airbase. It accomplishes this by inserting
combat and combat support forces into an operating location capable of con-
ducting tasks required for the effective stand-up of initial airfield operations
and the reception of follow-on forces. The module provides capabilities spe-
cific to the conduct of airfield operations, C2, airfield survey, and air traffic
control.
2.4.2. Command and Control (C2). The C2 Force module provides the
permanent C2 capability through the establishment of the Air and Space Ex-
peditionary Wing or Group structure. This capability assumes control of the
operating location from the Open the Airbase module to C2 capability within
hours of arrival. The initial SV management team arrives as part of the C2
module. Top priorities include planning the SV portion of the beddown op-
eration to ensure activities will be sited properly to support the projected
population.
2.4.3. Establish the Airbase. The Establish the Airbase module contains
limited capabilities that are designed to integrate and extend capabilities of
the C2 module, and replace the Open the Airbase capabilities. Included are
capabilities designed to support most missions or weapons systems. This is
the largest AETF FM and contains the required functional capabilities to
bring the beddown to Initial Operational Capability (IOC), ready to receive
the main mission or weapon system. During the first seven to ten days of this
FM, SV lodges the force, establishes dining facilities and transitions from
meals ready-to-eat (MREs) to heat and serve unitized group rations (UGRs),
ensures a mortuary affairs capability and begins initial laundry support
through self-help laundries from WRM or local contract.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              23

2.4.4. Generate the Mission. The Generate the Mission FM like the other
five FMs, is modular and scalable; but, unlike the other five FM capabilities
that are capable of performing their mission without regard to the follow-on
mission, this module is effects-based and capability-dependent. The mission
platforms that make up the Generate the Mission module (such as fighter,
bomber, tanker, airlift, etc) are capable of deployment upon minimal strate-
gic warning, and will typically begin to arrive on or about C+2 and are capa-
ble of mission-generation within 36 hours upon arrival. This module also
contains mission systems, operators, maintenance, munitions, petroleum oils
and lubricants (POL) operations and medical support.
2.4.5. Operate the Airbase. The Operate the Airbase FM is required for
permanent C2 and mission support capability. It expands the infrastructure
by enhancing medical capability, including rapid evacuation of patients, pro-
viding mobility weapons storage, enhancing fuels storage and distribution
and has refueling and defueling capability. It contains mission support forces
needed to achieve full operating capability (FOC) and to make the initial
operating capabilities of the airbase mature and robust. In this module, SV
expands life sustaining programs and introduces quality of life (QoL) activi-
ties such as recreation, fitness, Non Appropriated Fund (NAF) resale, and
Army Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) support. The initial stages of
this FM are used to plan for sustained operations to include transition to
semi-permanent facilities.
2.4.6. Robust the Airbase. The Robust the Airbase FM contains those sup-
port forces that would typically not arrive until 30 days after an operating
location is established. This module provides additional Expeditionary Com-
bat Support (ECS) forces to robust the capabilities already in place from the
previous FMs, to include establishing Learning Resource Center (LRC) op-
erations, until a rotational operation can be implemented. The Robust the
Airbase FM is considered part of the baseline structure for the AETF.
2.5. Planning for Sustainment. A base is considered a long-term location
by Joint doctrine theater construction standards and timeframes. This allows
for replacement of WRM assets after a certain interval or as needed. For
such long-term locations, there may be few limits to allowing larger scale
sustainment improvements. Joint doctrine drives the basic requirements that
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                24

each branch of the armed forces follow when establishing planning factors
for replacement of shelters, including those that SV uses. However, even
though there are limits within the doctrine, there are no hard and fast re-
quirements that prevent a theater from improving contingency mission capa-
bilities within established mission budgets and priorities. It is very important
to work with the component command's SV organization when making deci-
sions. They have the long-range vision and responsibility for their theater. If
a base, whether called an airbase or joint service base or camp, will be des-
ignated as a prime mission support location for more than 24 months, SV
and CE planners usually try to obtain equipment and shelters (such as hard-
wall or constructed facilities) to replace WRM assets. IAW AFI 25-101, War
Reserve Materiel (WRM) Program Guidance and Procedures, this normally
is determined after the six-month point of a deployment. However, Expedi-
tionary Services Squadron (ESVS) and Air Expeditionary Wing (AEW)
commanders can often determine even earlier than six months whether the
location is to be used for a longer period. If the base will be a long-term lo-
cation, sustainment efforts usually involve obtaining more permanent sup-
porting structures and utilities, using contracts to augment or replace some
support services, and replacing WRM equipment with commercial equip-
ment.
2.5.1. Transitioning to Sustainment. Transitioning to more permanent fa-
cilities, equipment, and services usually requires a parallel plan to return
high demand/low density WRM assets and relieve military support person-
nel. Sometimes contract support for equipment and personnel can be used to
make up for shortfalls in the normal deployment UTCs (Attachment 2).
2.5.2. Deployment numbers are critical and must be closely watched from
initial planning through sustainment. What is the total population to be sup-
ported? What other units will be arriving and what are their responsibilities?
The deployment tasking messages will give you information on what other
SV UTCs will also respond and when. You need to determine how much
equipment, personnel, and what team kits you will need to support during the
contingency. Contact the other teams and work on final details.
CROSSCHECK! Compare your tasking messages and planned resources
with the other supporting units. SV units should check the Deliberate and
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                 25

Crisis Action Planning and Execution System (DCAPES) for their various
support UTCs. Different base Personnel Readiness Units (PRUs) sometimes
issue different instructions, orders, and transportation requirements based on
their understanding of other messages. PRUs may not have some of the thea-
ter guidance that affects tasking orders.
2.6. Beddown-Site Planning for Sustainment. Site planning and layout for
SV planners takes coordination and support. There are many issues to factor
in, especially force protection and surges. During sustainment the base popu-
lation will need all available temporary facilities and permanent facilities in
place. Modular facilities are better suited for the extended wear and tear and
they provide more protection since they are hard-walled. When making your
long range layout plans, consult Security Forces (SF), CE and Explosive
Ordnance Disposal (EOD) for safe distance criteria.
2.7. Quality of Life Planning. Fitness, recreation, NAF resale items, a
movie theater, education, and LRC all add to the quality of life (QoL) at a
bare base. Realistically most of these functions cannot be supported during
the initial FM flow until lodging, food service, hygiene, and laundry services
are supported during the Establish phase. Meeting QoL needs should be re-
viewed after the transportation flow becomes more steady state. While this is
happening, review what is really important at your location, as users' priori-
ties may be dictated by the unique nature of the bare base and the ability to
obtain equipment/support by contract (before UTC equipment sets arrive).
Some locations present such long and strenuous work and acclimatization
periods (to heat or cold), or high threat conditions that support for fully
equipped fitness facilities will need to be delayed. Establish a recreation tent,
small library, and movie theater when possible. A recreation tent or medium
shelter can support self-directed activities (such as paperback books, playing
cards, and games), video games, and large screen TVs and videos. It also
provides a location to help organize and support self-directed programs for
darts, volleyball, football, soccer, etc. Usually high on the priority list, both
for members of the AF and other branches of the Armed Forces, is obtaining
even a limited AAFES field exchange type support or NAF resale operation
for the sale of necessities and popular health, hygiene, food, and reading
materials.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               26

                                 Chapter 3

                                LOGISTICS

3.1. Overview. Logistics is the science of planning and carrying out the
movement and maintenance of forces. In its most comprehensive sense, it
includes those aspects of military operations that deal with: design and de-
velopment, acquisition, storage, movement, distribution, maintenance, and
disposition of materiel; movement, evacuation, and hospitalization of per-
sonnel; acquisition or construction, maintenance, operation, and disposition
of facilities; and acquisition or furnishing of services.
3.2. War Reserve Materiel (WRM). To meet the lighter and leaner Air and
Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) philosophy, legacy WRM assets (i.e.,
Harvest Eagle and Harvest Falcon) have been upgraded for deployability and
functionality. To keep up with the various changes to deployable assets, the
overall program for managing and updating bare base assets were placed
under the BEAR WRM program. BEAR is part of an overall AF strategic
effort to shift from a threat-based force to a capabilities-based force. The
capabilities-based model focuses more on configuring forces and materiel
into packages that are flexible enough to support the full spectrum of mili-
tary operations, not just major theater war. BEAR meets the AF’s require-
ments of a light and lean capability to support its air expeditionary FMs.
BEAR sets also reflect lessons learned from recent expeditionary operations
during which housekeeping and utilities packages deployed and required
significant tailoring to meet mission needs. BEAR set are right-sized and
have a variety of playbook options.
3.2.1. If a deployment site becomes long-term, SV managers determine if
WRM shelters and equipment need replacement. Some WRM Systems, such
as the BEAR sets listed in Table 3.1, may need replacing because of age or
condition, may be needed to support other efforts, or may be needed for QoL
enhancement during long-term deployments.
3.2.2. During sustainment operations, theater managers provide direction on
what WRM to return and how to return it. In addition to base-directed ef-
forts, theaters will normally have central contracts to reconstitute and return
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                       27

equipment. Work with theater planners as well as base Logistics Readiness
to determine what WRM needs to be returned. Coordinate with CE to obtain
more permanent facilities and obtain equipment either separately or as a part
of an installed package. Document all your actions in continuity files to pro-
vide follow-on rotations with information on what WRM will be leaving and
what is budgeted to replace existing WRM resources.
Table 3.1. BEAR Systems for FM Deployment.

Designation       Type Support                        Description
BEAR 150         Open-the-base        1. Stand alone package that supports up to
(B-150) or       housekeeping set     150 personnel when opening a bare base.
Swift BEAR                            2. Consists of shelters with environmental
Set (UTC                              control, small commercial power units and
XFB1A)                                hygiene facilities.
BEAR 550         Initial housekeep-   1. Stand alone package provides a robust
Initial (B-      ing set to transi-   camp with environmentally controlled
550I) Set        tion into Estab-     billeting, feeding and hygiene to support
(UTC XFB1H)      lish-the base        550 personnel in small shelters (tents).
                                      2. Billeting is on cots with insect netting at
                                      12 people per tent with one environmental
                                      control unit (ECU) per tent.
                                      3. Feeding initially will be from a SPEK.
                                      4. Hygiene consists of latrines and shower
                                      shave units.
                                      5. High and low voltage electrical and wa-
                                      ter distribution system is included.
                                      6. Small shelters for administration,
                                      morgue, and supply functions.
BEAR 550         Follow on house-     1. An additive package to B-550I increases
Follow-On (B-    keeping to sup-      support to handle up to 1,100 people.
550F) Set        port Establish-      2. Provides environmentally controlled
(UTC XFBBF)      and Operate-the      billeting, feeding and hygiene to support
                 base modules         550 personnel in small fabric shelters.
                                      3. Billeting on cots with insect netting at up
                                      to 12 people per tent with 1 ECU per tent.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                        28

 Designation       Type Support                         Description
                                        4. Feeding is done in a field kitchen.
                                        5. Hygiene consists of latrines and shower
                                        shave units.
                                        6. High and low voltage electrical and wa-
                                        ter distribution system is included.
                                        7. No additional small shelters for base
                                        support functions.
BEAR Indus-       Establishes base      1. Stand alone package that supports up to
trial Opera-      infrastructure        3,300 personnel and three fighter aircraft
tions (IO) Set                          squadrons or their equivalent.
(UTC                                    2. Supports a single location with up to six
XFBRC)                                  expeditionary airfields.
                                        3. Consists of small, medium, and large
                                        (4,000 and 8,000 square foot) shelters for
                                        supply, engineering, vehicle operations and
                                        maintenance, packing and crating, and
                                        other general purpose functions.
                                        4. Provides high voltage electrical power
                                        generation and distribution and environ-
                                        mental control.
BEAR Initial      Establishes flight-   1. Provides the facilities, equipment and
Flightline (IF)   line operations       supplies for aircraft flight operations, main-
Set (UTC          infrastructure and    tenance, crash-rescue, and other flight op-
XFBIF)            support               erations related activities for one aircraft
                                        squadron or its equivalent at a bare base
                                        location.
                                        2. Consists of 8,000 and 4,000 square foot
                                        shelters, aircraft hangars, small and me-
                                        dium shelters for maintenance (avionics
                                        powered/non-powered aircraft generation
                                        equipment, fuels laboratory, propulsion),
                                        fire emergency service operations/crash
                                        rescue, aircrew alert, squadron operations,
                                        storage, and general purpose functions.
                                        Provides a latrine and field lavatory.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                      29

Designation       Type Support                        Description
                                       3. Requires an Industrial Operations Set or
                                       a 550 set tasked for prime power and base
                                       infrastructure support.
BEAR Follow-     Establishes flight-   1. An additive to the IF Set.
on Flightline    line support for      2. Includes limited facilities, equipment,
(FF) Set (UTC    additional aircraft   and supplies needed to support flight op-
XFBFF)           squadron              erations and maintenance needs for a sub-
                                       sequent squadron equivalent.
                                       3. Consists of aircraft hangars for a propul-
                                       sion shop and small and medium shelters
                                       for powered/non-powered aircraft equip-
                                       ment and general purpose functions.
BEAR 550         Playbook Option       1. Standard food service facility.
Kitchen (UTC     for the B550I and     2. Built using TEMPER Tent sections
XFBKA)           B550F.                (seven for dining and 10 for food prep)
                                       3. Include three reefer boxes and associated
                                       water and power distribution equipment.
Self Help        Playbook Option       1. Designed for continuous operation to
Laundry          for the B550I and     serve up to 550 personnel.
(UTC XFBLS)      B550F.                2. Consists of 10 washers, 20 dryers, water
                                       heater, pumps, and 3K gallon bladder.
                                       3. Set up inside a single SSS, with pumps,
                                       water heater and bladder outside the tent.

3.3. Contract Support. Based on information gathered from deployment
documents and other sources, SV units should identify possible contracting
needs and sources at the location. Seek guidance from your MAJCOM prior
to establishing a support contract. Also, check for existing theater, host na-
tion, Joint service contracts or other support plans, agreements, contracts, or
sources of supply. Support may be available through civilian or host nation
contracting, but may require use of interpreters. Check on the general avail-
ability of interpreter support for contracts. When contractors are planned to
support SV' efforts, develop contingency plans to maintain essential services
if contract operations are terminated during increased threat condition. For-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              30

mulation of a Force Protection (FP) condition Delta Manpower Mitigation
Plan is critical and necessary to ensure there isn’t a break in essential ser-
vices. Do not take anything for granted; what was established or done during
prior rotations might not be appropriate during the current rotation. Request
authorization to obtain a Government Purchase Card (GPC) to help alleviate
hardships during emergencies.
3.3.1. There are many things to consider when deciding to contract. Do not
think that the contracting office has all the answers or remedies to problems
that may arise. Attachment 2 lists items to consider when deciding to con-
tract. During the contract planning stage, contact the MAJCOM and the on
site contracting office, meet with the deployed SV staff, and go over previ-
ous lessons learned reports, after action reports, and any pass-on logs or re-
ports for any additional information dealing with contracts and contractors.
3.3.2. Air Force Contract Augmentation Program (AFCAP). AFCAP
was initially conceived and implemented to provide CE and SV personnel a
contract force multiplier. The intent was to augment CE, SV and Logistics
capabilities during worldwide contingency operations. For example, contrac-
tors could relieve active duty and air reserve component personnel from sus-
tainment tasks to ensure fundamental military missions remained fully
staffed and operationally ready. You can find more information about
AFCAP on the internet at http://www.afcap.com/.
3.3.3. Expeditionary Contracting Squadron (ECONS). As mentioned
before, AFCAP is a contracting program set up for sustainment. Using the
onsite contracting office is another way of obtaining contract support and the
ECONS open solicitation contracts are managed out of the wing ECONS
office. The different services contract augmentation programs are speedy,
but some control is lost and they may be expensive. ECONS contracts take
longer to award (15 to 30 days), but SV maintains total control and they are
much cheaper. Check with the MAJCOM before awarding any contract since
they are the approving authority.
3.3.4. Construction Capabilities (CONCAP). The Navy's civilian augmen-
tation program, called CONCAP, provides the Navy and Marine Corps a
responsive contracting vehicle to respond to global contingencies and natural
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                             31

disasters. Like AFCAP, it frees uniformed personnel to perform purely mili-
tary duties. CONCAP’s primary focus is construction operations at perma-
nent Navy bases, but it can be used in the event AFCAP is not available for
large-scale construction at expeditionary beddown locations.
3.3.5. Logistics Civil Augmentation Program (LOGCAP). LOGCAP is
the Army’s equivalent to AFCAP and it is managed and administered by the
Army Materiel Command. It is a special contingency program to maintain a
worldwide contract on a multiple-region basis. It enables the Army to con-
tract quickly for combat support and combat service support needed in a con-
tingency. This contracting program is used while deployed on an Army base
operating support (BOS) site. All requests for increases in service to meet
AF needs are channeled though the Army’s LOGCAP officer. Military In-
terdepartmental Purchase Requests (MIPR) can be used to pay for increases
in standards above those stated in the Army’s contract. This method is pre-
ferred over increasing the Airmen population at the base to provide enhanced
services and standards.
3.4. Communications Equipment. There are a wide range of communica-
tions capabilities available at a bare base and SV personnel should be pre-
pared to take advantage of those, from deployment through sustainment.
While deploying Communications Squadrons (CS) may vary in their capa-
bility to support deployed units, lessons learned revealed recurring problems
can be avoided with proper planning. For instance, many SV units deployed
with a shortage of land-mobile radios (LMRs) and never improved their ca-
pabilities during early sustainment, while others obtained LMRs and cell
phones to enhance mission accomplishment. Also noted was an initial lack
of computers with up-to-date software to support the deployment mission.
This was occasionally due to computer and radio support packages being
broken up to support satellite units. Another problem was not having a suffi-
cient number of computers connected to the local area network (LAN). And,
when additional computers and laptops were ordered, they arrived without
dual-power capability so expensive transformers had to be purchased to al-
low them to run on local power. Again, knowing what to expect and antici-
pating these type problems may help planners overcome or avoid these chal-
lenges.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                             32

3.4.1. Computer and Phone Support. Priority must be given to ensuring
computers and phone lines are available to support the functions that must
have direct communications with CONUS support organizations. These
functions include the subsistence warehousing and dining hall operations,
LRC, the commander, and the SV control center. Next, request additional
computers and phones for troop morale purposes, additional SV computers
tied into the LAN, and local base phone connections between SV support
center operations. When new computers are needed to meet these require-
ments, ensure the CS orders computers and related hardware with dual-
power capability.
3.4.1.1. LRC and Morale Computers and Phones. Work with the CS to in-
stall morale phones and computers. Use a planning factor of 10 computers
and phones per 1,000 deployed personnel and request that a limited number
of phones have Defense Switched Network (DSN) capability for calling mili-
tary installations.
3.4.2.2. Determine if there will be a contract commercial phone bank, such
as those provided under the AAFES-AT&T worldwide military contract, an
independent contract initiated by theater communications, or through com-
pany sponsored efforts by various commercial networks. Also determine if
the company will support lower rates for the location, especially when using
calling cards that could be obtained from AAFES or SV. Some commercial
networks even provide free morale call services and cell phones.
3.4.2. Radio Support. SV operations are wide ranging, not only in the
community support complex, but also across the base where they may have
flightline feeding, flightline subsistence offloading, search and recovery
(S&R) operations. If the CS cannot obtain secure LMRs, request cell phones
for the primary SV support areas and the commander. Determine if non-
secure local frequency radios can be purchased to support major functions. If
so, you may be able to use NAF to purchase radios used to coordinate NAF
activities.
3.4.3. Other Communication Support. Work with the CS to determine if
audio-visual and communications equipment can be pre-wired at any avail-
able large multiuse facility that will be used for entertainment. This should
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              33

include wiring for speakers and microphones, cable for computers and mul-
timedia projectors, limited phone lines, and LAN connections to use with
computers. Consider wireless applications to allow broadcasting of perform-
ances and meetings.
3.5. Vehicles and Specialized Equipment. Most deployed SV units find
themselves short of vehicles and low on the priority list to obtain additional
assets. Vehicle and specialized equipment authorizations must be addressed
early to support subsistence warehousing of food and water, as well as for
lodging support to move mattresses and beds around the base. Subsistence
needs included large flatbed or stake-side trucks, 10K and 4K forklifts, and
trucks with refrigerated or insulated boxes (depending on travel distances)
for long hauls. For lodging, obtaining an all terrain vehicle (ATV) initially
and pickups or stake-side trucks during sustainment is usually a challenge.
Numerous locations required contract vendor support, as well as much larger
vehicles to transport escorts on base (usually requires a small bus or a large
van). Even Mortuary operation support was considered problematic, since
there were limited numbers of covered vehicles suitable for transporting
transfer cases with human remains. Larger or specialized covered vehicles
may not always be required. Look at the situation and determine if there are
other vehicles that could meet your requirements. Smaller pickups with a
long bed and fiberglass cap (or topper) are commonly available and should
be considered part of the overall base vehicle operations leasing program.
Such vehicles can be used as a primary provider for SV support of medical
laundry (for clean linen) and medical feeding efforts, along with mortuary
use.
3.5.1. Coordinate with Logistics Readiness to determine whether there is an
overall WRM vehicle shortage affecting support to SV and whether there is a
WRM solution. During sustainment, bases should work with Logistics
Readiness to ensure all valid vehicle authorizations are filled to the maxi-
mum extent possible.
3.5.2. Leasing of vehicles by Logistics Readiness should be expected to
make up for shortages that hinder SV operations. If there are problems with
vehicles leased from local, off-base sources, (i.e., wrong vehicle type, size,
or recurring maintenance), the Vehicle Control Officers/NCOs should im-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              34

mediately contact Logistics Readiness to ensure timely resolution with the
local vendor. As a temporary alternative, Logistics Readiness at some loca-
tions can obtain larger numbers of leased vehicles and material handling
equipment (such as forklifts, gator-type utility vehicles, and small box-bed
vans and pickups) to make up for shortages of WRM vehicles during sus-
tainment. If obtaining AFCAP support for food, lodging, or fitness-
recreation support, also consider using AFCAP for vehicle and special
equipment support. Keep in mind that leased vehicles, particularly overseas,
may have manual transmissions and some AF personnel may not be trained
to operate them. AFCAP can be tasked to provide this type of training to
qualify SV personnel while deployed overseas; however, units should antici-
pate that leased general purpose assets will have manual transmissions and
should train their personnel to meet this requirement prior to deployment. In
addition to 10K and 4K forklifts, other specialized equipment for offloading
and materials handling is usually required by SV to handle subsistence,
transfer supplies to/from refrigerated vans and storage containers, and pro-
vide for trailers. SV vehicle control, food service, and contingency lodging
personnel should coordinate planning and then budget for vehicles and spe-
cialized equipment to meet transportation-related and materials handling
support. Pallet jacks, insulated containers and trailers, hand trucks-dollies,
mobile carts, and portable roller conveyors can all be obtained during sus-
tainment to support SV operations.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               35

                                 Chapter 4

                             FOOD SERVICES

4.1. Overview. As a SV core competency, efficient and sustained feeding
operations are absolutely essential to mission success during contingency
conditions. But, simply providing food does not necessarily raise morale.
The accomplishments of deployed personnel can be directly attributed to the
quality of food service they receive. In fact, good food and good service top
the list of “morale builders” in almost all deployments and its value can not
be overstated. This chapter outlines some of the basic planning factors and
assumptions of successful field feeding.
4.2. Food Service WRM. As mentioned in Chapter 3, most of the WRM
needed for food service operations is contained in the BEAR 550I and
BEAR 550F sets. Field feeding initially will be from a Single Pallet Expedi-
tionary Kitchen (SPEK) and may be augmented by the playbook option
BEAR 550 kitchen. Food service structures included in the 550I can be used
with the SPEK or the Containerized Deployment Kitchen (CDK). Planners
can also reference AFH 10-247, Volume 2, Guide To Services Contingency
Feeding Operations for more details and options of facilities available to
accomplish the food service mission.
4.2.1. SPEK. The SPEK is a lightweight, quick response kitchen, designed
to provide hot meals using “heat and serve” UGR rations for approximately
550 people in support of AEF deployments. The SPEK comes in two ver-
sions, the BEAR or WRM version (UTC XFB1H) and the Homestation
SPEK (UTC LWRRF). The Homestation version includes a 3-section
TEMPER tent; while the BEAR version comes in an expandable “EISU-90”
container and includes California Medium Shelter. Only the BEAR SPEK
provides tentage for seating space.
4.2.1.1. The SPEK is capable of providing hot meals within 4 hours after
rations arrive. It is best utilized for Prime RIBS units at austere contingency
locations for periods of 30 days or less. It operates on a combination of die-
sel fuel/JP-8 and a small amount of electricity. Other components included in
the SPEK are flooring, various utensils and support equipment, prep-tables, a
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               36

2-kW generator, and the heart of the kitchen—a Tray Ration Heater
(TRH)—and a three-compartment sink that is heated by a diesel-fired
Babington Airtronic Burner (BAB). As the name implies, all components of
the Homestation SPEK (UTC LWRRF) is deployed on a single 463L air
cargo pallet, while the BEAR SPEK (UTC XFB1H) comes inside an EISU-
90. However, no rations, fuel, water, dining tables or chairs are included
with the Homestation SPEK (UTC LWRRF) and will have to be sourced
elsewhere. Figure 4.1 shows the exterior of the two SPEKs (Homestation
SPEK – UTC LWRRF on the left; BEAR SPEK – UTC XFB1H on the
right). As mentioned earlier, a major difference between the two SPEKs is
the shelter itself.
Figure 4.1. Exterior of Homestation and BEAR SPEKs.




4.2.1.2. If the deployment is expected to last longer than 30 days, planners
should order the playbook option BEAR 550 kitchen and the SPEK should
be located near the site where the BEAR 550 kitchen(s) will be positioned.
Once BEAR 550I/F kitchens become operational, the SPEK may remain in
place to augment heat and serve capability if required or be relocated for
alternate site feeding (e.g., flight line). If the BEAR 550I/F kitchens have
sufficient feeding capacity and the SPEK is no longer required, it should be
reconstituted and returned to WRM or deployed elsewhere. The SPEK can
be deployed by air or ground transportation. Set up of the SPEK requires
eight personnel about four hours and four personnel 1½ hours to make the
kitchen operational. After set up and arrival of rations, 2½ hours are required
to prepare a meal, using UGRs (UGRs are not included with the SPEK). Po-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                37

table water, diesel fuel, and waste disposal are also not included but are re-
quired for the SPEK to sustain itself.
4.2.1.3. The SPEK requires a clear and level area of at least 25 feet by 30
feet. Ideally, the area under the TEMPER tent/expandable EISU-90 should
be completely cleared of all underbrush, rocks, and branches, and must not
present any depressions or sharply raised areas.
4.2.1.4. Major components of the Homestation SPEK (UTC LWRRF) and
BEAR SPEK (UTC XFB1H), besides the structures and semi-hardened rub-
ber mat flooring (Homestation SPEK only), are the Field Sanitation Unit
(FSU) and the Tray Ration Heater (TRH). Both of these items are designed
to operate at temperatures ranging from -20° to 120° F and relative humidity
ranging from 20 to 80%. Figure 4.2 shows the interior of the two most
common SPEK versions (BEAR SPEK on the left; Homestation SPEK on
the right).
Figure 4.2. Interior of BEAR and Homestation SPEKs.




4.2.1.5. FSU. The FSU is an electrically powered field sanitation system that
is easy to use. Pulling the single start-up knob, fires up the diesel-fired BAB.
The FSU is designed to heat water in 3 separate 38-gallon basins, (wash,
rinse, and sanitize). The sink is thermostatically controlled; once you pull the
start-up knob all three compartments will heat up to their required tempera-
tures and maintain those temperatures without further adjustments. The FSU
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                38

is constructed of sturdy, corrosion resistant materials to withstand harsh field
conditions. The system can be easily moved by 2 people, and is equipped
with drain boards on either side for ample room to sanitize pots and pans.
Adjustable legs allow for use on an uneven surface, and have an externally
activated drain.
4.2.1.6. TRH. The TRH consists of a stainless steel, sled-mounted, hot water
tank and a multi-fuel BAB that operates from its own fuel source (5-gallon
can). The system requires very little set up upon unpacking from the pallet.
To operate, fill the TRH with potable water and connect the fuel and electri-
cal power; the TRH is ready to work. The TRH will heat 18 tray packs (25
with out racks) to serving temperature. The TRH consists of a 30 gallon ca-
pacity heater tank with a hinged, latching lid, stabilizing skids with shock
mounts, drain valve, electrical controls and BAB housing and cover assem-
bly. The burner maintains the water temperature inside the tank thermostati-
cally within a range of 180-200°F, and is well insulated to reduce loss from
heat generated by the BAB. The THR has its own unique safety features and
controls. A circuit breaker on the TRH electrical control box is one of its
unique safety devices (the electrical diagram inside the box), and the mer-
cury tilt switch will shut down the BAB in case of excessive tilt. It also fea-
tures a water-level sensor to ensure that the burner will not fire without suf-
ficient water in the TRH tank. A thermodisc-type thermostat regulates water
temperature. When the temperature falls below 180°F the burner will fire
back up and re-heat the water. A pull on/push off knob allows for easy and
safe startup and shutdown procedure for the equipment.
4.2.2. The BEAR 550 Kitchen (UTC XFBK4). The 550 kitchen consists of
a TEMPER tent complex that can support 550 personnel and requires an area
of 200 feet x 100 feet (Figure 4.3). As mentioned earlier, it is a playbook
option in housekeeping sets. The dining tent consists of a 7-section
TEMPER tent with an area of 56 feet x 20 feet. The sanitizing, food prepara-
tion, and kitchen areas use a 10-section TEMPER tent and require an area of
80 feet x 20 feet. Three Advanced Designed Refrigerators (ADRs) are in-
cluded with the 550 Person Kitchen. The kitchen weighs 35 short tons and
requires 13 pallet positions to airlift.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               39

Figure 4.3. Standard Configuration for BEAR 550 Kitchen.




4.2.3. The most common configuration for contingency operations is to
combine two 550 kitchens (the kitchen from the B550I and the kitchen from
the B550F). This field kitchen would have a 300 feet x 300 feet floor plan
based on TEMPER tents that is capable of supporting 1,100 personnel. The
modular feature of TEMPER tents allows the dining hall configuration to be
varied if necessary to fit the shape, operation, and functions at the location.
The dining area consists of a 13-section TEMPER tent (Figure 4.4), which
can seat 120 personnel and requires an area of 104 feet x 20 feet for setup.
The kitchen area consists of a 5-section TEMPER tent and requires 40 feet x
20 feet, and the sanitizing/food preparation area consists of an 8-section
TEMPER tent and requires an area of 64 feet x 20 feet. Included are six
ADRs and two ice machines. Figure 4.5 shows kitchen configuration for
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                            40

1,100 personnel. NOTE: Figure 4.5 includes the 150-cubic feet refrigeration
units. These have been replaced by the ADR-300s.
Figure 4.4. Dining Tent for 1,100-Personnel.




Figure 4.5. Standard Kitchen Configuration for 1,100-Personnel.
(Two – 550 Kitchens combined)




4.2.4. The CDK. The CDK is a deployable, fully self-sustaining, kitchen
capable of preparing up to 500 meals twice a day. It is structured from a
standard 8 foot by 8 foot by 20 foot ISO container with one expandable side.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                41

4.2.4.1. The system includes electrically powered food preparation equip-
ment assembled in an expandable single-sided tactical shelter, a water pres-
sure control system and 250-gallon water bladder, and a 150-kW diesel gen-
erator.
4.2.4.2. The CDK provides a source for hot meal preparation until BEAR
assets arrive, or can provide satellite/remote-feeding support. The CDK pro-
vides an all-weather capability (at temperature ranges from -25º F to +120º
F) for preparing A-rations. Additional weather protection can be achieved by
using a Small Shelter System (SSS) or TEMPER tent section (Figure 4.6).
Figure 4.6. CDK with TEMPER Tent Section.




4.2.5. Hard-sided Facilities. If available, a hard-sided structure is preferable
to soft-sided structures as a kitchen due to the potential food damage caused
by sand, dust, and moisture. Another concern is that the primary facility sup-
porting food activities must have a hard, level and stable floor to allow safe
operation of the kitchen equipment. Hard-sided shelters also provide an addi-
tional protective measure to control food assets, especially MREs and UGRs
which are very pilferable.
4.2.5.1. The General Purpose (GP) Shelter (Figure 4.7) is an air transport-
able, hard-walled facility used primarily for equipment and aircraft mainte-
nance shops. The entire facility is shipped inside a single container. When
filled, the GP shelter weighs approximately 11,000 pounds and therefore
requires a forklift for transport to its erection site. The building occupies a
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                42

31-foot by 48-foot area and provides about 1,400 square feet of unobstructed
floor space. It takes an 8-person crew approximately 90-120 man-hours to
assemble. The basic shelter consists of five arches, two end walls and an
electrical system. The electrical system includes interior and exterior light-
ing, outlets and provisions for connection of two environmental control
units. The end walls consist of column-supported panels and truck doors.
Several types of fabric flashing for the various joints in the facility are pro-
vided to preclude weather problems.
Figure 4.7. General Purpose Shelter.




4.3. Coalition/Host Nation Facilities. During sustainment operations, de-
ployed units often experience host nation (HN) infrastructure limitations
when attempting to expand base facilities for new missions such as: sewage
treatment, gray water disposal and solid waste management programs. These
limitations are mitigated when the US and HN have a relationship that cre-
ates opportunities for service contracts, land leases and utility supplies. The
SV and CE planners must take local economy, political relations and other
influences into consideration when trying to solve these types of problems.
Normal deployment systems/methods for sewage treatment and waste dis-
posal may not be possible when an existing airfield is used for an AEF de-
ployment. Surrounding populations and structures may simply prevent ex-
pansions, and existing utility systems may already be overtaxed or incapable
of handling the additional load from a small military city. Working with CE
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               43

and reach-back support will help overcome most challenges when using HN
facilities and infrastructure.
4.4. Modular Facilities. For locations planning to have a long-term pres-
ence, or where WRM assets require reconstitution due to condition or must
be rotated to another location, plan to obtain more permanent or fixed facili-
ties. This is accomplished in conjunction with CE to ensure all facilities,
utilities, and other support requirements are planned, programmed, and
budgeted for in the primary planning documents that must be approved by
the theater commander. Although CE must obtain the justification and usu-
ally has the better handle on what types of structures can be obtained (i.e.,
modular, pre-engineered, K-Span), SV still plays the major role in determin-
ing what is needed to support food service operations. Develop a functional
diagram that layouts how and where support functions will go and then work
with CE to find the structures that meet your needs.
4.5. Rations and Bottled Water. Food and water are life sustaining re-
quirements during contingency operations. For days 1-10 of most deploy-
ments, Services is responsible for providing individual bottled water with
meals. After day 10, CE is responsible for providing bulk water. Food ser-
vice planners must have an in-depth knowledge of how to plan, request,
store, and issue rations. This section covers the sustainment of field food
service operations. Additional information concerning food planning is de-
scribed in AFH 10-247 Volume 2, Guide to Services Contingency Feeding
Operations.
4.5.1. Push/Pull Concept. During the initial phase of a contingency, the dis-
tribution system pushes rations—typically MREs. When proper food service
UTCs become available, UGRs are introduced. In other words, “push”
means that rations are ordered for you––you have no control over when and
how many rations you will be receiving. This is all decided at the Air Force
Services Agency and higher headquarters level based on the expected popu-
lation of the bare base. The "push" system converts to a "pull" system once
personnel strength has stabilized at the bare base, the type of operations have
been determined (i.e. flightline, work shifts, bomber, fighter, refueling) and
feeding capabilities are determined. Quantities and types of rations are then
ordered by deployed SV planners through a Prime Vendor (PV).
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                44

4.5.2. Initial Capability. During deployment, meal availability should
roughly transition along the timelines illustrated by the FMs. Initial issues of
MREs are supplemented with UGRs, followed eventually by the introduction
of perishable/semi-perishable goods. Initial Operating Capability (IOC) for
SV is considered achieved at the time the first hot UGR is served. Full op-
erational capability is reached when a mix of UGRs, fresh, frozen, perish-
able, nonperishable or pre-prepared items are used to deliver all hot meals.
The standard deployment meal cycles follow the UTC deployment timelines
and goals shown in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1. Feeding Goals for Standard Deployments.

         Deployment Days                    Type Meals
         1-4                    Meal, Ready-to-Eat (3 meals)
         5-14                   UGR (2 meals) MRE (1 meal)
         15-29                  UGR (3 meals)
                                Begin introducing UGR A-Rations
         30 and longer
                                (UGR-A) and A-Ration products

4.5.3. Planning Factors Based on Population. During sustainment, one of the
primary efforts is determining the total number of meals to be served. Also,
determine the anticipated surge figures during AEF-rotation overlaps, as well
as any holidays covered by the ordering period. These situations can require
additional rations and additional subsistence warehouse storage.
4.5.4. Ration and Bottled Water Safety. The US Army Veterinary Command
(VETCOM) is responsible for approval of food and bottled water sources.
Food and bottled water should be procured from sources on the VETCOM
approved sources list (http://www.veterinaryservice.army.mil). During op-
erations where approved sources are not available, contracting will consult
with the Public Health Officer for food procurement and the Bioenvironmen-
tal Engineer for bottled water. The local Public Health office might be able
to obtain waivers from VETCOM to have food and water sources obtained
for local use only. This could speed up the process to obtain A-rations.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               45

4.5.5. Subsistence Protection. Subsistence protection, including bottled wa-
ter, from terrorist or hostile forces is now recognized as a crucial area for
food service operations. The food and water chain is an area of increasing
threat to the health of deployed personnel, and will receive more aggressive
force protection consideration by Security Forces (SF), CE, SV, Medical
Group (public health/bioenvironmental engineers), and supply point manag-
ers such as contracting and Logistics Readiness. Store food and water sup-
plies in the same warehousing complex for better security and oversight.
4.6. Sustainment and Quality of Life (QoL). The Operate the Airbase FM
brings mission support forces needed to achieve full operating capability and
sustain mission generation beyond 30 days. The resources provide capabili-
ties to bolster force protection, communications, cargo handling, and QoL
activities (such as additional feeding and lodging), and provides reach-back
capability for supply, US mail, military pay, etc. Sustainment is the long
term operation of a base. It includes replacement of personnel and upgrade of
equipment, facilities, and utilities for longer term operations. It may include
enhanced contract support and transition to more permanent facilities and
equipment; all of which greatly improves the QoL for deployed personnel.
This section addresses some concepts for sustainment operations that food
service managers have employed during past deployments. Food service
managers should familiarize themselves with all the contingency assets that
might be present for AF or joint service operations.
4.6.1. Use of WRM During Sustainment. After transitioning to enhanced
facilities during sustainment operations, if available, some WRM assets may
be retained for use in improving operations, overall support and QoL. Con-
sider this option if you are not able to obtain a commercial dining facility
(DFAC) with equipment. Sustainment operations often require food services
managers to rely heavily on past training of how to estimate cooking re-
quirements for various meals for various size populations, preparation times,
and the proper use of available equipment. When shortages and challenges
are identified, the innovative use of existing assets and support contracts can
help ease the workloads of stressed SV personnel.
4.6.2. Meal Transitions. As stated earlier, meals usually transition along the
timelines dictated by the FMs and SV feeding goals stated in Table 4.1.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                46

4.6.2.1. Sustainment efforts normally address the transition to UGR-As and
A Rations. Planning transitions during sustainment falls into three catego-
ries: (1) obtaining subsistence (where you are, what rations you can obtain,
how long it takes to receive them?), (2) storing subsistence (how do you re-
ceive rations, how do you offload and load rations, how long can you keep
rations without spoilage?), and (3) cooking and support preparation times
(can you cook all ration items on a menu, do you have time to cook and
clean, can someone else clean, can someone else cook?). These areas must
be considered when planning to order, cook, and serve rations. As used here,
a ration is the generic term for the amount of food required for one person
per day; subsistence is the generic term for food supplies; and pipeline is the
whole food item distribution chain from the source point where the item is
loaded to the delivery point at your location.
4.6.2.2. Obtaining Subsistence. During sustainment, most locations will have
a main food-support contractor (i.e., the Defense Supply Center Philadelphia
(DSCP) PV program) to meet their meal requirements. Units preparing to
support sustainment operations should contact the theater NAF-C and
AFSVA/SVOHF to determine if a main food support contractor serves, or
will serve, their deployment. Review the DSCP Subsistence Prime Vendor
Guide Book to become familiar with basic requirements of main food sup-
port contract programs. Most support and food issues are worked directly
with the component with assistance from AFSVA/SVOHF as necessary.
Planning should provide for a 14-day menu (i.e., Field Feeding Nutrition
Analysis [14-Day United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Food
Guide Pyramid]). Theater goals are primarily based on having all food ob-
tained from DSCP sources (for cost, security, and health reasons), but there
may be exceptions within AORs. For those locations that do not have a main
food support contractor, the primary source for subsistence is DSCP opera-
tional rations. Theater or local sources can provide fresh food, but only if the
sources are approved by theater-recognized public health and security
sources. Prime RIBS food managers should become familiar with the DSCP
Operational Rations Business Unit's Customer Ordering Handbook & Up-
date. The subsistence you can obtain will depend in large part on the subsis-
tence supply pipeline to your location. It varies by location and sometimes
by the individual food item. The whole PV process could take up to 60 days.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               47

4.6.2.3. Typically, the NAF-C will determine the minimum days of opera-
tions support (DOS) for warehousing operations. Food service managers
may find that it takes more than 60 days of requisitioning and pipeline time
to receive just a portion of their ordered subsistence items. When this is the
case, adjust your subsistence order quantities. Provide additional space (in a
subsistence breakout or main subsistence warehouse and a separate DFAC
cold storage facility) to order more items up front and hold the items for
longer periods of time, until there is a more reliable supply pipeline.
4.6.2.4. Some food items are not available to ship due to lengthy shipment
times, or are simply not available from the contract vendor. These items will
generate a not-in-stock (NIS) designation on the item order. There also may
be substitutions that you did not plan for and did not want. Initial support
from new main food support contractors is usually not a flawless operation,
but should get better when problems are identified. Work problems and is-
sues through the theater's supporting MAJCOM SV personnel and with
AFSVA/SVOHF as required. Be prepared to order additional UGR-As dur-
ing early sustainment to provide a full 14-day menu when generating initial
subsistence requirements.
4.6.2.5. Some subsistence items may not be available for delivery due to the
length of time an individual food item is serviceable. This can be due to shelf
life, which is determined from storage life, expiration date, shipping condi-
tion, or perishable or freshness dates. Some food orders may require that
items be sent from the Continental United States (CONUS) and the ship-
ments bundled with subsistence being stocked at a main food support con-
tractor's regional warehouse. Other orders could be totally filled from a re-
gional warehouse's stocked subsistence and could be shipped directly. De-
pending on the delivery method from the warehouse, the shipments may or
may not arrive early enough to provide an adequate storage life and be edi-
ble. If the food is arriving with too little shelf life, address the issue with
your NAF-C. The normal solution is for DSCP to require the main food sup-
port contractor to obtain these items from closer sources to cut down on
overall shipping times. Sustainment is the time to make sure that both your
ordering menu system and the overall subsistence logistics support system
are compatible.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               48

4.6.2.6. Menu planning choices may be limited by the en route pipeline time,
no matter what the main food-support contractor does to shorten the delivery
pipeline. When certain items continue to have freshness shelf life problems,
sustainment planning is the time to find alternate sources for obtaining those
food items while they are still fresh.
4.6.2.7. Determine if the theater allows local purchase (from approved avail-
able sources) and use this method to get items that are not readily available
through DSCP. Local purchases are accomplished using blanket purchase
agreements (BPAs), but must be approved by the NAF-C and
AFSVA/SVOHF. An alternative to buying fresh foods in-theater is to accept
a different food packaging method for menu foods of choice. While planning
sustainment menus using the AF Food Service Recipe System (an automated
version of the Armed Forces Recipe System), UGR-A packaged menu op-
tions may have to be substituted for some A-Ration choices. Consider order-
ing bulk meats and some pre-cooked foods. These choices can not only ex-
tend the useful shelf life for some types of items, but can also greatly reduce
cooking times, storage requirements, water use requirements, and sanitation
needs. Using pre-cooked foods is a theater support, budgeting, manpower,
and resources issue that should be worked with your NAF-C.
4.6.2.8. Storing Subsistence—Food and Water. Subsistence storage is the
foundation for food service efforts. Experience shows that you must plan for
and develop an effective warehouse management system in order to sustain
food service efforts. Subsistence warehouse management has been identified
by commanders as one of the more crucial areas requiring experienced per-
sonnel. Without developing abilities to (1) offload and transport to storage,
(2) store within the appropriate storage conditions (dry, refrigerated, and
cold), and (3) reload and transport to food preparation areas, some well-
intentioned efforts can be LITERALLY wasted. Attachment 3 provides
guidance on both ordering and storage of rations and Attachment 4 lists
details for protecting rations from excessive heat.
4.6.3. When the quantities and types of food are known and the length of
storage time determined for all your food sources, then it is time to deter-
mine what size warehousing operations you need, as well as the subsistence
handling equipment and vehicles.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                  49

4.6.3.1. Menu planning and subsistence ordering are based on meals required
to serve 100 percent of the base population (obtained from the PERSCO
team). This number can be as adjusted for head count, locally developed
feeding data, and taking into account any alternate food service opportunities
such as franchised food vendors that are contracted with by SV or AAFES.
By using detailed planning (versus previous 90% population standard), over-
all food service operations can become more efficient. However, it requires
more attention when figuring quantities, ordering subsistence, and planning
square and cubic footage for subsistence warehousing.
4.6.3.2. For bases with a predicted long-term presence, and bases with a
shortage of refrigeration unit maintainers, sustainment improvements usually
include obtaining more reliable, larger, and supportable commercial equip-
ment and then returning WRM assets. There are numerous warehouse-
related options to consider and many are listed in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2. Suggested Sustainment Options for Subsistence Storage.
      Effort                 Details                          Remarks
Replace WRM        1. Obtain larger, more       a. Return most 300-CF refrigera-
Refrigerated       efficient (interior-use or   tion units, or relocate a few to
storage units      outdoor-use) modular         support remote and isolated ar-
                   or site-erected walk-in      eas.
                   coolers and freezers.        b. Contracting can help procure
                   2. Purchase or lease         more refrigerated storage units as
                   storage buildings,           equipment items.
                   warehouses, and refrig-      c. Ensure that refrigerant gases
                   erated shipping con-         for new units can be readily ob-
                   tainers.                     tained and the equipment can be
                                                maintained by CE or contract.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                             50

      Effort             Details                        Remarks
Replace WRM    1. Obtain large pre-       a. Contract with companies that
shelters       engineered metal, ten-     specialize in food storage ware-
               sion fabric, or other      house complexes.
               commercial storage         b. Companies should include
               buildings.                 walk-in coolers & freezers as part
               2. Create a warehouse      of a warehouse design package.
               complex to meet your       c. Due to the complexity and size
               overall covered dry        of the facilities, submit this with
               storage needs and pro-     or through CE.
               vide cover for interior-
                                          d. If contractor is already on site
               use walk-in coolers and
                                          and in use by CE, AFCAP can
               freezers.
                                          coordinate all requirements and
                                          identify adequate maintenance
                                          requirements and backup me-
                                          chanical systems.
                                          e. Ensure all walk-in equipment
                                          and warehouse facilities have
                                          larger doorways to at least ac-
                                          commodate pallet jacks and bulk
                                          food transport carts.
Improve site   1. Construct improved      a. CE can improve roadways
safety         roadways between off-      with crushed stone or paving.
               load sites and the ware-   Submit a work order.
               houses and from the        b. Loading docks can be pur-
               warehouses to the          chased by CE as equipment items
               DFAC food storage and      (i.e., metal portable loading
               preparation areas.         dock) and/or obtained by a con-
               2. Construct offloading    tractor and erected by CE.
               docks suitable for         c. Portable loading docks can be
               transport and loading      towed and erected to provide
               facilities.                support for other SV functions
                                          and used as a temporary stage.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                   51

      Effort                 Details                         Remarks
Material Han-      Obtain warehouse and         a. Companies in most theaters
dling support      DFAC material han-           can provide this equipment.
                   dling equipment such as      b. Consider using a contractor
                   pallet jacks, bulk food      and have them provide a com-
                   transport carts, small       plete warehousing package for
                   and large forklifts, hand    material handling equipment.
                   trucks, light-weight and
                                                c. Contractors can provide the
                   portable roller convey-
                                                expertise to run the warehouses
                   ors, and prepared food
                                                and train SV personnel on forklift
                   (insulated if necessary)
                                                and warehouse operations.
                   transport carts.
Flightline Tem-    Construct or erect a         a. Transport aircraft offloading
porary Subsis-     small hardwall shelter       can cause subsistence items to be
tence Holding      or CONEX-type ship-          placed on ramp awaiting trans-
Area               ping container (with         portation to warehouse facilities.
                   large doorway and hard       b. Use dry ice if readily available
                   floor) near the light line   or obtain an environmental con-
                   as a temporary holding       trol unit to cool perishable sub-
                   area.                        sistence items. Follow dry ice
                                                safety precautions.
                                                c. Ensure area is secured until SV
                                                can obtain transport.

4.6.3.4. Storing and distributing bottled water is a major concern at most
deployed locations. Unless it becomes prohibitively expensive, locations
may never be able to forgo the use of some bottled water, even when CE
does provide potable, palatable water. For many service members, having
bottled water is now an essential convenience. However, for Prime RIBS
food service personnel, not having a water distribution system that can relia-
bly provide potable, palatable water at the DFAC should be a major concern
due to manpower, health, and safety concerns. Many food service equipment
items are set up to use piped water. Having to carry bottles of water through-
out the kitchen can present hazards, especially when equipment is all electric
and designed for piped water. It also requires more personnel or longer hours
to manage the water at a DFAC. By eliminating bottled water usage, DFACs
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               52

can cook more efficiently. In addition to the DFAC, water storage at ware-
houses creates additional workloads, storage concerns, and handling issues.
Using bottled water comes at the price of having to handle excess trash, in-
cluding possibly having to recycle plastic, as well as requiring more and lar-
ger offloading equipment, pallets, and protected storage. If bottles are recy-
cled, then the contingency contracting officer (CCO) and medical personnel
must insure that the bottles are not short cycled (i.e., taken out of recycling
and refilled with impure local water for attempted resale to, or reuse by, the
military).
4.6.3.4.1. When DFACs must use bottled water for cooking, avoid using the
convenience size (personal use) water bottles and obtain water in at least 5-
gallon jugs. Keep in mind that these jugs weigh about 43 pounds. If you can
use water stands to hold larger containers, you may be able to obtain 10-to
20-gallon jugs that have spigots for filling smaller items. However, these can
be much heavier (about 87 and 180 pounds respectively) and can be more
costly to purchase.
4.6.3.4.2. CE is responsible for providing enough potable water to sustain
operations in all environments for bases ranging from an austere bare base to
a main operating base. In austere environments, CE must provide a mini-
mum of 13 gallons of potable water a day per person. Despite this require-
ment, DFACs have used bottled water, because the potable water became
unpalatable due to heat and developed inadequate residual chlorine levels.
SV personnel should work closely with CE to determine the best method to
provide an adequate potable water supply. For extreme arid conditions, CE
may have to install several 500- to 1,000-gallon insulated and cover-
protected water storage tanks at the DFACs. Insulated potable water storage
tanks usually use small chillers and control pumps and can keep water fresh
for several additional days. By adding cartridge filters just before the main
points of service, water quality can be better than average for all DFAC food
and ice production uses, except for high-volume, high temperature cleaning.
4.6.3.4.3. There are also commercial options for efficient equipment that
requires fewer personnel to manage (Figure 4.8). SV should take actions
during sustainment to improve the overall water storage and distribution
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                53

situation and help alleviate the manpower draining effort created by depend-
ence on bottled water.
Figure 4.8. Commercial Water Storage Tanks.




4.6.3.4.4. In addition to working closely with CE to plan for adequate water
for SV functions, you should be familiar with AFPAM 10-219, Volume 5,
Bare Base Conceptual Planning Guide. The chapter on water systems ad-
dresses in detail water sources, uses, treatment, and distribution. A large sec-
tion is also describes proper water supply requirements for a bare base lo-
cated in an arid environment, where even sustainment efforts may face quan-
tity restrictions.
4.6.3.4.5. It may be possible for CE to tanker deliver or pipe better water to
the DFAC during off-peak hours so that the tank water is cooler and has
adequate chlorine residuals. By using several smaller tanks, you can alternate
their use before water loses chlorine and becomes unpalatable. Also check
with AFCAP and determine by statement of work what they can provide for
insulated potable water storage systems.
4.6.4. Meal Planning Factors. Normal deployment meal preparation is based
on providing three hot meals per day. The minimum day-meal requirements
are: one meat entrée, two vegetables, one starch, one soup, one dessert, and
three beverages. If you have available manpower and facilities, increase your
menu options if at all possible. Attachment 5 provides guidelines for initial
manpower requirements. During sustainment, SV personnel must determine
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                             54

their location's layout, military and support demographics, and work sched-
ules to identify the best ways to provide meals for personnel. For bases
where the DFAC is central to contingency lodging and support facilities
(cantonment area) as well as flightline, operations, and maintenance facili-
ties, all DFAC operations can be consolidated and a midnight meal provided.
At these type locations, some bases have used their BEAR kitchens in a dual
kitchen-dining configuration.
4.6.4.1. For locations where the main cantonment area and flight line func-
tions are separated, many units establish two primary DFACs during sus-
tainment; a main cantonment DFAC and a smaller flightline feeding facility,
or even a full-size flightline DFAC. Flightline feeding can cover numerous
requirements, such as aircrew flight meals as well as aircraft ground-crew
and industrial support shop personnel (ground support meals). If flightlines
support passengers and medical unit evacuation facilities, you must address
these additional meal requirements. A small flightline feeding facility may
not be able to handle all the requirements; it may require a flightline DFAC.
4.6.4.2. When planning for sustainment at bases with large geographic areas
and where there are at least two large DFACs, food service managers' must
consider the ability to manage and provide meals for both DFACs. This may
not necessarily mean providing three or four hot meals at each DFAC. Even
when additional personnel become available (such as through large support
contracts or civilians) to support food preparation, serving, or clean-up, it
may not be efficient, effective, or necessary to provide three or four hot
meals at each DFAC.
4.6.4.3. As indicated under planning for subsistence, the choice of meal
packaging can be very important in meeting requirements for 14-day menu
planning. New planning factors allow locations with populations of more
than 3,500 to order pre-cooked food items in order to meet preparation and
cooking times. Using precooked food items can help prevent having to ob-
tain more personnel and order much more cooking equipment just to meet
normal meal serving timeframes.
4.6.4.4. Whether or not you use precooked meals, sustainment plans (at long-
term locations) require WRM equipment replacement in favor of commercial
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               55

equipment. AFI 25-101, War Reserve Material (WRM) Program Guidance
and Procedures addresses how the theater Logistics officer and CE are to
consider transitions to more permanent resources (or contract support) and
reconstitute BEAR assets when missions will extend beyond six months.
There are several reasons to convert. US power generation may not be re-
tained except for emergency operations. Therefore, using all-electric, com-
mercial equipment that can operate off host-nation power or a commercial
grade generator system means that you can stay in business. This may be the
case when CE is going to replace many of the facilities on base and convert
to international power production standards. They usually do this through
use of a contractor to operate a commercial-based power plant at the base.
The other main reason to convert is that it is often very difficult to maintain
existing WRM systems due to a lack of readily available parts, and CE and
SV have a very limited ability to repair and maintain the equipment. Newer
commercial equipment can often be purchased with a greater, faster avail-
ability of parts, as well as service and support agreements.
4.6.4.4.1. When purchasing new equipment, check with the CCO, CE, and
especially with your theater's SV personnel (including other deployed SV
squadrons) to make sure which equipment, contractors, and support systems
are reliable, provide support in-country, and have had no problems at other
locations. Make sure that support contracts require contractors to have a
stock of common parts readily available so that repairs can be made on or
within two days of the service call. Having to wait several weeks for equip-
ment repairs is an unacceptable standard during a contingency.
4.6.4.4.2. When you know (from experience or word-of-mouth from other
locations) that some equipment takes longer to repair, buy a backup for criti-
cal equipment items.
4.6.5. Other Planning Issues. Once planning and programming regarding
numbers, kinds of meals, and number of DFACs are complete, address QoL
enhancements such as obtaining more baked items, frozen desserts, and va-
rieties of beverages. These items are usually low cost and have a short turn-
around, enabling a large morale benefit during deployments. Local com-
manders may be applying pressure to provide these morale boosters, but be
aware that any purchases with contingency funds must pass tests for justifi-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              56

cation and propriety. When possible, NAF may be used for some items. See
AFH 10-247, Volume 6, Guide to Services Contingency Planning: Resource
Management and Quality of Life regarding any restrictions on use of appro-
priated funds (APFs) and NAFs for funding morale-enhancing purchases.
Some other food service-related efforts that have been used as morale enhan-
cers are: holiday meals, birthday meals, ethic meals, and monthly squadron
and wing cookouts (Figure 4.9).
Figure 4.9. Special Occasion Meals.




4.6.5.1. Special Coffee and Ice Cream Machines. These are relatively low
cost items that can be obtained through standard supply channels or sup-
ported in theater. Be aware that these machines may require additional main-
tenance, cleaning, parts, and specially prepared food items to support them
(e.g., a variety of coffees, creamers, sugars/sweeteners, flavors, and freezer
mix ingredients). Parts, water sources, and electrical power are also concerns
that must be addressed before ordering.
4.6.5.2. Adjunct Food Contracts. These are food vendors or concessionaires
that are not part of an AAFES vendor support contract. They provide a spe-
cialty food or specialized, sometimes prepackaged food item. When AAFES
is not providing a vendor for burgers, pizza, hot dogs, Oriental, Hispanic, or
other specialty food items, SV can provide this adjunct food option through
NAF employees or a vendor contract. Some vendors are brand-name com-
mercial vendors that are in-theater, but not on an AAFES contract (Figure
4.10). This is an area normally handled by recreation or fitness resale opera-
tions working with contracting to meet a special area of demand (specialty
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               57

coffee house, fitness-type sports drinks and energy bar cafe, ice cream par-
lor, and doughnut shop products). However, the food service manager should
determine if the popular specialty item can be routinely provided at the
DFAC. The DFAC menu should not be limited in variety in order to build up
a NAF activity.
Figure 4.10. Services Adjunct Food Contracts.




4.6.6. Flightline Feeding. A flightline feeding operation may be required at
aircraft beddown locations. If possible, the flightline kitchen should be lo-
cated in the main field kitchen to maximize manpower. However, a separate
facility may be justified based on geographic separation, high flightline
population, limited shift break capability (partly time-distance based), tran-
sient aircraft, and need to manage a surge capability. These are all reasons to
plan for a flightline feeding capability and possibly a DFAC. Manpower for
the flight kitchen is included in the current capability of the Prime RIBS
UTC. There are several types of meals offered that should be covered in your
planning such as flight meals, MREs, sandwich meals, and frozen meals.
4.6.7. Medical and Patient Feeding. This is an area where each location
may be different based on the size of the medical unit, its primary function,
typical patient injuries treated, and resources for medical evacuation. Sus-
tainment operations for medical and patient feeding follow two schedules–
one for SV and one for the Medical Group. When the Medical Group begins
sustainment operations, SV should be prepared to begin sustainment support
as well and efforts of both must be coordinated. There are sustainment ac-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                 58

tions that the medical unit must take with SV to obtain food carts, distribu-
tion carts, insulated meal trays, and meal accessory packets, as well as addi-
tional miscellaneous accessories. SV may have to obtain additional or differ-
ent strainers and blenders to meet some of the preparation needs.
4.6.7.1. Initial planning provides for three meals (UGRs and A-Rations) per
day for 90% of the patients being treated, 100% of convalescent patients, and
100% of patients at a base with an aeromedical staging facility. Flight meals
will be needed for aeromedical evacuation patients based on the planned
number of evacuees per day. Dietetic personnel should augment SV to pre-
pare all special diet meals for patients. Dietetic personnel determine, order,
and prepare medically unique ration items. SV planners must coordinate
with dietetic personnel to ensure medical feeding requirements are identified
appropriately.
4.6.7.2. During sustainment, SV must be aware of what type meals the die-
tetics staff may need in order to plan for and order items that are common
ration items. Some meals, such as those that require tube feeding, of course
are obtained and managed by the Medical Group. Patients on feeding tubes
are fed with commercial tube feeding formulas ordered by Medical. How-
ever, most menu needs can be met by SV working with the dietetics person-
nel. Sustainment purchases by or for SV should include insulated carts and
chests, sometimes heated or cooled, to carry the meals to the medical unit, as
well as the transportation for these temporary carriers. This could be a vehi-
cle, a vehicle and trailer, or a separate special trailer with a standard pintle-
hook tow bar. Additional small beverage containers or dispensers may be
required for transport and use at the medical unit.
4.6.7.3. There are generally nine classes of meals that the standard SV
kitchen can support. These are listed in Army Field Manual 4-02.56, Army
Medical Field Feeding Operations, and are available to the dietetic person-
nel (of all branches of the armed forces). The manual also includes informa-
tion on using some MREs for diet support. Additional information can also
be found in AFH 10-247, Volume 2, Guide To Services Contingency Feed-
ing Operations.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                            59

4.6.8. Equipment Expansion. Sustainment food service actions must be
worked in concert with facility and utility upgrades. Contract-supplied
equipment may replace or augment WRM assets. If turning in WRM shelters
and moving to fixed facilities, order new food service support equipment to
replace WRM equipment that will be returned. Based on standard meals and
the requirements by population, determine kitchen storage, preparation area,
cooking, and serving area needs. Work with CE to ensure that any equipment
items ordered are compatible with the available and planned electrical sys-
tems. The Defense Government Supply Center (DGSC) Customer Valued
Contracting section provides support to identify main support contract ven-
dors that supply equipment for out-of-CONUS locations (direct shipped to
the location when possible). Also, ensure CE is providing adequate water
support piped to the DFAC complex to replace bottled water whenever pos-
sible. Replacement cooking equipment should provide for an all-electric ca-
pability.
4.6.8.1. The size of the DFAC should be based on AFH 32-1084, Facility
Requirements, as well as DFAC storage planning factors. Calculate require-
ments based on the served population (POPSUM). DFACs generally follow
Golden Eagle standards as adapted for theater use. An example of an adapta-
tion is that deployed DFACs should be based on 4- and 6-person tables with
no booths and no two-person tables.
4.6.8.2. Storage at a DFAC is a major planning issue. Careful consideration
and coordination with the NAF-C and AFSVA/SVOHF will eliminate any
unforeseen problems.
4.6.8.3. Most DFACs require added space at their facilities to handle the
immediate needs for items that cannot be stored at the main subsistence
warehouse. Sustainment is a time when food SV managers should identify
and obtain storage, such as shipping boxes, site-erected storage units, and
commercial storage containers. These may be obtained as equipment-type
items for lease or purchase. When placed in rows near DFACs, they can cut
down on noise and wind and provide additional force protection as a barrier
(Figure 4.11). However, make sure they are anchored as some are relatively
light and can be blown into structures by high winds.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                            60

Figure 4.11. DFAC Storage Containers Provide a Barrier Wall.




4.7. Contract Support. As with ordering equipment separately, ensure that
equipment ordered as part of a building system package (including any re-
frigeration equipment for the subsistence warehouse or DFAC) is heavy
duty, commercial equipment supportable with replacement parts. Whenever
possible, obtain a maintenance or service contract to maintain equipment.
This will require food service personnel to qualify as quality assurance
evaluators (QAEs) and obtain training from the CCO for monitoring the con-
tract. Keep good QAE records and maintain a continuity file to turn over to
the next AEF rotation. Food service managers should order backups for criti-
cal equipment items and parts (as deemed necessary with CE) when there is
a known inability to make rapid repairs on the equipment.
4.7.1. Due to repeated turnover of personnel, incoming managers face a cri-
sis whenever critical equipment breaks unless very good records were kept
in (SV and CE) continuity briefings, continuity files, and comprehensive
food service manager computer files. Consider using long-term support con-
tracts for warehouse management and food service management during ex-
tended sustainment. This can alleviate many of the continuity-based prob-
lems. When use of long-term AFCAP or theater contracts is allowed, sus-
tainment planning should identify that future rotations can cut back on the
number of SV personnel. However, remember that QAE training must be
obtained prior to arriving on station.
4.7.2. Some theater contracts with SV QAE oversight can provide better
overall operational support, including replacement of equipment, for long-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                61

term sustainment operations. Long-term, large installations actually benefit
from better continuity in planning and purchasing by contract than by con-
stantly rotating AEF Prime RIBS UTCs. During planning, if an ESVS com-
mander determines that use of a full scale or limited support contract is justi-
fiable, the commander should coordinate with the theater's SV deployment
planners and identify possible contract requirements in early sustainment
planning and budgeting documents. This will normally require an estimated
contract cost for the support. Provide the local contracting office any func-
tional facility and operational diagram layouts with the SOW when contract-
ing for new facilities, equipment, and a food service contract operation.
4.7.3. Theater SV planners may determine (or theater policy may already
allow) limited contract support to augment a portion of the food service op-
eration or provide facilities, equipment, and vehicles. The ESVS commander
and food service managers should then consider the full range of contract
options, such as civilian augmentation, theater contracts for equipment and
facilities, and use of an AFCAP contract. Determine if CE is already using a
theater or AFCAP contract for facilities or CE support services. There can be
economies of scale by having one good contractor performing and integrat-
ing work efforts.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               62

                                 Chapter 5

                   LODGING AND LAUNDRY-LINEN

5.1. Overview. Members of a Prime Readiness in Base Service (RIBS) team
are responsible for establishing and maintaining a solid field lodging and
laundry operation at a deployed location. The type of deployment and loca-
tion determines the method of operation used. SV personnel will also need to
consider what actions to take if fixed facilities are available instead of WRM
shelters; if personnel need to be lodged by organization instead of on a first-
come first-serve basis. This chapter will help planners prepare to provide the
best service possible, regardless of the situation. Most AEF wing sized de-
ployments follow basic FM phasing requirements that provide mission IOC
within 10 days and SV IOC within 14 to 30 days. SV full IOC provides lodg-
ing with up to 12 personnel per TEMPER tent and a self-help laundry, if
laundry BPAs are not available. Follow-on UTCs that provide SV with a
FOC is usually obtained between days 30 and 60, depending on the flow of
equipment and threat constraints. FOC is intended to provide a full self-help
laundry and an organizational laundry support that is usually supported with
a combination of laundry equipment and local contracts. Lodging standards
also improve from 12 personnel per tent to eight personnel per tent, or
equivalent sized shelters.
5.2. Lodging Operations. The capability to beddown forces is first identi-
fied using existing facilities and equipment (dormitories, family housing,
etc.) or commercial quarters. When fixed assets are insufficient or not avail-
able, WRM assets are used for planning surge capability for main operating,
collocated operating, forward operating, or bare bases. Primary bedding is
sleeping bags until QoL improvements are made. For Collocated Operating
Bases (COBs), Forward Operating Locations (FOLs), and Bare Bases (BBs),
limit the number of front desk operations per beddown location to the mini-
mum number absolutely necessary to meet mission requirements. Control all
bed space assignments and terminations through the lodging desk.
5.2.1. Lodging WRM. Lodging WRM is materiel required in addition to
primary operating stocks and mobility equipment to attain the operational
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              63

objectives in the scenarios authorized for sustainability planning in the De-
fense Planning Guidance. Broad categories are: consumables associated with
sortie generation (to include munitions, aircraft external fuel tanks, racks,
adapters, and pylons); vehicles; 463L systems; materiel handling equipment;
aircraft engines; bare base assets; individual clothing and equipment; muni-
tions; and subsistence. The following BEAR assets are key components to
lodging.
5.2.1.1. BEAR 150 Housekeeping Set, also known as Swift BEAR (UTC
XFB1A). This housekeeping set supports a maximum of 150 personnel for
approximately 5 days. It provides austere shelter (12 persons per tent, cots
and environmental control), basic hygiene, low voltage electrical generation
and distribution, and forklift support. The set weighs 44 tons and requires
17.5 pallet positions (one C-17) to airlift.
5.2.1.2. BEAR 550 Initial Housekeeping Set (UTC XFBH1). The BEAR
550I provides billeting and self-help laundry to support 550 personnel. The
set includes 48 small shelter systems (SSSs) for billeting 12 people per tent
on 576 cots and two SSSs for the self-help laundry. The set weighs 229 tons
and requires 78 pallet positions (six C-17s) to airlift.
5.2.1.3. BEAR 550 Follow-On Housekeeping Set (UTC XFBBF). The
“550F” can be deployed after or in conjunction with the 550I to support an
additional 550 personnel. It provides additional billeting, latrine, ECU, high
and low voltage electrical generation and distribution, water distribution and
camp lighting. The set weighs 188 tons and requires 61 pallet positions (five
C-17s) to airlift.
5.2.2.. BEAR Shelters. Shelters are the arguably the number one concern
when setting up the base. BEAR equipment packages have a variety of shel-
ter systems to support and maintain a deployed air base. The next few sec-
tions explore these shelters and some of their major components.
5.2.2.1. Small Shelter System (SSS). An all-purpose tent, commonly referred
to as the Alaska Small Shelter System (Figure 5.1), is the designated re-
placement for the TEMPER tent, through attrition. It can be used for billet-
ing, work areas, latrines/showers, storage, etc. When fully erected, the shel-
ter measures 32.5 feet long, by 20 feet wide, by 10 feet high (650 sq ft), and
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              64

multiple shelters can be interconnected. The site should be flat and well-
drained, with no more than 11 inches of slope across the floor area. Com-
pared to the TEMPER, the SSS is lighter, more vector proof, easier to
heat/cool and repair, and can withstand steady 50-knot winds and gusts up to
60 knots. Setup takes 6 people about 2 hours.
Figure 5.1. Small Shelter System.




5.2.2.2. Medium Shelter System (MSS). A medium sized all-purpose shel-
ter selected to replace general purpose shelters and is used as a warehouse,
maintenance area, and kitchen (Figure 5.2). Constructed of synthetic fabric
over aluminum arch sections with rubberized floor mat, the MSS provides
tighter protection from dust and insects and takes up less shipping space than
GP shelters. It can withstand steady 60-knot winds and gusts up to 90 knots.
Measures 52 feet long by 30 feet wide and 15 feet high. Site should be flat
and well-drained, with no more than 18” of slope across the floor area. Setup
is accomplished with 6 people in about 4 hours.
Figure 5.2. Medium Shelter System.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               65

5.3. Sister Services Assets. Table 5.1 compares the Army’s Force Provider
and the Navy’s Camp 750 housekeeping sets to the AF’s BEAR set.
Table 5.1. BEAR Housekeeping, Force Provider, and Camp 750 Sets.

     US Air Force                 US Army                   US Navy
       BEAR 550                Force Provider              Camp 750
   Housekeeping Set           (550 Person Set)          (750 Person Set)
    (550 Person Set)
Stand alone warm-          Assembled by task-        Provides complete liv-
weather, personnel sup-    organized Quarter mas-    ing facilities for 750
port package               ter Company               personnel (75 Officers,
                                                     613 enlisted, 62 person
                                                     complement)
Setup varies depending     Setup of std module: 63   Setup (initial) within
on mission. Typical        personnel take 120 hrs    one day, followed by
PRIME BEEF comple-         to complete (varies       additional improve-
ment can achieve initial   depending on required     ments over 2-5 days.
operational capacity       site preparation, cli-
(IOC) within 72-hrs.       mate, layout configura-
                           tion & personnel ex-
                           perience levels.
Billeting Subsystem        Billeting Subsystem       Billeting
SSS/TEMPER (48)            TEMPER Tents (44)         GP Medium Tents (62)
(UTC XFBB7)
Environmental Control
Units (72)
 (UTC XFBD5)
Admin Facility             Admin Facility            Admin Facilities
Subsystem                  Subsystem
SSS (4)                    TEMPER Tents (6)          GP Medium Tents (3)
                                                     GP Medium Tents (1) –
                                                     Dispensary
Shower Subsystem           Shower Subsystem          Shower
(UTC XFBL7)
SSS (2)                    TEMPER Tents (6)          12-head shower unit (6)
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                66

      US Air Force                 US Army                   US Navy
        BEAR 550               Force Provider               Camp 750
   Housekeeping Set           (550 Person Set)           (750 Person Set)
    (550 Person Set)
6 stalls w/2 shower        Portable shower/shave
heads ea/12 sinks (2)      stands
                           M-80 Water Heater (1)
Laundry System (UTC        Laundry System             Laundry
XFBLS)
Self-Help Laundry          Portable Water System      Container ISU 90;
(Playbook Option)          (1)                        washer/dryer (2)
10 Washers and 20 dry-     Blackwater Contain-        Modular GP Tent (2)
ers per 550 personnel      ment (1)
                           3,000 gallon storage
                           tank and pump (op-
                           tional)
SSS (4)                    TEMPER Tents (6)           GP Medium Tents (3)
                                                      GP Medium Tents (1) –
                                                      Dispensary
Latrine                    Latrine                    Latrine
SSS (2)                    Containerized Latrine      4-hole burnout head and
                                                      Latrine (15)
Field Latrine w/6 seats    24 toilets, four urinals
& 2 sinks (2) (UTC         and eight sinks
XFBL9)
5.4. Permanent Facilities. As the sustainment lengthens and as the popula-
tion stabilizes, you can expect CE to start making the site more permanent.
Hard-walling the different types of shelters is one way of improving the QoL
for both the community and facility managers.
5.5. Coalition/Host Nation Local Assets. The first step in planning for
lodging contingency operations is to determine if there are any known exist-
ing facilities or services that could be used for contingency lodging, shower,
shave, or latrine support. Even some austere bases have existing facilities
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                 67

and utilities that can be used initially for expedient lodging (Figure 5.3).
Determine if there are any known environmental hazards that could restrict
operations or require theater logistics, contract, or engineering support be-
fore the facilities or sites are usable. There may be host nation restrictions on
use of certain types of facilities due to location, environmental pollution, loss
of service to existing inhabitants, or other support concerns. (e.g., environ-
mental problems and digging restriction may prevent CE from installing
latrines and shower/shave units without first upgrading sewage systems or
tying into existing sewer lines. This can cause initial delays in installing la-
trines and shower/shave units and could cause additional problems with lo-
cating contingency lodging).
Figure 5.3. Hangar Facility Used for Initial Field Lodging.




5.6. Locally Constructed or Portable Modular Buildings. SV command-
ers must determine with CE, CCOs, and theater planners if local contracts
are available to provide modular buildings to improve QoL. Some locations
have found that local contracts can provide raw materials or labor needed to
replace WRM facilities. Simply put, local labor is able to construct many
single story contingency buildings and shelters. However, since local con-
struction standards, skills, and materials are sometimes poor. SV personnel
at earthquake-prone or severe-weather locations may not be able to consider
using locally constructed facilities. Other locations have found that trailers or
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                68

modular facilities are available, and these can be a good choice for many SV
facilities, especially contingency lodging. For a long-term presence, espe-
cially if bad or extreme weather conditions are a problem, it may be a more
sound approach to order and erect larger pre-engineered metal buildings,
modular structures, heavy-duty fabric shelters, and K-Span structures as pic-
tured in Figure 5.4. These facilities can provide SV with space for larger
storage, contingency lodging (especially transient lodging), DFACs, and
multi-purpose fitness and recreational functions.
Figure 5.4. Contract Support Used for Contingency Upgrades.




5.7. Site Layout. The basic layout concept is to have the flightline opera-
tions facilities and shops, heavy equipment and industrial support, and aerial
port operations along the ramp. Administrative offices are located between
the ramp facilities and the lodging facilities. Lodging should be located in
areas that are high, dry, have relatively flat ground, and have good drainage.
To minimize noise and dust, keep main roadways to flightline and industrial
areas away from lodging areas (Figure 5.5). Some locations will have areas
for future expansion of lodging. In some cases this is not feasible and lodg-
ing support for newer missions may have to be on the other side of a ramp,
to a geographically separated area, or near industrial or storage areas (that
are free of excessive noise, dust, and lighting). While this can create duplica-
tion of efforts and facilities, it may be unavoidable if there is insufficient
land to allow for onsite expansion. Ensure supporting UTCs are sized to ac-
count for lodging communities that are geographically separated from main
base support services.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              69

Figure 5.5. Normal Layout by Groups.




5.7.1. Force Protection and Safety Issues. Coordinate with SF before final
layout of lodging facilities and SV community support functions. Figures
5.5 and 5.6 illustrate differences in layout of lodging blocks (more often re-
ferred to as billeting blocks by CE). One location used staggered (semi-
dispersed) rows, whereas the other employed symmetric rows. Applying
different layouts may be required for weather conditions, but using semi-
dispersed layout is usually dictated by the threat level.
Figure 5.6. Separate Lodging Community Away from Main Base.




5.7.2. Facility group layouts-number of tents per group. For higher threats,
facilities may have to be dispersed into fully dispersed or semi-dispersed
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               70

layouts. This can greatly affect the size of the entire lodging community and
increase the installation time and efforts for the utility systems that must
support the more dispersed facilities. Some dispersal plans may not be fully
supportable with the existing utility kits. Figure 5.7 shows the dimensions
necessary to support semi-dispersed and dispersed billeting block layouts for
24-tent/288-person layouts. A primary limiting factor for dispersing facilities
within the lodging/general SV support areas is the base electrical and plumb-
ing systems. Work closely with CE if dispersal is required. Modernization
efforts that use SSSs versus TEMPER tents should not affect the spacing, but
changes to and upgrades of the electrical systems could affect the ability to
disperse layouts. BEAR modernization efforts are underway and will affect
layout of lodging facilities. Legacy Harvest Eagle based systems and de-
ployments that had to incorporate some older joint service assets have typi-
cally been laid out in smaller clusters. Meet with CE to determine if they
have adequate resources that make it possible to create the lodging complex
as a symmetric block instead of in an older cluster layout.
Figure 5.7. Semi-Dispersed and Dispersed Billeting Blocks.




5.7.3. Accountability of Personnel. Ensure that SV UTC manning matches
the flow of incoming personnel. It will help to meet arriving personnel and
identify permanent party and transients who might stay over. Lodging man-
agers should work with PERSCO to develop an accurate head count of per-
manent party personnel. Brief arriving passengers as a group, issue lodging
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                71

assignments and linens, and help with luggage issues. Be sure to brief on
safety and quarters responsibilities. After the briefing, permanent party per-
sonnel may be turned over to first sergeants or their sponsors for additional
processing questions.
5.7.3.1. Locator System and PERSCO Support. It is best to operate a locator
system to account for personnel in base shelters as well as commercial quar-
ters or contingency quarters. Tracking of personnel information and assign-
ment to a bed space is handled on an AF Form 245, Employment Locator
and Processing Checklist if lodging software is not available.
5.7.3.2. Lodging offices are required to maintain AF Form 245s alphabeti-
cally in a file. They will provide one copy of the AF Form 245 to the indi-
vidual’s unit (for development of an alpha roster) and one to the PERSCO
team to assist in the management of deployed personnel. PERSCO and SV
will maintain alpha rosters for all deployed personnel on location. The AF
Form 245 may also serve as a hand receipt for equipment issued from the
lodging office, or use an AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt. If ini-
tially there are no AF Form 245s, use 3” x 5” cards maintained in alphabeti-
cal order, a logbook, or an electronic spreadsheet/database. As a minimum,
include the individuals name, grade, Air Force Specialty, and tent num-
ber/contract quarters information in the book. Reserve a page for each tent or
contract quarter. Assignment tracking is important not only for personnel
accounting, but also for issuing or tracking initial support assets (i.e., cots,
bedding [except unit sleeping bags], furniture or equipment).
5.7.4. Quarters Assignments. During the initial phase of deployments, most
units will want their personnel to be lodged close to each other. It is easier
for the units to control and account for their personnel when lodged together.
Lodging managers should make every effort to assign unit personnel in their
own sections and workers that work the same shift together. Lodging man-
agers should ensure crew rest and crew integrity is maintained. Similar type
aircrews, and aircrews scheduled on the same flights, should be kept to-
gether. Set up aircrew quarters in an area adequately separated from noise,
lighting, traffic, and other disruptions that would interfere with crew rest.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               72

5.8. Laundry/Linen Operations. Even during the initial phase of deploy-
ment, you should have already ordered or have on-hand heavy-duty, high-
efficiency washers and dryers as part of a WRM laundry system.
REMEMBER that higher spin rate washers require shorter drying times.
Make up for any shortages in these systems and consider obtaining package
systems within the modular structures. The installed units should be high-
efficiency, commercial-duty washers and dryers wired for either dual power
or to match the predominant power supply used on base. Equipment should
have spare parts and maintenance contracts when available. Order and stock
spare washers and dryers. Determine how many spare washers and dryers are
needed based on rates of use and any savings from not having to contract for
additional capacity. Meet with CE and determine a realistic, acceptable stan-
dard for repairing machines and having machines out-of-order. You may
find that having 20-40 percent of a type of machine (washer or dryer) down
for a certain number of days is acceptable. You also need to establish a sys-
tem for self-identifying or having someone report equipment that is out of
service. Users should be able to quickly notify you that a repair or replace-
ment is needed.
5.8.1. Self-Help Laundry Planning Factors. The BEAR 550I has a playbook
option UTC XFBLS that has two self-help laundry centers that combined
have 10 washers and 20 dryers to support 550 personnel (Figure 5.8). The
system is equipped with benches, laundry products with instructions for ba-
sic Do’s and Don'ts, folding tables, trash receptacles, and temporary hanging
racks/lines/hooks. If self-help laundries become a minor gathering place,
then consider providing some amenities, such as a covered porch with addi-
tional chairs, small tables, additional lighting for reading or card games, and
even a rudimentary sound system for radio and music from Armed Forces
Radio and Television Service (AFRTS) or other accessible channel.
5.8.2. Sustainment Operations. Sustainment is the time to ensure you have
enough capability to provide laundry support even if there are problems with
contracts. It means working with CE to overcome problems with providing
self-help laundries with improved power and water. After living in austere
conditions and having no laundry support except self-help washers and dry-
ers––SV planner’s can raise the QoL of laundry and linen support by using
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               73

civilian contractors. The major emphasis for sustainment laundry and linen
support is to obtain contracts to support linen and, when possible, for laundry
if able to obtain three to four day turnaround on clothing. If limited by on-
base water and power problems, then seek off-base contracts. Having ade-
quate self-help laundry centers is still a requirement even with adequate con-
tract support. Providing deployed personnel with the ability to quickly wash
and take care of items is not only a convenience, but can greatly cut down on
the number of items included in standard contracts.
Figure. 5.8. Self Help Laundry.




5.8.3. Establishing Contract Laundry/Linen. The first thing to check when
considering a contract is the availability and adequacy of contract laundry
services. Meet with your Contracting Officer to determine available methods
(example: local contract, central theater contract, one of the three contractor
augmentation program, etc.). Based on populations and organizations, calcu-
late total weekly laundry loads based on types of laundry service required
(personal, medical, and organizational), as well as linen/bedding service re-
quirements.
5.8.3.1. The War and Mobilization Plan (WMP) Services Supplement plan-
ning factors for laundry are: (1) personal laundry of 17 pounds per person
per week (pppw), (2) medical patients and medical personnel of 32 pounds
pppw, and (3) organizational bulk laundry of 10 pounds pppw (determine if
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                             74

there are any short or long term geographic, weather, or medical factors that
would require adjusting the WMP factors). For arid regions, the availability
of water could affect laundry services during the initial beddown until all
sources are developed. Determine if contract, medical, self-help and organ-
izational laundries, or a combination of these will be required. If contract
services are provided, then the main issue is to site facilities and develop
procedures for pick-up and drop-off of clothing, linen, and bedding.
5.8.3.2. Location of Drop-off/Pick-up Points(s). Locate drop-off and pick-up
points at easy to find locations. Laundry services guidelines must be estab-
lished and posted where customers can clearly see them.
5.8.3.3. Types of Service Required/Available. So far, this section has cov-
ered two types of laundry service available during the sustainment phase.
Self-help service that provides personnel the equipment and supplies for
washing their own clothes; locally procured commercial units, which SV
maintains and cleans certain organizational linen. In addition to these ser-
vices, you may deal with the following types of service.
5.8.3.3.1. Dry Cleaning. This service may or may not be available depending
on the deployment location. If a contractor is accessible, try to obtain dry
cleaning service as a QoL improvement.
5.8.3.3.2. Medical Support. Medical laundry support will be required when a
medical unit is located on the base. Normally, one two-washer commercially
procured unit can wash 100 pounds of clothes at the same time. The time for
a complete cycle varies by setting, and the medical cleaning cycles tend to
run longer than standard linens. Medical cleaning may require a 40- to 55-
minute cycle and some products can not be washed together, preventing
maximum loading of commercially procured units. Based on the medical
population for an expeditionary medical system (EMEDS) unit, calculate
how many two washer/two-dryer commercially procured units will be re-
quired. Table 5.2 outlines planning factors for various size EMEDS.
5.8.3.3.2.1. Whether you obtain armed forces (preconfigured) commercially
procured laundry systems or work with CE to create a commercially pro-
cured system, the equipment is less of an issue than providing effective
medical laundry support. Medical laundries have higher cleanliness needs
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               75

and present greater hazards (i.e., medical biohazards) than normal laundry.
Some biohazard clothing and linens must be segregated and maintained
separately prior to cleaning, this presents logistics problems for the medical
unit, SV, and the transporters. Obtain contract support when possible, but
keep in mind that using off-base contractors may cause security and cleanli-
ness concerns.
Table 5.2. Planning Load Factors for Various Size EMEDS.

               EMEDS Designation            Amount of Laundry
                                             (pounds per week)
            EMEDS Basic = 4 Beds                   1,000
            EMEDS + 10 = 10 Beds                   2,000
            EMEDS + 25 = 25 Beds                   3,600
            EMEDS + 50 = 50 Beds                   9,000
            EMEDS + 114 = 114 Beds                20,920

5.9. Sustainment and Quality of Life Planning. The Prime RIBS contin-
gency lodging manager's primary goals for sustainment operations are to
improve field lodging conditions; promote health, safety, and morale; and
also meet mission and AEF rotational surge requirements. Enhancements for
QoL must be made with consideration for promoting health, safety, and mo-
rale. Lodging managers seldom have the luxury of being able to lease three-
and four-star hotels or large fixed facilities for deployments. Most deploy-
ments will use WRM deployment packages from the AF or Army. Depend-
ing on whether your location becomes a long-term support location and al-
lows upgrading to permanent facilities or remains a short-term location that
retains WRM assets, there are several approaches to improving QoL. De-
ployment funding is usually limited, so the quality of contingency lodging
will usually be expected to be lower than in CONUS.
5.9.1. Basic QoL Improvements. Basic ways to improve QoL for deployed
personnel within shelters and facilities revolve around several factors such as
individual/individualized space, individual storage, improved beds, common
areas with shared furnishings, and added amenities. Each of these factors can
be juggled to help improve QoL and comfort. There are also basic ways to
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               76

improve QoL outside of each person's lodging area by improving or provid-
ing for common covered rest areas, walkways, and access and convenience
to support facilities (latrines, shower-shave areas, fitness and recreation,
laundry and dining facilities, etc.). Except at large, long-term locations that
take on forward operating base (FOB) status with fixed facilities, control of
contingency lodging will remain primarily with SV, working with unit first
sergeants. This is especially important to remember when you are working
with joint service and coalition forces.
5.9.1.1. It is wise to review and adjust allocation of space as necessary for
each AEF rotation for increase-decrease in mission forces. Units and first
sergeants must provide correct information on the number of personnel in
their units and accurately forecast the number of personnel coming in to re-
place them during a rotation. A large difference in space per person between
various units creates morale problems and can waste critical resources.
5.9.1.2. There are basic minimum standards that should be sought during
sustainment. Contingency lodging space is based on a standard 20-foot by
32-foot, four-section TEMPER tent, or a 20-foot by 32.5-foot, five-section
SSS. Sustainment planning should provide lodging requirements as outlined
in Table 5.3. If more permanent type facilities such as prefabricated or
hardwall facilities are planned and budgeted for, obtain a suitable facility
within contingency construction budgets. Facilities should be sized to meet
minimum requirements.
5.9.4. When purchasing sustainment items, necessities such as twin bed
frames, linens, mattresses, and lockers should be purchased with appropri-
ated funds (APF)s. Determine if amenities (such as iron and ironing boards,
desks, chairs, etc.) are necessities to be funded from APFs. It may be possi-
ble to purchase items like alarm clocks or clock radios and bed lamps; how-
ever, these items are not necessities or even normal amenities for contin-
gency operations, especially when there are power limitations. Some of these
items are personal preference items (i.e., not commonly used or wanted by
all members), and can become noise or light nuisances within a small con-
fined shelter without partitions. For visiting Distinguished Visitor (DV)
quarters, provide alarm clocks if clock radios are not feasible due to lack of
available radio stations.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                77

Table 5.3. Contingency Lodging—Basic Minimum Standards.
                        Space
                                                       Storage
Deployment                 Persons
               SF per                    Bedding         and       Amenities
  phase                   per fabric
               person                                   other
                           shelter
Initial        40         20           Sleeping bag    None       None
Beddown                                & cot
Surge
Operate        ~55        12           Sleeping bag    Wall       None
                                       & cot           lockers
Operate        80+        No more      Sleeping bag    Wall       None
(Flight                   than 8       & cot           lockers
Crews)
Sustainment    80+        8            Twin bed        Wall       One common
using fabric                           w/frame &       lockers    area w/limited
shelters                               mattress,                  or no rations
                                       blankets,                  per shelter.
                                       linens, &                  To have
                                       pillows                    several small
                                                                  chairs & one
                                                                  iron/ironing
                                                                  board.
Sustainment    N/A        8            Bunk beds       Wall       One fabric
using fabric                           w/mattress,     lockers    shelter to be
shelters                               blanket, lin-   & shared   used as com-
(cont.)                                ens & pillow    night      mon area
                                                       stands     shared by 10
                                                                  fabric shel-
                                                                  ters.
Sustainment    80+        ––           Twin beds       Wall       One common
using pre-                             w/mattresses,   lockers    area per floor
fabricated                             blankets,       & night    w/TV-DVD,
or hardwall                            linens, pil-    stands     desk & chair,
facilities                             lows                       small chairs,
                                                                  & one
                                                                  iron/ironing
                                                                  board.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                   78

                          Space
                                                         Storage
Deployment                   Persons
                SF per                     Bedding         and       Amenities
  phase                     per fabric
                person                                    other
                             shelter
Sustainment     ~105        No more      Twin beds or    Wall       Limited parti-
(flight                     than 6       bunk beds       lockers    tions; several
crews)                                   w/mattresses,   & night    small chairs,
                                         blankets,       stands     1 iron/ ironing
                                         linens, pil-               board or same
                                         lows                       as Sustain-
                                                                    ment using
                                                                    prefabricated
                                                                    facilities.


Sustainment     ~110                     Twin beds       Wall       One common
(flight crews                            w/mattresses,   lockers    area per floor
in hardwall                              blankets,       & night    with TV-
shelters)                                linens, pil-    stands     DVD, desk &
                                         lows                       chair, small
                                                                    chairs, & one
                                                                    iron/ironing
                                                                    board.
Rotational      Try to      No more      Beds w/mat-     Any        Share
Surge           provide     than 16      tresses,        lockers    w/existing
(using spare    40+                      blankets,       that fit   personnel
bunk bed                                 linens,
spaces)                                  pillows
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                   79

Rotational      Try to       Use what-     Cots & sleep-   None      None
Surge (using    provide      ever size     ing bags or
any avail-      at least     shelter       beds
able shelter)   40           that avail-   w/mattresses,
                             able          blankets,
                                           linens, &
                                           pillows if
                                           available



                           Space
                                                           Storage
Deployment                    Persons
                SF per                       Bedding         and      Amenities
  phase                      per fabric
                person                                      other
                              shelter
Visiting DV     ~110         4             Twin bed        Wall      Partitioned
plus com-                                  w/mattress,     lockers   rooms w/desk
mon area                                   blankets,       & night   & chair, clock
                                           linens, &       stands    radio, iron &
                                           pillow                    ironing board;
                                                                     common area
                                                                     with 1 or 2
                                                                     lounge chairs,
                                                                     small couch,
                                                                     TV-DVD, &
                                                                     table
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              80

Installation   ~110 to   4           Twin bed       Wall       Same as DV.
& Senior       150                   w/mattress,    lockers    Partitioned
Group CCs                            blankets,      & night    rooms w/desk
(for a com-                          linens, &      stand      & chair, clock
mon area                             pillow                    radio, lounge
for small                                                      chair, iron &
working                                                        ironing board;
meetings)                                                      common area
                                                               with several
                                                               folding chairs,
                                                               two lounge
                                                               chairs, table,
                                                               & TV-DVD.

5.9.4.1. Due to the potential for rapid population growth during the Estab-
lish- and Operate-the-Airbase phases of deployment, there may be a mix of
expandable shelters, trailers, WRM shelters, and some existing fixed facili-
ties used for contingency lodging. During sustainment, new hardwall struc-
tures may be added.
5.9.4.2. Prime RIBS lodging managers must work with first sergeants to al-
locate amenities and space. Take additional efforts to prevent both perceived
and actual difference in levels of support and quality, which could lead to
morale problems.
5.9.5. Sustainment is a time to improve the accessibility of various support
areas (e.g., DFACs, recreation, latrines, shower and shave units, etc.) for
personnel in contingency lodging. If the sustainment mission population is
lower than the initial beddown estimates, this provides an opportunity to
expand and alleviate tightly-spaced tent city communities and regroup per-
sonnel by mission and function, after mission populations stabilize.
5.9.5.1. Maintain good records regarding numbers of personnel supported to
allow replacement and upgrade planning of latrines, showers, and shave fa-
cilities that support the lodging complex. Even though most unit populations
may remain relatively stable, there is occasionally a rotational surge when
one AEF rotation is arriving and the other departing, after a short overlap.
There is no set way to handle this overlap surge. Sometimes the major surge
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                81

population can be accommodated with extra space provided by bunk beds.
Sometimes larger multipurpose shelters within the community area can be
used with cots and sleeping bags or spare frames and mattresses.
5.9.5.2. A common QoL concern during rotational changeover is to ensure
that the incoming rotation does not inherit dirty living quarters from the out-
going rotation. SV lodging managers must work closely with first sergeants
to ensure all quarters are cleaned and areas around them are maintained. If
contract support personnel are available, they can help with general cleanup,
trash removal, and moving furnishings and bedding for any space or equip-
ment reallocations.
5.9.6. If all units do not rotate at the same time, which is common with joint
operations, avoid moving large groups of personnel in a mass shuffle in or-
der to reallocate space and reorganize units. If mass shuffles are required, try
to limit them to once a rotation (for the rotation being moved). Of course,
there is less resistance to mass shuffles if the moving personnel are going
into an area that is more desirable to them. Again, this may be accomplished
by providing more amenities, a more convenient location, more living space,
and common areas outside the shelters.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               82

                                 Chapter 6

                         MORTUARY AFFAIRS

6.1. Overview. The AF Mortuary Affairs (MA) program provides support
across the full range of military operations and is divided into three distinct
programs–Current Death Program, Concurrent Death Program, and Tempo-
rary Interment. Components of these programs include search and recovery
(S&R), identification, transportation of remains, management of government
mortuary facilities and mortuary services. See the following publications for
more detailed information concerning mortuary affairs; JP 4-06, Mortuary
Affairs in Joint Operations, AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, and AFI
34-244, Disposition of Personal Property and Effects.
6.2. Current Death Program. The current death program operates world-
wide during peacetime. Under this program, human remains are returned to a
place designated by the person authorized to direct disposition (PADD) for
permanent disposition. The decedent’s personal effects (PE) are shipped to
the person eligible to receive effects (PERE) in accordance with Service
regulations and procedures.
6.3. Concurrent Return Program. Under this program, eligible personnel
are provided with professional mortuary services, supplies and related ser-
vices during peacetime and contingency or wartime operations. The Concur-
rent Return Program provides for search, recovery and evacuation of remains
to a mortuary, where remains of eligible personnel are identified and pre-
pared as designated by the PADD and shipped to the final destination for
permanent disposition. NOTE: This program may continue during a major
military operation if tactical operations and logistics permit.
6.4. Temporary Interment. Temporary interment is only permitted as a last
resort; every effort should be made to evacuate remains as soon as possible.
Situations that may require temporary interment include weapons of mass
destruction, hostilities, transportation shortages, a large number of remains
that overwhelm manpower capabilities, insufficient capability to decontami-
nate remains, or insufficient refrigeration space. Unit commanders must ob-
tain permission from the geographic CCDR to conduct temporary interment
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              83

operations. When circumstances warrant temporary interment, every effort
should be made to return human remains to the respective nation as soon as
possible. When interment is required, separate interment sites should be es-
tablished for burial of US, allied, coalition and enemy deceased. When in-
terment occurs and remains are to be transferred from interment sites, com-
manders will maintain records and provide information for friendly or enemy
deceased for which they have responsibility.
6.4.1. Selection of Temporary Interment Site. The site should on high ground
with good drainage, free of large obstacles, away from main roads and popu-
lated areas, free from flood zones and have adequate soil depth above the
water table. CE will determine what equipment is available to perform re-
quired tasks for the types of soil and local conditions. The layout should be
site specific and not necessarily strictly follow book values for spacing and
depth. Enough space must be provided between rows to prevent equipment
from caving in or sliding into the trenches when excavating and covering the
remains. Engineers may also be required to assist SV personnel when plac-
ing row markers. The location of temporary burial sites should be deter-
mined during the “Operate the Airbase” FM. The primary and alternate sites
for temporary burial locations should be clearly identified using grid coordi-
nates. The site selection should be coordinated between CE and SV. Note: In
operations in which US Army forces are involved, the Army component
commander is ordinarily assigned responsibility of operating temporary in-
terment sites.
6.4.2. Interment Site Dimensions. Temporary burial sites do not contain in-
dividual graves, but will consist of straight rows (trenches). The number of
remains will determine the number of sites needed. No more than 10 re-
mains, head to foot lengthwise, will be placed in each trench. The rows will
be 70 feet long, 3 ½ feet deep and 3 feet wide. For contaminated remains, the
depth should be 6 1/2 ft and trenches should be 80’ long. A distance of 3 feet
between trench rows will be maintained. The base civil engineer will provide
mechanical trenching, or other earth moving equipment, with operators.
Separate rows will be used for US, allied and enemy decedents.
6.4.3. Support from Other Organizations. There will be a number of organi-
zations ready to help when needed. The following organizations are avail-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               84

able to assist: US Army, AF mortuary, the AF Services Agency, CE, Logis-
tics, Transportation, SF and the AF Medical Examiner (AFME).
6.5. Beddown Operations. Preliminary mortuary capabilities should arrive
during the initial 24 hours of a deployment with the LWRRA team and the
LWRRG kit. Support for S&R builds with the flow of UTCs within the
overall FM flow for deployment.
6.6. Roles and Responsibilities. Each Service is responsible for MA sup-
port, to include identification and disposition of human remains and PE, for
its own personnel unless otherwise directed by the geographic CCDR or mu-
tual support agreements between the Services. In all cases, the direct initial
contact with family members of deceased personnel is performed by the par-
ent service. The Coast Guard is the only service that does not provide MA
capability to it units overseas during combat operations; it relies on the geo-
graphic CCDR for support. The Army also provides ground force collection
point (CP) support and general support (GS) to Coast Guard units as needed.
However, the Coast Guard provides or arranges its own MA support in the
CONUS and during peacetime.
6.6.1. The Armed Forces Medical Examiner (AFME) System. The roles and
responsibilities of the AFME are outlined in Title 10 US Code Section 1471,
DODD 5154.24, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology (AFIP), DODI
5154.30, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology Operations, and implemented
by multi-Service regulations (Army Regulation (AR) 40-57/Bureau of Medi-
cine and Surgery Instruction (BUMEDINST) 5360.26/Air Force Joint In-
struction (AFJI) 44-111, Armed Forces Medical Examiner System). In gen-
eral, the AFME has the authority to conduct a forensic pathology investiga-
tion, including an autopsy, of the death of any military member serving on
active duty where the Federal government has exclusive jurisdictional au-
thority, including where the circumstances surrounding the death are suspi-
cious, unexpected, or unexplained. Normally, the AFME operates as a sup-
porting agency to the CCDR. The AFME coordinates with the CCDRs and
SV to determine if support is required.
6.6.1.1. In wartime, the AFME will review every case to determine the cause
and manner of death. AFME secures information for completion of military
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               85

records, protects the welfare of the military community such as in the inves-
tigation of novel wounding agents or possible “friendly fire” or when the
service member is an aircrew member and the death occurs during flight
operations but not as a result of hostile fire. The AFME, in consultation with
relevant law enforcement, intelligence, and safety agencies, and the geo-
graphic combatant or subordinate JFC, has the authority to order such autop-
sies in the operational area or upon the return of human remains to other lo-
cations (CONUS/ Outside the Continental United States [OCONUS]).
6.6.1.2. When a detainee death occurs, the commander of the detention facil-
ity or the unit exercising custody over the individual will coordinate with the
AFME, who will determine whether an autopsy will be performed. The hu-
man remains shall not be released from US custody without authorization
from the AFME and the responsible commander.
6.6.1.3. The AFME has the expertise in the fields of forensic sciences and
provides consultative support to the Services in the identification process.
These techniques include anthropological comparison, dentition comparison
technology, and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) testing. The AFME also pro-
vides medical certification for cause of death and manner of death. SV and
combatant commands may request from the AFME assistance in the identifi-
cation of any human remains.
6.6.2. Port-of-Entry Mortuary Facility. Dover Air Force Base port-of-entry
military mortuary is operated by the AF and handles most human remains
returned from OCONUS. Human remains are embalmed (if necessary),
dressed, casketed, and prepared for shipment. Coordination is made with SV
to arrange for disposition of the human remains as directed by the PADD.
During military operations or mass casualty/fatality incidents, the CONUS
military port mortuary can be activated to completely process human re-
mains. This can include autopsy and/or medical examination when supported
by the AFME. The Federal Bureau of Investigation also provides support for
identification of human remains as required.
6.7. Health and Safety Concerns. Ideally, human remains should be left in
place until a trained investigator can document their location, condition, etc.
However, for humanitarian, jurisdictional, and practical reasons, there is
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                86

usually pressure to promptly remove human remains from a scene, so the
Interim Safety Board and/or recovery/rescue personnel may not wait until
the full Safety Investigation Board has assembled. Additionally, in some
climates, it could be essential to the health and safety of those working in the
vicinity of the wreckage to promptly remove remains.
6.8. Flow of Remains. Figure 6.1 illustrates flow of remains and subsequent
paragraphs outline the flow of remains from the CCP to the Port Mortuary.
Figure 6.1. Flow of Remains.




6.8.1. Casualty Collection Point (CCP). The CCPs are normally located near
a medical facility and managed by medical personnel. A SV representative
will normally coordinate with the CCP to begin actions to receive remains. A
competent medical authority is required to declare death at the CCP.
6.8.2. Mortuary Collection Point (MCP). The MCP’s main purpose is to
move remains, including PE found on the person and other accompanying
PE, to the Dover AFB port mortuary as quickly as possible for processing
and identification (bag, tag, encase and ship). Inventory all PE to include
items attached to the remains (rings, necklaces, etc) and items found in the
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               87

pockets (wallet, money, etc). Rings, watches, necklaces, ID (dog) tags
should not be removed from the remains, but must be included on the inven-
tory. PE removed from pockets and inventoried must be placed in PE bags
(Ziploc) and attached to the remains.
6.8.3. Theater Mortuary Evacuation Points (TMEPs). TMEPs are established
to evacuate all remains and accompanying PE to a government mortuary.
6.8.4. Aerial Port. The aerial port will receive remains from the TMEP, re-
cord them on DD Form 1077 and ice remains for shipment if practical. The
remains will be shipped to Dover AFB port mortuary. Note: Remains may
flow directly to Dover AFB port mortuary.
6.8.5. Port Mortuary. SV specialty teams will receive remains at the port
mortuary at Dover AFB. Members will be given port mortuary training for
the tasks being performed at the mortuary.
6.8.6. Personal Effects. The Mortuary Officer is totally responsible for han-
dling and disposing of the PE of deceased personnel. Mortuary personnel
have no authority to arbitrarily destroy personal effects. If remains are being
shipped to a port mortuary, all PE should be shipped with the remains to the
port mortuary. Port mortuary personnel should contact HQ AFSVA/SVOM
to obtain instructions from the authorized recipient and if any problems arise
with shipping remains or PE. Note: CENTCOM procedures take precedence
when the Army is the executive agent of the Mortuary.
6.9. Facilities and Equipment. BEAR housekeeping sets include one
TEMPER tent or small shelter system designated for mortuary purposes.
6.9.1. Site Selection/Location of the MCP. The MCP should be physically
separated from the main living and working areas and should have natural or
artificial cover to screen it from casual view. The location should have an
access road for vehicles and sufficient space for processing and holding ar-
eas. The MCP should have a water supply, proper drainage, a power source,
adequate lighting, good ventilation, and refrigerated storage capability. The
layout of the MCP follows a strict configuration that ensures no steps are
overlooked. Refer to JP 4-06 for detailed information on facility layout. A
perimeter should be established to prevent unauthorized personnel and news
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                            88

media from entering the area. AFH 10-247, Volume 4, Guide to Contingency
Planning: Mortuary Affairs Search and Recovery offers more detailed in-
formation about site planning.
6.9.2. Water, Power, Waste Products. CE will ensure the MCP has running
water and power. The water run-off will be captured in a containment berm
underneath the tent. The containment berm encompasses the circumference
of the tent. The run-off will be pumped into a containment bladder for later
disposal or a sump may be used. The sump should be lined with a CBRN
protective cover to prohibit seepage into the ground.
6.9.3. LWRRG UTC Mortuary Items. Listed in Table 6.1 are items included
in the LWRRG UTC. All items are to be packed in the transfer case along
with recreation items also listed in this UTC.
Table 6.1 LWRRG UTC Mortuary Supplies.
                                   ITEM                        QTY
             Pouch, Human Remains                              10
             Case, Transfer                                     1
             Hammerless Survey stake 20" (100 per case)        10
             Flags 2 colors (324 per case)                      4
             Piggy back splicer (100 per case)                  1
             Convertible gear bag (Back-Pack)                   5
             Certificate of Death Overseas (DD Form 2064)      100
             Collection Point Register of Deceased Personnel
             (DD Form 1077)                                    50
             Convoy List of Remains of Deceased Personnel
             (DD Form 1075)                                    50
             Interment/Disinterment Register (DD Form 1079)    50
             Log Book, Record                                  1
             AFI 34-242, AF Mortuary Affairs                    1
             Joint Pub 4-06, Mortuary Affairs in Joint Ops      1
             Bed Sheets (dozen)                                 1
             BAG, PLASTIC, 18 X 12 IN. (MX)                    1
             Tags, Cloth w/ Tie (HD count)                     50
             Gloves, Leather Workman's (Lg)                    40
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                89

                                  ITEM                       QTY
             Bag, Plastic, 36 X 54 In (MX)                     1
             Bag, Plastic, 6 X 8 In (MX)                      1
             Gloves, Surgical (Med) (50 Ct)                   6
             Gloves, Surgical (Sm) (50 Ct)                    6
             Mask, Surgical (50 Ct)                           6
             Apron, Plastic (Ea)                              15

6.10. Search & Recovery (S&R). S&R capabilities are primarily built when
sustainment operations begin, but SV personnel should train to provide at
least an initial cadre capability for S&R during the establish the airbase
phase of beddown.
6.10.1. Most response team preparations have historically been based on the
response to a mishap involving military personnel and military aircraft.
However, deaths caused by other fatal occurrences (i.e., ground transporta-
tion mishaps, fires, enemy or terrorist attacks, or natural disasters) could re-
quire S&R. Response to these events should be handled with procedures
similar to those involving aircraft mishaps. Develop base and unit OIs that
define roles of the major responding members. Be aware that wing plans for
disaster responses will also cover many aspects of responses where S&R
operations will be employed. The wing plans and unit OIs must be compati-
ble. S&R pre-planning should address: (1) having a workable team roster
with recall procedures; (2) an updated list of supporting agencies (including
AFSVA/SVOM); (3) standard sets of reporting procedures and locations; (4)
a full set of checklists for confirming availability of the equipment, supplies,
communications, and transportation requirements; (5) standard safety and
security procedures; and (6) identifying the types of facilities for holding,
tentatively identifying, and examining remains.
6.10.2. Based on the type of terrain and scatter of wreckage and remains,
determine the possible and feasible primary method or methods for search
and recovery. Details on actual search methods (i.e., standard area sweeps,
lane sweeps, grid searches, crater-impact area searches, and building room-
hallway searches) are presented in AFH 10-247 Volume 4, Guide to Services
Contingency Planning: Mortuary Affairs Search and Recovery, Section 4.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                             90

6.10.3. Required Personnel. Maintain competent, trained S&R team and en-
sure the team is appropriately staffed to conduct continuous S&R operations
with 26 personnel operating at any given time (2 teams of 13-persons each).
6.10.4. Select team leaders from the SV organization based on experience,
training, physical ability and mental attitude. Ensure team members are
trained in human anatomy and the ability to recognize portions of human
anatomy.
6.11. Mortuary Affairs Decontamination Collection Point (MADCP).
The Army, as the Executive Agent for Mortuary Affairs, has dedicated de-
contamination teams and is responsible to respond to all contamination
events. They are responsible for decontamination and certification of re-
mains as decontaminated prior to transport out of the AOR or within
CONUS. If a chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear (CBRN) threat
exists, they may set up a MADCP. The Joint Mortuary Affairs Office
(JMAO) acts as the theater central point of contact for coordination for this
operation.
6.11.1. Air Force SV personnel may be assigned to support MADCP opera-
tions. These personnel must be thoroughly trained in CBRN defense and use
of personnel protective measures and personnel detection. Although all SV
personnel have knowledge of and capability to utilize protective gear (MOPP
levels), the first personnel considered to support MADCP operations are the
specially trained Fatality Search and Recovery Teams (FSRTs). These teams
will conduct operations under the guidance of the Army MADCP personnel.
6.11.2. FSRT capability resides both in the active duty and Air National
Guard (ANG) components. (See Chapter 9 for more information on FSRT).
Each component has ten 11-person teams specifically trained to conduct
search and recovery operations in a CBRN environment. These teams must
rely, however, on other duty specialties to provide specific information re-
garding the threat and required MOPP level to operate safely.
6.12. Other than MADCP Operations. If a CBRN incident occurs, and the
Army cannot respond, the SV Mortuary Officer must ensure recovery site
operations outlined in FM 4-20-64, Mortuary Affairs Operations, are fol-
lowed. Once contaminated remains are determined safe to handle by EOD,
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                 91

the recovery may begin, and remains are placed in a chemical-biological
(CB) human remains pouch, if available. If not, double bag the remains, to
minimize the spread of contamination. The remains must be appropriately
tagged, including annotating applicable forms and markers to indicate the
type of contamination. Personnel evacuating contaminated remains to a
MADCP must remain in PPE and vehicles or other transportation used to
evacuate contaminated human remains must be monitored and decontami-
nated as required. If remains cannot be transported to the MADCP, tempo-
rary refrigerated storage (contain) is the first option. If not possible, permis-
sion for temporary interment must be gained from the theater combatant
commander.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                92

                                  Chapter 7

       FITNESS AND SPORTS, RECREATION, LEARNING
     RESOURCE CENTER (LRC), AND EXCHANGE SUPPORT

7.1. Overview. SV forces must be prepared to fulfill their mission across the
spectrum of conflicts and under a full range of environments. In addition to
providing core capabilities of feeding operations, lodgment of forces, and
mortuary affairs, SV forces are also required to keep Airmen fit to fight, re-
generate Airmen, keep Airmen connected to the outside world, and host field
exchange programs. This chapter addresses some common aspects of deliv-
ering these important morale, welfare, and recreation services to a deployed
population. Keep in mind throughout this chapter that the quality of the ser-
vice you provide is only limited by manpower, equipment, and inventiveness
you can apply to the deployed situation.
7.2. Force Module Phase. Planners should expect that the major compo-
nents of the SV capability for supporting fitness, recreation, resource centers,
and Exchange support will begin arriving in the Operate the Airbase force
module. While obviously subordinate in priority to the more immediately
necessary functions such as food service and lodging, build up for these mo-
rale boosting services should be provided as soon as feasible. Personnel and
UTC support for these recreational functions is based on the deployed popu-
lation and not the number or type of aircraft deployed to the location. Keep
in mind that the level of recreation you can provide will partially depend on
the local threat and level of hostilities at your location. Hostile environments
often do not allow fully functioning fitness and recreational activities. Use
the information in Table 7.1 as a guide for what to expect.
7.3. Beddown Support. Upon arrival at the deployed location, begin review-
ing, and modifying your predeployment plans as necessary to meet site con-
ditions. Many predeployment plans can be implemented with minor modifi-
cation, except as influenced by the flow of resources or changes that may
have occurred while in transit. If deployed to a joint task force, immediately
determine who is currently in charge of the location.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                93

Table 7.1. WMP 1 Services Programming Chart.
 SPORTS & FITNESS               RECREATION                 LIBRARY
                          HOSTILE ENVIRONMENT
None. Intense labor con-    Paperback books,      Paperback book Kit.
ditions will not allow      playing cards & board
fitness activities.         games.
                          LOW SCALE HOSTILITIES
Self-directed programs      Establish recreation  Paperback book kit, Peri-
with deployment kits.       tent, library, movie  odic kit, Video (20 per
Initiate a fitness center   operation & resale    100 people), CDs (10 per
facility.                   operation.            100 people).
                               SUSTAINMENT
Self-directed and di-       Expanded programs     Paperback book kit, Peri-
rected programs, leagues and activities. Ticket   odic kit, Core Reference –
and tournaments. Mirror     and tours program and 22 Titles, Education sup-
home station programs       lounge operation      port (DANTES and CLEP
where possible.             where possible.       materials, plus materials
                                                  to support locally spon-
                                                  sored courses). Videos
                                                  (20 per 100 people), CDs
                                                  (10 per 100 people.
7.3.1. Establish points of contact with other base units to ensure mutual sup-
port despite what may be various plans and levels of authority.
7.3.2. It is important to maintain control of resources. Although Logistics or
CE is ultimately accountable for WRM assets, SV is responsible for assets
under their direct control. As in other elements of beddown, accountability
for pallets, crates, containers, and special packing materials is essential for
reconstitution. Controlled items must be accounted for prior to transferring
to gaining units.
7.4. Facilities and Shelters. Fitness, recreation, and resale/exchange facili-
ties should be laid out in a centralized area near main paths of travel to din-
ing facilities. If serving a joint operation, determine with other service coun-
terparts what assets are being shipped in and where they should be posi-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                94

tioned to better serve overall resale, fitness, and recreational needs. When
possible, plan to locate satellite resale functions near the flightline and pri-
mary work areas.
7.4.1. Fitness and recreation facilities are usually erected from TEMPER
tents, general-purpose shelters, or the newer Small or Medium Shelter Sys-
tems. When possible, establish a large SV resale operation or an AAFES
Direct Operation Exchange–Tactical (DOX-T) in highly secure facilities
with hard-walls, such as an expandable shelter container, modular facility, or
mobile trailer unit. If hard-walled facilities are not available, tents (one for
resale and one for storage) may be used, but must be secure.
7.4.2. Fitness, recreation, resale, theater, education, and library facili-
ties/services all add to the QoL at a bare base. Realistically, most of these
“sustainment” functions cannot be initially supported at the level desired by
patrons because delivery of higher priority mission equipment precludes it.
Figure 7.1 illustrates the difference between initial and a more sustained
level of support.
Figure 7.1. Interim Program versus Full Scale Fitness Facility.




7.4.3. Meeting QoL needs should be reviewed after transportation flow be-
comes predictable. Until then, determine what the current highest priorities
are at your location. Users' needs will be somewhat governed by the unique
environment of the bare base and your ability, or lack there of, to obtain
equipment and support by contract before all UTC equipment sets arrive.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               95

7.4.4. Plan to improve facilities once operations have reached full operating
capability. Submit work orders to CE requesting facility improvements.
7.4.4.1. Hard-walled shelters not only protect equipment, but can also pro-
vide force protection features.
7.4.4.2. Modular buildings make great facilities for housing computers with
built in delicate electronics. These shelters can typically seal out dust and
water very well.
7.4.4.3. A low cost alternative is to utilize coalition or host nation assets.
When coalition or host nation facilities are used, establish a memorandum of
understanding in writing to determine who will be responsible for what and
file it for future rotations to use.
7.4.4.4. Attempt to secure a contract for cleanup, towel support, and trash
pickup. Order quality vacuum cleaners and have contract help use them as
needed to keep sand and dirt away from equipment. Develop a monitoring
system that allows users, military volunteers, and contract helpers to keep
track of and report maintenance or cleanliness problems with individual ma-
chines and surrounding areas.
7.5. Keeping Airmen Fit to Fight (Fitness). Fitness personnel design exer-
cise programs, procure equipment, maintain equipment, provide mental and
physical health maintenance, stress relief, and healthy diversions from com-
bat activities through self-directed and directed exercise programs. Fitness
operations adapt both outdoor and indoor facilities to provide exercise op-
portunities that keep Airmen fit to fight. Initially, fitness infrastructure is
austere, but progresses in scope as equipment is procured and facilities are
improved.
7.5.1. Fitness Equipment. Planners should expect that fitness equipment at
remote locations will be used 24/7. This, combined with the harsh environ-
mental conditions, will result in the need for more frequent repair and re-
placement than equipment at a CONUS base. To be proactive, fitness per-
sonnel should try to obtain high quality equipment and provide more fre-
quent and aggressive operator-level care and maintenance.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                96

7.5.1.1. Most equipment can normally be obtained using the Defense Logis-
tics Agency (DLA) main support contract. Coordinate with your NAF-C for
use of the theater equipment support contract and consider recommendations
and experience from nearby bases. This is particularly useful when seeking
repair and service contracts, which may be difficult to get. Also, look for
opportunities to pick up used equipment from nearby closing bases/units.
Ask your NAF-C about redistribution of used equipment as this is usually a
faster way to obtain quality items and parts.
7.5.1.2. Depending on the outside temperature and weather conditions at
your location, you should expect to have robust cardiovascular training
equipment such as stationary bicycles, treadmills, elliptical total body ma-
chines, stair steppers, and recumbent stationary bicycles. You will find that
some brands of equipment will hold up better than others and is more suited
to the austere environment. Free weights for instance are relatively trouble-
free, while equipment with moving parts (such as treadmills) are very sus-
ceptible to blowing sand and will require constant service and shielding from
the elements.
7.5.2. Self-Directed vs Directed Fitness. The Fitness and Sports program
should contribute to readiness and improve productivity by promoting total
fitness, esprit de corps and quality of life for deployed personnel. To fulfill
this intent, activities must have differing levels of involvement and support.
The degree of planning and effort involved in providing programs to cus-
tomers depend on the nature of the activity, mission requirements, customer
demand, and available resources. A short deployment may allow only lim-
ited programs, while contingencies lasting 6 months or longer require more
structured programs (i.e., intramural sports, instructional classes, etc.). Cus-
tomers can receive service through directed and self-directed activities. Usu-
ally a balance of the two works best.
7.5.2.1. Directed activities involve oversight by recreation specialists of SV
facilities and equipment. To obtain the desired service, the activity provides
customer assistance through either staff or contract services. A popular ex-
ample is a “combat aerobics” class lead by a fitness specialist or trained in-
structor.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                  97

7.5.2.2. Self-directed activities allow customers to use facilities and equip-
ment provided by the activity without the assistance of fitness and recrea-
tional staff. In self-directed programs, players abide by rules they establish
and monitor themselves. For example, half-court basketball games.
7.5.3. Importance of sports calendar and programming. Fitness and sports
programs are important recreational activities for deployed individuals as
well as for the entire AF. Program effectiveness has a positive impact on unit
esprit de corps, fitness, and health. There is no restriction in offering the fol-
lowing core sports programs: softball, basketball, volleyball, and flag foot-
ball. To maximize participation, unit commanders, first sergeants, and sec-
tion supervisors must be informed. Most intramural programs are seasonal
and the calendar is usually kept along the same time frames as collegiate
calendars. Geographical locations and weather conditions will invariably
affect the schedules for some sports.
7.5.4. Budgeting Forecasts. A 180 day deployment will seem to fly by; how-
ever, large quantities of supplies and equipment are consumed. Deployments
are hard on equipment because it is used so frequently––expect a treadmill or
PlayStation game to be used 18 to 20 hours a day. Every SV rotation should
attempt to leave the place in better shape than it was when they arrived. To
ensure troops arriving on the next rotation enjoy their tour, the outgoing rota-
tion must correctly budget for the supplies and equipment that are used regu-
larly. AFH 10-247, Vol 6, Guide to Services Contingency Planning: Re-
source Management describes in detail the APF and NAF budgets required
to robust QoL and sustain operations.
7.5.5. The mission at some locations may require long and strenuous work
days, or extreme weather conditions may divert environmental control
equipment from morale facilities, making it impractical to support fully
equipped fitness facilities. When faced with these scenarios, establish a rec-
reation tent, small library, and movie theater if possible.
7.6. Recreation. Airmen regeneration and recreation provides entertainment
and creates diversions from work stress and family separation anxiety by
providing decompression and regeneration of Airmen. Recreation provides
multiple mediums, virtual, tactile, creative, developmental, directed and self-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              98

directed in its programs. Recreational programming begins in earnest once
the base is open for operations.
7.6.1. The overall goal for a deployed recreation and regeneration program
should be to develop capabilities that support a variety of activities and ob-
tain permanent facilities that provide better support (Figure 7.2).
Figure 7.2. Determine What People Want and Get It.




7.6.2. Recreation comes in many forms and types. Programs should range
from self-directed to competition events, along with the capability to provide
indoor and outdoor locations; library service for magazines, books, video
and sound tapes and CDs; movies, TVs and large screen TVs with more
movies; live satellite events and news; phones and computers for morale
contacts; simple or electronic games; and tables for foosball, pool, and ping
pong. Always ensure you have a large number of replacement balls, paddles,
cues, chalk, etc. At some locations, the population size and changes to the
mission will require certain facilities to be taken away or added even
throughout sustainment.
7.6.3. Equipment List of the LWRRG UTC. The LWRRG has a minimal
amount of equipment and supplies that is authorized for purchase before you
deploy. It’s only enough to get the operation going, for sustainment more
items will have to be in the budget and once approved ordered. Table 7.2 is
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                            99

a comprehensive list of equipment and supplies (these items are not included
in the kit––you must purchase them locally and pack them with the primary
components).
Table 7.2. List of Recreation Equipment and Supplies.

                        Miscellaneous Items                  Quantity
   Clipboard (Ea)                                               4
   Pencil, #2 Med (Bx)                                          2
   Marker, China Black (Bx)                                     2
   Tablet, Paper, 8 X 10 1/2 (6-Pk)                             2
   Paper for printing (Bx)                                      2
   Pens (Bx)                                                    2
   Paper, Clips (Bx)                                            1
   Tape, Pressure Sensitive (Rolls)                             5
                          Recreation Items                   Quantity
   Game, Checkers Set (W/Board)                                 5
   Game, Chess Set (W/Board)                                    2
   Dominoes, double nice                                        5
   Game, Table Asst.                                            5
   Card Deck, Pinochle                                          12
   Card Deck, Standard                                          48
   Dartboard, bristle                                           2
   Darts, steel tip (set of 3)                                  8
   Game, Checkers Set (W/Board)                                 5
   Game, Chess Set (W/Board)                                    2
   Dominoes, double nice                                        5
   Game, Table Asst.                                            5
   Card Deck, Pinochle                                          12
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              100

   Card Deck, Standard                                           48
   Dartboard, bristle                                             2
   Darts, steel tip (set of 3)                                    8
                          Theater in a Box                    Quantity
   VCR/DVD Combination                                            1
   Video Projector                                                1
   Projector Bulb                                                 1
   Speakers (10")                                                 2
   Speaker Wire                                                   1
   Screen (Fast Fold) 54" X 74"                                   1
   Box, Custom Divided (HD w/ Lid)                                1
   Microphone, Handheld w/On-Off Switch (Shure SM58-S)            1
   Microphone Extension Cable (XRL to 1/4" Jack)                  1
   Extension Cord (50 Ft)                                         2
                         Computer Support                     Quantity
   Computer Laptop                                                4
   Carrying Case, Laptop                                          4
   Portable printer w/spare toner                                 4
   Extension Cord (25 Ft)                                         4
   Power Strip / Surge Suppressor                                 4
   USB mouse for laptops                                          4
   Admin supplies                                                 1

7.6.4. Programming Recreational Events. Develop morale building events
such as open microphone comedy routines, chances to display individual or
group musical talents, casino nights, as well as coordinated slide shows high-
lighting previous base activities. Additional events may include Super Bowl
parties, Mardi Gras Festivals, St. Patrick's Day parties, and Reggae Night
events. Recreation programs are managed as resources become available,
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               101

allowing perhaps the addition of Movie Nights, regular Armed Forces Net-
work broadcasts, ping pong, volleyball courts (with tournaments), horseshoe
pits, half-court basketball (utilizing AM-2 matting), foosball, darts and card
games (to include tournaments). Provide recreation items such as footballs,
Frisbees, chess games, and dominoes.
Figure 7.3. Casino Night.




7.6.5. Vending and Amusement Machines. If your location is not restricted
by local culture regarding gambling, you can provide add nominal games-of-
chance by obtaining slot and amusement machines. The theater and AFSVA
determine the use and availability of AFSVA slot machines, vending ma-
chines, and amusement machines in theater. If these machines can be used in
theater, first attempt to obtain AFSVA assets. If these are unavailable, obtain
local vendor-operated vending and amusement machines, unless there is a
conflict with similar AAFES machines.
7.6.6. Scheduling Events. Scheduling events can be cumbersome, especially
if SV planners are not coordinating with other competing activities. For ex-
ample, if the Fitness Center has scheduled an Easter Egg Fun Run on the
same day and time the Recreation Center has scheduled an Easter Egg Hunt,
one, or possibly both events, may not have the support it would have had if
the scheduling was coordinated between the two centers. To prevent sched-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               102

uling conflicts, SV planners should conduct and attend staff meetings regu-
larly.
7.6.7. Knowing Your Customer. Knowing Your Customer. One of the best
ways to maximize your programming efforts is to know the customer. By the
time you reach full operating capability, it should be known what the cus-
tomer likes and dislikes. If previous after action reports showed that there
was not interest in BINGO during previous rotations, don’t put it on the cal-
endar. Get to know customers’ likes and dislikes by having one-on-one talks
and conducting surveys. Surveying the target audience helps ensure a large
percentage of personnel will appreciate the hard work put into the support
provided.
7.6.8. Marketing Tools and Calendars. Good marketing and research will
help provide successful and effective recreational programs. Use marketing
experts to create, publicize, and coordinate your fitness, sports, and recrea-
tion activities. Marketing includes surveys, polling, fliers, bulletin boards,
local web pages, and handouts. Coordinate with other locations on what has
worked in the past and with AFSVA for additional marketing ideas. Also
review the Recreation Programming resource library on the AFSVA com-
munity of practice website for flyers, program descriptions, planning ele-
ments, and weekly and monthly calendars for deployed operations
(https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-DP-AE-12).
After your events are planned, post them on a public events calendar to pro-
vide lead-time for the troops to plan to attend. This is particularly important
for holiday events which generally have multiple organizations sponsoring
events. Creating a 15-month planning calendar—with events for the current
three months and tentative events for the subsequent 12 months—covers an
entire rotation and allows continuity for the next.

7.6.9. Promotional programs during deployment differ from those at home
station since professional marketing personnel are not available to assist.
However, this should not limit your creativity to promote your fitness or
sports activities. Your marketing should include a mix of advertising, public-
ity, personal contact, and internalizing in the field. SV members in charge of
these activities must ensure programs and activities are effectively promoted.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                 103

7.6.9.1. Advertising may be contracted in some deployed locations. Adver-
tising is any form of non-personal promotion that is usually paid for and
identifies you as the originator. Examples include: ads, posters, flyers, and
radio and television spots. In addition to various bulletins, place ads in the
base newspaper (if available). Flyers are perhaps the best method for adver-
tising and should be produced professionally if a contract is available. Dis-
play in all SV activities and other frequently visited base activities such as
the field exchange, field lodging check-in tent, field dining facility, post of-
fice, or the base bulletin board. Some deployed locations in USAFE and
PACAF have access to the AFRTS, which offers excellent opportunities to
advertise.
7.6.9.2. Publicity differs from advertising since it does not identify the origi-
nator. A paid ad in the base newspaper is a form of advertising. A SV mem-
ber writing a review of a program is a form of publicity. Advertising is better
for informing about upcoming events, while favorable publicity helps to
generate a good image because the endorsement comes from a third party.
Work with your unit SV commander and deployed public affairs representa-
tive to use both techniques.
7.6.9.3. Personal contact is the most effective method of promotion, although
it reaches fewer people. A personal presentation about a program carries
more impact than an ad in the paper. Use this method to brief first sergeants,
commanders, incoming personnel, and attendees at commanders' call.
7.6.9.4. One of the most overlooked means of effective promotion manage-
ment is to inform and support your own SV personnel. Use your contacts to
help get the word out through their channels and contacts. Direct your pro-
motion efforts toward other SV members and ensure all are fully briefed on
upcoming programs.
7.6.10. Resale Operations. Resale operations can be a great morale booster,
especially if the resale items meet customers’ needs. Many fitness minded
Airmen shop for products that enhance their fitness and health.
7.6.10.1. SV Resale Operations. NAF resale operations are normally estab-
lished on or about day 15 of the deployment and conducted as a part of the
lodging, fitness center and recreation center operations. Initially, these resale
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              104

operations focus on providing health and hygiene items for deployed person-
nel. Most deployed personnel will begin to need these items between days 15
and 30 of the deployment.
Figure 7.4. NAF Resale Operations.




7.6.10.2. Once the NAF resale operation is able to provide a stable supply of
health and hygiene items, the resale stock can then be expanded to include
morale items like sodas, candy, magazines and souvenirs. The expansion
normally occurs about day 30 of the deployment. If an AAFES exchange is
established, the SV NAF resale operation may be reduced to only include
morale and souvenir items. It is essential to coordinate with AAFES with
regard to what items will be sold through the NAF resale operation. More
detailed information can be found in AFH 10-247, Volume 6, Guide to Ser-
vices Contingency Planning: Resource Management.
7.6.11. Morale Phones. Telephones and computers are an important element
for Airman Regeneration, particularly for sustainment operations. Morale
phones allow deployed personnel to make frequent and real-time contact
with families and friends. Almost as popular are morale computers to send
personal electronic messages, but also to transmit time-sensitive family busi-
ness documents and ease the burden on relatives back home. Planners must
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              105

work closely with Communications personnel to ensure there are adequate
phone lines, computers and severs to sustain these operations.
Figure 7.5. Morale Phones and Computers Boost Morale




7.6.12. Professional Entertainment. SV schedules distinguished visitor ap-
pearances and entertainment through the Armed Forces Entertainment (AFE)
program, using either AFE directly, the United Service Organizations
(USO), or a combination tour. The AF is the executive agent for AFE. In
recent years, AFE presented more than 1,200 shows at 225 sites worldwide,
including Iraq, Afghanistan and other parts of Southwest Asia. Various mu-
sical artist (country, rock, rhythm and blues, Latin, and rap) perform live as
well as comedy groups and sports stars. SV efforts have provided for visits
from distinguished military and government officials and tours by talented
military members and military bands (such as Tops in Blue and the Army
and USAFE rock and regular bands).
7.6.12.1. Logistics of “Putting on a Show.” The logistics of putting on a
show is enormous. Some shows are easier than others depending on the
amount of people, supplies and equipment needed in the show. A one-man
comic show will be much easier to manage than say a World Wrestling En-
tertainment show with multiple participants and lots of equipment. Deployed
SV planners usually do not have to worry about how entertainers will get
there, but must worry about where they will set-up and stage their show.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                106

Working with the different sections at the deployed location will help make
the show a success with the troops.
7.6.12.2. Travel, Clearances, and Facilities. As mentioned previously, de-
ployed planners do not have to worry too much about the entertainers before
their arrival, but once they arrive, they will need a place to freshen up,
change clothes, eat, sleep, set-up and entertain. Some deployed locations
may have satellite locations that are on the schedule for the entertainers to
visit. In those instances, SV planners must secure all necessary clearances
for travel and schedule transportation for the entertainers. This may take
weeks of coordination, planning, and approvals.
7.6.12.3. Types of Entertainers/Entertainment. There are many types of en-
tertainment to choose from and the following paragraphs briefly discuss
some of the traditional types. Keep in mind that command support, budget-
ing, planning, requests and approvals all play a big part in making the proc-
ess work.
7.6.12.3.1. Deployed Personnel. One of the easiest ways to put on a show
with a tight budget is to use deployed personnel. Many troops are talented
singers, dancers, and comedians. It is usually not too difficult to stage a tal-
ent show with an enthusiastic crowd.
7.6.12.3.2. Armed Forces Entertainment (AFE). If you have command sup-
port and approval, working with AFE can ensure top quality performances
by some well-known artists. It is not uncommon for big name “stars” to visit
the front lines and other deployed areas. The Air Force Tops in Blue per-
formers and other contracted bands are usually available and ready to help
raise morale through AFE. Similarly, the United Services Organizations
(USO) has been serving the US Armed Forces since 1941 and have provided
legendary talent from Bob Hope to the Dallas Cowboy cheerleaders to enter-
tain the troops. Remember, careful planning and coordination is the key.
7.6.12.4. Requesting Entertainment. To request professional entertainment
(Figure 7.6), route the request through the AFE country coordinator. The
ESVS commander will likely be the coordinator if there is only one base in
the country. The ESVS commander forwards all requests to the regional co-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                             107

ordinator. This process is important for routing all issues to include com-
plaints on current acts or requests for future acts.
Figure 7.6. Professional Entertainment.




7.7. Keeping Airmen Connected to the Outside World. One of the most
valued resources at a deployed location is any program or facility that mini-
mizes the mental impact on Airmen of being thousands of miles from home.
As stated earlier, emails and morale phones are great tools. However, SV has
many other programs that can contribute to keeping Airmen connected to
their “normal” life. One such program is the Learning Resource Center
(LRC).
7.7.1. The LRC’s main mission is to centralize access and use of worldwide
education, knowledge, and information for deployed personnel. LRCs pro-
vide for intellectual pursuits for both continued professional development
and mental diversions from the daily realities of combat. Every effort is
made to bring connectivity between Airmen and their family, their profes-
sional military education, and recreational reading. The LRC organizes digi-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              108

tal and hard copy access (when available) to various media and shows that
even when deployed, education does not have to stop. An effective LRC
allows Airmen to experience quiet time for contemplation and introspection.
Lessons learned suggest that collocating the Library-LRC with other func-
tions hampers education because it creates noise and other distractions. Dur-
ing the Establish the Airbase phase, planners should begin considering which
on-site locations provide the quiet environment needed to make the LRC
suitable for studying and learning.
7.7.2. Each LWRR8 is augmented by a TFRR8 (LRC Education Support
UTC) to provide educational capabilities including DANTES, CLEP, Profes-
sional Military Education (PME), correspondence courses and other distance
learning. The LWRR8 UTC is also augmented by a 6KTDO (Work Group
Manager UTC) to support library and testing capabilities.
7.7.3. On the morale side, the LRC can provide DVDs, audio books, and
hardcopy books. Airmen should also be able to just come in to relax and read
the newspaper or favorite magazine. Another excellent morale booster is
setting up a “Hearts Apart” program that provides deployed parents opportu-
nities to video tape themselves reading a book to their children, along with a
free DVD and mail sleeve. And, some locations offer self-paced courses for
learning new languages; a great pastime while deployed.
7.7.4. Creating Atmosphere. Planners should continue to improve the atmos-
phere for education, learning, and study by providing adequate quiet space
for intensive research, classrooms, and even counseling. Establishing or
moving the Library-LRC operation into hard-walled facilities can go a long
way towards creating a suitable atmosphere.
7.7.5. Managing Assets. The Library will require separate racks and shelves
for paper-based educational materials and various forms of electronic media.
The LRC is usually responsible for maintaining accountability of library
assets from the supporting MAJCOM's library. When there are qualified
personnel assigned, the LRC can provide personnel with educational assis-
tance (enrollment in distance learning courses, tuition assistance, GI Bill,
educational counseling, and Community College of the Air Force [CCAF]);
upgrade training counseling, administering exams, and PME assistance from
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               109

the Air Force Institute for Advanced Distance Learning (AFIADL), Air War
College, Air Command and Staff College, and Squadron Officers School.
When qualified, the LRC can become an authorized DANTES Test Control
Facility. Testing may also include Certification Tests and SNCO Academy
correspondence course tests. Testing centers, although not a direct responsi-
bility of SV, are normally connected to LRCs. As the LRC assumes respon-
sibilities, it will have to grow the electronic resources to keep up with re-
quirements. An often overlooked piece of equipment is a safe. When setting
up the LRC for testing, ensure a safe is available to store controlled testing
materials.
7.7.6. Internet Cafes. The number of laptop or desk-top computers available,
information technology support, and internet connectivity capability will
determine if opening an Internet café is feasible. Coordinate with the Com-
munications experts on the availability of the Internet and possible assets
you may be able to sign-out.
7.7.7. Expanded Library Operations and Educational Requirements. The
level of educational support will vary depending on need and ability to pro-
vide accredited or certified support. Education support is a communications
equipment-intensive effort that requires telephone lines; staff, instructor and
student computers; internet access; printers; large TV with VCR, CD, and
DVD players; multimedia projectors; and numerous desks and work stations.
Qualified LRCs require a room to provide a controlled testing capability for
paper or computer-based test materials.
7.7.8. Expanding to Full Education Support. Library-LRC support requires
adequately trained personnel who can qualify as test control officers; manage
formal computerized library inventory management systems; and develop
and manage capabilities for online integrated library, library access, re-
search, and professional library resource systems. The ability to provide per-
sonnel who have these qualifications is extremely difficult, especially for
each rotation cycle. In CONUS, PACAF, and USAFE, these personnel are
typically civilians who receive degrees and hours of training to qualify for
and remain current as librarian and education services personnel. Determine
with theater and supporting MAJCOMs if it is possible to transition these
rotating UTC positions into civil servants who will volunteer for long-term
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               110

or annual tours. This will help provide much needed continuity of opera-
tions. If civilians are not available, seek an AFCAP contract for long-term
sustainment support. If seeking civilian contract support at joint service
bases, explore opportunities with sister services.
7.8. AAFES Resale Operations. If possible, an AAFES exchange operation
should be established at the deployed location. Most AAFES exchange op-
erations are established around day 60 of the deployment. Class VI supplies
(personal demand items) are AAFES items for sale to troops and authorized
individuals. Class VI supply support can be limited to basic health and com-
fort items or expanded to include food and beverages and entertainment
items. The availability of Class VI items can enhance morale. Each Theater
establishes a memorandum of understanding (MOU) outlining responsibili-
ties for supporting AAFES operations with the AOR. SV and CE planners
are typically responsible for siting an area for the exchange and providing
facilities and utilities.
7.8.1. Direct Operations Exchange-Tactical (DOX-T) Operations. As with
any operation, planning is required to ensure Class VI supplies are available
to the troops at the time and place required. The concept of obtaining resale
items from AAFES is divided into three phases, these phases are described
below.
7.8.1.1. Predeployment Phase. The predeployment phase is also referred to
as the loading and shipping phase. During this phase military planners work-
ing with AAFES will determine the stock assortments and quantities of each
item to be shipped for a particular Tactical Field Exchange. The assortment
of Class VI items will be tailored to fit the situation. They can include items
to entertain the troops and to make daily life more comfortable. These items
will be ordered by AAFES and shipped to the parent exchange for consolida-
tion and loading into containers for shipment to the deployment location.
Operating supplies required for the TFE will be provided by the parent ex-
change.
7.8.1.2. Deployment Phase. Containers with the Class VI items are shipped
to the operational area. The TFE Officer (TFEO) deploys as specified per his
or her unit’s tasking order. Immediately upon arrival in the operational area,
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              111

the TFEO must locate the containers shipped from the parent exchange and
arrange for further movement to the TFE site. When the containers arrive at
the TFE site, the TFE staff will conduct the appropriate inventories and es-
tablish TFE operations. Class VI resupply is coordinated between the TFEO
and the parent exchange.
7.8.1.3. Post-deployment Phase. Once the operation has been completed,
remaining inventory and operating supplies and equipment will be packaged
and returned to the parent exchange. Returned merchandise and operating
supplies and equipment are inventoried, accounted for, and returned to
AAFES stocks. In addition, all documentation, sales receipts, and returns are
reconciled. At this time, the TFEO is relieved of accountability for the TFE.
7.9. Robusting and Sustaining Operations. As operations transition from
open/establish the base FMs to the robust FM/sustainment, fitness and sports
take on a greater level of importance for maintaining health and building
morale. As sustainment continues and personnel settle in on each rotation,
recreation and education also become more important for allowing individu-
als to initiate or pursue military and educational improvement goals. Again,
refer back to Table 7.1 for fitness, sports and library programs that may be
available during different deployed environments.
7.9.1. Prime RIBS sustainment planning actions are somewhat dictated by
whether the deployment will be short-term or long-term. Short-term loca-
tions primarily use WRM or a limited number of deployable type container-
ized shelters to support activities, while long-term locations’ health and mo-
rale functions may transition to more permanent structures. In both cases,
QoL enhancements can be implemented with contingency appropriated
funds (APFs) and nonappropriated funds (NAFs).
7.9.2. The expected quality of service for major functional areas is to attain
minimum “Golden Eagle” standards based on base population. For fitness
programs, this equates to obtaining the minimum number of various types of
exercise equipment needed to support the population and providing fitness
activities, to include group sessions with instructors. For sports and recrea-
tion, provide a good mix of individual, self-paced, small group, team sports,
and larger organized group and competitive activities. Recreation managers
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              112

must understand the demographics of the deployed service personnel and
develop programs that fit their needs.
7.9.3. Efforts that work during one AEF rotation may not work for the next
based on demographics, weather, and availability of resources for entertain-
ment, education, and tours. The quality of support should not be limited by
remoteness. Work with first sergeants and others to make continual im-
provements to programs.
7.9.4. Planning for Expansion. As sustainment operations continue, expect
periods of increased population. SV planners must know what types of
equipment and facilities are available to meet these expanded needs. Specific
facilities are not ear-marked for fitness, recreation, or the LRC. SV planners
must coordinate with CE and Logistics to obtain additional facilities (tents,
modular building, and common or general purpose facilities). Coordinate
with reach-back sources to get authorization for additional facilities when
required.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               113

                                 Chapter 8

                   PROTOCOL FIELD OPERATIONS

8.1. Overview. The integration of Protocol into Services procedures ensures
a synergy and economy of force and allows for better planning for such
things as DV support that typically impact the normal flow of daily efforts.
This chapter focuses on the duties of the Protocol officer and enlisted UTCs.
The protocol officer UTC (LWRRP) deploys in the “establish the airbase”
stage of the FM construct and should arrive on or about day three. The
enlisted protocol UTC (LWRRQ) is not scheduled to arrive until “operate
the airbase” on or about day 15. The premise behind deploying them so early
is to provide additional support to the C2 element and to establish an under-
standing of the local customs and courtesies. Protocol is established to assist
commanders with host nation support tasks. Like everyone else in this FM,
the primary mission is to get the base set-up for full reception of forces.
8.2. Unique Situations at a Beddown Operation. Most deployed protocol
duties will be much the same as duties performed at home station; the differ-
ence arises from the deployment location. Other factors that may affect the
way protocol duties are performed include threat level and local customs.
Therefore, it is essential that protocol officers understand local customs and
courtesies. Some challenges could be cultural differences in how women,
enlisted, minorities are treated, and language barriers working with other
coalition forces. Other challenges include: alcohol, military environment,
personnel manning, threat awareness, austere living conditions, shared
spaces (a desk may have to be shared between shifts), and time zone (this
may lengthen the day if there is a need to reach back to other time zones).
The protocol officer will coordinate with organizations like customs, immi-
gration, and airfield operations upon the arrival of distinguished visitors
(DV). Be aware that requirement notifications may be minimal to none.
Building relationships with other base organizations will help lessen the im-
pact of short-notice requirements. Also keep in mind that it is imperative to
practice good operational security (OPSEC) and communications security
(COMSEC) for arriving DVs in a deployed environment.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                 114

8.2.1. Protocol Functions. Deploying to locations that are performing coali-
tion or combined operations is now the norm. Generally, protocol duties do
not change very much regardless of whether the job is with coalition, joint,
or AF forces. However, be prepared to work with and for military forces of
other nations. For example, you might deploy as an AF representative and
work for an Australian Chief of Protocol with two US Army officers. Each
country has a Senior Representative Officer, usually a general officer. After
arriving at your deployed location, determine the host nation relationship.
8.2.1.1. Base Level. More than likely, the AF protocol officer will work with
members from sister services in a deployed environment; therefore, it is use-
ful to know how other services deploy. The US Army deploys their person-
nel as a unit; however, their protocol office may not deploy at the on-set, but
come at a later date when needed. This may require the AF protocol officer
to cover a few DV visits until the Army officer arrives.
8.2.1.2. Combined Air Operations Center (CAOC/HQ) Level. Working in
the AFFOR or CAOC on the commander’s personal staff will provide an
expanded view of the theater and afford the opportunity to work planning for
theater wide visits, including entertainment and DV visits.
8.2.2. Distinguished Visitor. A DV is defined as: (1) Any general or flag
officer, (2) any government official with rank equivalent to a brigadier gen-
eral or higher, or (3) any foreign military officer or civilian designated a DV
by the Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force for International Affairs
(SAF/IA). At times, persons of lower rank are appointed to fill DV positions,
and may be accorded DV status; the purpose of the visit will determine if
DV status should be accorded. For example, a civic leader may be accorded
DV status. The commander determines the DV distinction on an individual
basis. The Air Force Senior Leader Management Office publishes a relative
rank list for active duty general officers and a civilian senior executive roster
with DV codes for senior civilians. Consult the most current DOD Order of
Precedence and AF Precedence List to determine current and correct prece-
dence of distinguished visitors. These lists are available from HQ
USAF/CVAP by phone at DSN 227-7621, commercial 703-697-7621, or by
email at AF/CVAP@pentagon.af.mil.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                115

8.2.3. Use of Funds. The key to efficient and appropriate funds handling is to
properly categorize guests to determine what, if any, type of funds they are
eligible to receive. It is important to note, however, that just because a group
or individual qualifies for funds, perceptions should also be considered.
What may be technically legal may be perceived as improper—always con-
sider the appearance as well as the law. Consult the applicable policy direc-
tive or instruction for the most current and complete guidance. Additionally,
since there will always be "gray areas" requiring clarification, consult with
your organization's Financial Management section or the resource managers
within SV.
8.2.4. Appropriated Funds (APFs). APFs are government funds from the
public treasury which are appropriated by act of Congress to conduct the
business of government agencies and activities. Appropriations for the DOD,
for example, provides the main financial support for carrying out the defense
and national security missions assigned to the department and its component
services. Under certain circumstances, APFs may be used for discretionary
expenditures related to the mission of command.
8.2.5. Contingency Funds. Contingency Funds, also called Official Repre-
sentation Funds (ORF), are APFs that can be spent under the commander's
authority for official representation purposes. These funds come from that
part of the appropriation reserved for "Emergencies and Extraordinary Ex-
penses." ORFs are specifically appropriated through SecDef to SecAF and
are intended to "uphold the standing and prestige of the U.S. by extending
official courtesies to certain officials and dignitaries of the U.S. and foreign
countries."
8.2.6. Other APFs. Not all discretionary expenditures require the use of con-
tingency authority. In fact, the major focus of the official representation au-
thority is to project the national image outside the military organization for
which the commander is responsible. Surprising numbers of expenditures for
similar purposes within the organization are authorized from the normal op-
erations and maintenance budget as routine appropriated fund expenditures
associated with the organization's mission. AFI 65-601, Budget Guidance
and Procedures, Volume I, Chapter 4, discusses the types of expenditures
that may be supported through the organization's normal APFs budget. When
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                   116

in doubt, or if you have questions, it is best to check with either your budget
officer, supply officer, SV officer, or legal officer.
8.2.7. Non-Appropriated Funds (NAFs) and Special Moral & Welfare Funds
(SM&W). Another source of funds frequently used to support protocol
events is SM&W funds. Appropriated funds come from the taxpayers, by
way of Congress and the appropriations process. However, NAFs represent a
portion of profits made by non-appropriated activities and base exchanges
and are frequently referred to as "troop’s money." Within the AF, base offi-
cials administer the bulk of these funds to provide for the morale, welfare,
and recreation of their personnel. There are overarching principles that gov-
ern when these funds can be used, and these principles take precedence even
if an event, on the surface, seems to qualify for SM&W funds. For example,
events must directly support the morale and welfare of military personnel,
with no discrimination as to rank or position. AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappro-
priated Funds (NAFs), Chapter 12, governs the use of NAFs and implements
Air Force Policy Directive 34-2, Managing Nonappropriated Funds. Air
Force Handbook 10-247, Volume 6, Guide to Contingency Planning: Re-
source Management, provides further guidance.
8.3. Use of Facilities. Protocol officers have no dedicated facilities assigned
in the BEAR packages. Therefore, they must rely on facility managers to
assist in finding base facilities that are available for protocol activities. Tem-
porary use of facilities may range from the use of the dining facility to host a
DV luncheon/dinner with the troops, to the use of the recreation center or
theater for a mass briefing. Planning and contact with the facility manager
should be accomplished as early as possible to alleviate a scheduling con-
flict. This also provides sufficient time to prepare the facility for the visit and
gives time to recruit assistance to help set-up if required. As with most
events, follow-up with facility managers is a must when planning use of fa-
cilities.
8.4. Further Guidance. There are many sources for protocol guidance. The
official protocol website (https://www-r.afsv.af.mil/ILV/Protocol) has an
abundance of information as well as links to every MAJCOM Protocol office
for reachback capability. The Air Force Institute of Technology offers an
introductory course to new, non-experienced protocol officers, NCOs and
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                             117

civilians. Protocol officers should develop continuity books, especially when
in a joint environment. Two useful references for Protocol officers are the
World Fact Book, which can be found on the World Wide Web at
http://www.odci.gov/cia/publications/factbook/index.html, and the State
Department’s website at http://www.state.gov/index.htm.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                118

                                  Chapter 9

                HOMELAND SECURITY OPERATIONS

9.1. Overview. The AF is prepared to project US air and space power to
counter and defeat terrorist threats at home. AF agile combat support (ACS)
also supports homeland security (HLS) operations. ACS capabilities provide
support for air protection for specified areas of the country, and provide medi-
cal and WMD support, law enforcement capabilities, as well as infrastructure
support when called upon. SV trains and equips forces to contribute to U.S.
defense, regardless of the nature of threat or whether supporting air, space, or
cyberspace operations. This chapter covers the major aspects of SV role in
HLS operations.
9.2. Command and Control (C2). Figure 9.1 and Figure 9.2 show how the
AF fits into the command and control of HLS.
Figure 9.1. Homeland Security Operations C2.




9.2.1. Chain of Command at JTF Level. The JFC determines appropriate
objectives and sets priorities for the entire joint force. In combat operations,
the JFC normally exercises command authority through designated subordi-
nate component commanders. All joint forces include Service component
commanders (e.g., a COMAFFOR) and may, at the discretion of the JFC,
also include functional component commanders. The JFC may execute op-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                 119

erations either through the Service component commanders, the functional
component commanders, or some combination thereof. The standing JTF for
civil support (JTF-CS) is normally not organized around Service compo-
nents, but rather by function. The result is a JFC supported by a series of
functional task forces such as Task Force (TF) Transportation, TF Medical,
TF Troops, and TF Aviation. In these cases, Airmen should strive for unity
of command through presentation of an appropriate AETF structure (Figure
9.2).
Figure 9.2. Notional Organizational Structure for JTF–Civil Support in
USNORTHCOM.




9.2.2. Authorization for DOD Support. Defense Support of Civil Authorities
(DSCA) is often referred to as civil support, which is DOD support provided
during and in the aftermath of domestic emergencies—such as terrorist at-
tacks or major disasters—and for designated law enforcement and other ac-
tivities. It includes military assistance for civil law enforcement operations in
very limited circumstances. However, National Guard forces operating in
State status can directly assist civil law enforcement operations. DSCA mis-
sions include, but are not limited to, supporting the Department of Justice in
preventing or defeating terrorist attacks; response to CBRNE incidents; re-
sponse to natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, and fires; support to
civilian law enforcement agencies, including counter-drug activities; and
response to civil disturbances or insurrection. In all these missions, various
federal, state, or local civilian agencies are primarily responsible for the
management of the particular incident. For HLS operations, the AF’s in-
volvement is supportive and dependent on a request to the DOD from the
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                 120

designated lead agency. Traditionally, DSCA operations were either consid-
ered crisis or consequence management. Crisis management activities were
handled by the Federal Bureau of Investigations and consequence manage-
ment by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). That distinc-
tion is now replaced with domestic incident management, a full-spectrum
perspective that sees each event as a single incident requiring an integrated
response. The next three sections describe functions that may require SV
support.
9.3. Services Role in Recovery Operations. Depending on the type, scale,
and location of a recovery operation, SV’s role may vary from advising civil
authorities to conducting airbase opening and sustainment operations. The
AF provides AETF FMs to open an airbase, provide command and control,
establish an airbase, generate the mission, and operate an airbase. These
modular and flexible capabilities can also be used to augment existing air-
field facilities during a homeland security incident. In other words, the same
tasks performed to support military operations are utilized for homeland se-
curity operations. SV planners must address short-and long-term support for
food, lodging, mortuary, and facility issues for planning, prevention and cri-
sis management. The following paragraphs briefly describe SV’ role in re-
covery operations following a homeland security incident.
9.3.1. Basic Food Service Support. SV personnel may be called upon to pro-
vide field feeding operations to support a wide range of recovery operations.
They may be called on to provide meals to a small group of first-responders
after a hazardous spill incident, or set up a full field kitchen to support thou-
sands of victims of a natural disaster. The support may be required for short-
or long-term depending upon the circumstance.
9.3.2. Basic Lodging. Depending upon the duration of operations, the same
responders and victims described in the paragraph above will most likely
require shelter during recovery operations. Accommodations may be pro-
vided by contract quarters, WRM shelters, or a combination of both. If con-
tract quarters are used, follow guidelines set forth in local operating instruc-
tions and base support plans. In the event WRM assets are used, work
closely with CE and logistics to ensure all needs are met.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              121

9.3.3. Homeland Mortuary Affairs. The typical SV support to HLS opera-
tions includes mortuary technical assistance and expertise for a mass fatality
incident (MFI). A MFI is the occurrence of multiple deaths, normally five or
more. Potential scenarios include aircraft mishaps, large vehicle mishaps,
explosions, natural disasters, terrorist activity and armed conflict. SV per-
sonnel may be responsible for mass fatality remains processing and search
and recovery operations. Installations and AF mortuaries will develop a con-
tingency plan to support peacetime mass fatality incidents. If the incident
occurs outside an AF installation and local authorities will not relinquish
jurisdiction, a plan for processing remains locally must be developed.
9.3.3.1. Fatality Search and Recovery Team (FSRT). During recovery opera-
tions, trained personnel will determine if a CBRN hazard exists. The Army,
as the Executive Agent for Mortuary Affairs, has dedicated decontamination
teams and is responsible to respond to all contamination events. These teams
are responsible for decontamination and certification of remains as decon-
taminated prior to transport out of the AOR or within CONUS. If a chemical,
biological, radiological, or nuclear (CBRN) threat exists, they may set up a
MADCP (see Chapter 6 of this TTP). AF FSRT teams may assist with the
recovery of contaminated remains.
9.3.3.1.1. The Air National Guard FSRT capability will be called upon first
in the State role (Title 32). The ANG has 10 teams (Figure 9.3) regionally-
aligned in concert with the 10 FEMA regions. As there is not a team pos-
tured in each state, the ANG teams have MOA/Us with sister states within
their regions to provide this capability.
9.3.3.1.2. The active duty AF also has 10 FSRTs postured and aligned within
the AEF construct: two teams per AEF pair (Figure 9.4). When needed, the
FSRTs “in the bucket” should be sourced before any of the other teams.
However, any team can be sourced if the circumstances warrant.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                              122

Figure 9.3. 10 FEMA Regions and ANG FSRTs.




Figure 9.4. Active Duty AEF FSRTs.




                                     LT GEN RICHARD Y. NEWTON III
                                     DCS/Personnel
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                          123

                             Attachment 1

                  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES
                AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD 2, Operations and Organization, 27 June 2006
AFDD 2-10, Homeland Operations, 21 March 2006
AFDD 2-8, Command and Control, 16 February 2001
AFH 10 247, Vol 1, Guide to Services Contingency Planning, 1 November
2003
AFH 10 247, Vol 1.1, Guide to Services Contingency Planning: Sustainment
and Quality of Life, 1 January 2005
AFH 10-222 Vol 6, BARE Base Facility Erection, 1 April 1999
AFH 10-247, Vol 4, Guide to Services Contingency Planning: Mortuary
Affairs Search and Recovery, 20 January 2006
AFH 10-247, Vol 6. Guide to Services Contingency Planning: Resource
Management, 1 July 2004
AFH 10-247 Vol 2, Guide to Services Contingency Feeding Operations, 1
November 2006
AFH 10-222 Vol 1, Guide to Bare Base Development, 1 February 2006
AFH 10-222 Vol 2, Bare Base Assets, 1 April 2006
AFI 10-204, Readiness Exercises and After-Action Reporting Program, 12
July 2002
AFI 10-214, Air Force PRIME RIBS Program, 27 February 2006
AFI 25-101, War Reserve Materiel WRM Program Guidance and Proce-
dures, 2 May 2005
AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFs), 17 June 2002
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                           124

AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, 7 January 2005
AFI 65-601, Vol 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 March 2005
AFJI 44-111, Armed Forces Medical Examiner System, 2 January 1991
AFPAM 10-219, Vol 5, Bare Base Conceptual Planning Guide, 1 June 1996
AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air & Space Expeditionary Force Pres-
ence Policy (AEFPP), 16 June 2004
AFPD 10-8, Homeland Defense and Civil Support, 7 September 2006
AFPD 34-2, Managing Nonappropriated Funds, 7 January 1994
FM 4-20-64, Mortuary Affairs Operations, 9 January 2007
JP 4-06, Mortuary Affairs in Joint Operations, 5 June 2006
Services CONOPS, 1 May 2006
Headquarters United States Air Force, Program Action Directive 06-09
SERVICES SUPPLEMENT TO THE WAR MOBILIZATION PLAN-1 (WMP-
1), August 2006
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES––Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AAR––After Action Reports
ACS––Agile Combat Support
ADR––Advance Design Refrigerator
AEF––Air and Space Expeditionary Force
AETF––Air & Space Expeditionary Task Force
AEW––Air Expeditionary Wing
AF––Air Force
AFAARS––Air Force After-Action Reporting System
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                      125

AFCAP––Air Force Contract Augmentation Program
AFCC—Air Force Component Command
AFCENT––Air Forces Central
AFCESA––Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFCHQ––Air Force Component Headquarters
AFCKSLL––Air Force Center for Knowledge Sharing Lessons Learned
AFE––Armed Forces Entertainment
AFEMS—Air Force Equipment Management System
AFEUR––Air Forces Europe
AFFOR––Air Force Forces
AFI––Air Force Instruction
AFIADL––Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning
AFIIP––Air Force Instructional Input Program
AFKOR––Air Forces Korea
AFME––Armed Forces Medical Examiner
AFNORTH––Air Forces North
AFPAC––Air Forces Pacific
AFRC––Air Force Reserve Command
AFRTS––Armed Forces Radio and Television Service
AFSC––Air Force Specialty Code
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSOF––Air Force Special Operations Forces
AFSOUTH––Air Forces South
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                    126

AFSTRAT-GS–– Air Force Strategic - Global Strike
AFSTRAT-SP–– Air Force Strategic – Space
AFSVA—Air Force Services Agency
AFSVA/CCR—Air Force Services Agency Reserve Advisor
AFSVA/SVO—Air Force Services Agency Directorate of Operations
AFSVA/SVOHF—AFSVA Directorate of Operations, Food Branch
AFSVA/SVOHL—AFSVA Directorate of Operations, Lodging Branch
AFSVA/SVOHR—AFSVA Directorate of Operations, Readiness Branch
AFSVA/SVP—AFSVA Directorate of Programs
AFSVA/SVPAF—AFSVA Directorate of Programs, Fitness and Sports
AFSVA/SVX—AFSVA Directorate of Force Management and Personnel
AFTRANS––Air Forces Transportation
AFTTP––Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
AFWUS—Air Force Worldwide UTC Summary
ALC—Air Logistics Center
ALD—Available-to-Load Date
AMC––Air Mobility Command
AME—Aircraft Movement Element/Alternate Mission Equipment
AMT—Aerial Mail Terminal
ANG––Air National Guard
AOC––Air Operations Center
AOR––Area of Responsibility
APF––Appropriated Fund
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                   127

APO—Air Post Office
APOD—Aerial Port of Debarkation
APOE—Aerial Port of Embarkation
APT—Air Passenger Terminal
ARC––Air Reserve Component
ARPC—Air Reserve Personnel Center
ART—AEF Reporting Tool
AS—Allowance Standard
ASF—Aeromedical Staging Facility
ASR—Available Supply Rate
ATO—Air Tasking Order
ATOC—Air Terminal Operations Center
ATSO—Ability to Survive and Operate
ATV––All Terrain Vehicle
B-150––Bear 150
B-550F––BEAR 550 Follow-On Set
B-550I––Bear 550 Initial Set
BAB––Babington Airtronic Burner
BB––Bare Base
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
BEAR––Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources
BOS––Base Operating Support
BPA––Blanket Purchase Agreements
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                         128

BSE—Battle Support Element
BSP—Base Support Plan
C2––Command and Control
C3––Command, Control, and Communications
C3CM—Command, Control, and Communications Countermeasures
C3I—Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence
C4—Command, Control, Communications, and Computers
C4I—Command, Control, Communications, Computer
CAOC––Combined Air Operations Center
CALM—Computer Aided Load Manifesting
CB––Chemical-Biological
CBRN––Chemical, Biological, Radioactive or Nuclear
CBRNE––Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High Yield
Explosives
CCAF––Community College of the Air Force
CCDR––Component Commander
CCO––Contingency Contracting Officer
CCP––Casualty Collection Point
CDK––Containerized Deployment Kitchen
CE––Civil Engineering/Command Element
CIN—Cargo Increment Number
CJCS––Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
CMOS—Cargo Movement Operations Center
COB––Collocated Operating Base
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                         129

COCOM—Combatant Command (Authority)
COMAFFOR––Commander of Air Force Forces
COMJTF—Commander Joint Task Force (also CJTF)
COMPES—Contingency Operations/Mobility Planning and Execution Sys-
tem
COMSEC––Communications Security
CONCAP––Construction Capabilities
CONOPS––Concept of Operations
CONPLAN––Concept Plan
CONUS––Continental United States
CS––Communications Squadron
DCAPES––Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution System
DFAC––Dining Facility
DFT––Deployed for Training
DGSC––Defense Government Supply Center
DIRLAUTH––Direct Liaison Authorized
DOD––Department Of Defense
DOX-T––Direct Operation Exchange–Tactical
DRU––Direct Reporting Unit
DSCA––Defense Support of Civilian Authorities
DSN––Defense Switching Network
DV––Distinguished Visitor
EAD—Earliest Arrival Date
ECONS––Expeditionary Contracting Squadron
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                            130

ECS––Expeditionary Combat Support
ECU––Environmental Control Units
EMEDS––Expeditionary Medical System
EOD––Explosive Ordnance Disposal
EOR—Explosive Ordnance Recognition
ESVS––Expeditionary Services Squadron
FAC—Functional Account Code/Forward Air Controller
FAM—Functional Area Manager
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FCD—Fitness Center Director
FEMA––Federal Emergency Management Agency
FF––Follow-on Flightline
FM––Force Module
FOA––Field Operating Agency
FOB––Forward Operating Base
FOC––Full Operational Capability/Follow-on Capability
FOL––Forward Operating Location
FP––Force Protection
FRN—Force Requirement Number
FSRT––Fatality Search and Recovery Team
FSU––Field Sanitation Unit
GP––General Purpose
GPC––Government Purchase Card
HN––Host Nation
HQ USAF––Headquarters United States Air Force
HST––Home Station Training
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                     131

IF––Initial Flightline
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
IO––Industrial Operations
IOC––Initial Operating Capability
ISO––International Standards Organization (e.g. ISO Container)
JANAF—Joint Army, Navy, Air Force
JANAP—Joint Army, Navy, Air Force Publication
JEPES—Joint Engineering Planning and Execution System
JFACC—Joint Force Air Component Commander
JFC––Joint Forces Commander
JMAO––Joint Mortuary Affairs Office
JMETL—Joint Mission Essential Task List
JOPES—Joint Operation Planning and Execution System
JSOTF––Joint Special Operations Task Force
JTF––Joint Task Force
LAD—Latest Arrival Date
LAN––Local Area Network
LB—Limited Base
LMR––Land-Mobile Radio
LIMFAC—Limiting Factor
LOGCAP––Logistics Civil Augmentation Program
LOGDET—Logistics Detail
LOGFOR—Logistics Force Module
LRC––Learning Resource Center/Logistics Readiness Center
MA––Mortuary Affairs
MACP––Mortuary Affairs Collection Point
MADCP––Mortuary Affairs Decontamination Collection Point
MAJCOM––Major Command
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                 132

MAJCOM-C––Major Command Component or Component MAJCOM
MAJCOM HQ––Major Command Headquarters
MB—Main Base
MCP––Mortuary Collection Point/Military Construction Plan
MEFPAK—Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging
METL—Mission Essential Task List
MFI––Mass Fatality Incident
MIPR––Military Interdependent Purchase Request
MISCAP—Mission Capability
MOB—Main Operating Base
MOPP—Mission Oriented Protective Posture
MOU––Memorandum of Understanding
MRE––Meals Ready-To-Eat
MRSP—Mobility Readiness Spares Package
MSA—Munitions Storage Area
MSG—Mission Support Group
MSS––Medium Shelter System/Mission Support Squadron
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility/Military Treatment Facility
MTW—Major Theater War
MWR—Morale, Welfare, and Recreation
NAF––Non-Appropriated Fund/Numbered Air Force
NAF-C––Numbered Air Force Component or component NAF
NAT—Not Air Transportable (Cargo)
NEO––Noncombatant Evacuation Operations
NIS––Not in Stock
OCONUS––Outside the Continental United States
OI––Operating Instruction
OPLAN—Operation Plan
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                           133

OPR––Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC––Operational Security
ORF––Official Representation Funds
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PA—Public Affairs/Probability of Arrival
PACAF––Pacific Air Forces
PADD––Person Authorized To Direct Disposition
PAO—Public Affairs Officer
PAS—Personnel Accounting Symbol
PE––Personal Effects
PERE––Person Eligible to Receive Effects
PERSCO––Personnel Support for Contingency Operations
PID—Plan Identification Designator
POD—Port of Debarkation
POE—Port of Embarkation
POL––Petroleum, Oils, and Lubricants
POPSUM––Population Summary
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
Prime BEEF—Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force
Prime RIBS—Prime Readiness in Base Services
PRU––Personnel Readiness Unit
PSC—Postal Service Center
PV––Prime Vendor
PWRM—Pre-positioned War Reserve Material
QAE––Quality Assurance Evaluator/Evaluation
QASP—Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan
QoL––Quality Of Life
RDD—Required Delivery Date
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                      134

READY—Resource Augmentation Duty
RED HORSE—Rapid Engineer Deployable Heavy Operations Repair
Squadron Engineer
RIBS––Readiness in Base Services
ROC—Readiness Operations Center/Required Operational Capability
ROE—Rules of Engagement
ROMO––Range of Military Operations
ROWPU—Reverse Osmosis Water Purification Unit
S&R––Search and Recovery
SAF/IA––Secretary of the Air Force for International Affairs
SecDef––Secretary of Defense
SF––Security Forces
SIPRNET––Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SITREP––Situation Reports
SM&W––Special Morale & Welfare Funds
SNCO––Senior Noncommissioned Officer
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training System
SOR—Statement of Requirements
SOW—Statement of Work
SPEK––Single-Pallet Expeditionary Kitchen
SSS––Small Shelter System
ST/STON—Short Ton (equal to 2,000 pounds)
SV––Services
SV SITREP––Services Situation Report
TF––Task Force
TFE––Tactical Field Exchange
TFEO––Tactical Field Exchange Officer
THR––Tray Ration Heater
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              135

TPFDD – Time-Phased Force Deployment Data
TSC––Theater Security Cooperation
UCC––Unified Component Command
UGR––Unitized Group Rations
USAF––United States Air Force
USAFE––United States Air Forces Europe
USDA––United States Department Of Agriculture
USFK––United States Forces Korea
USO––United Service Organizations
UTC––Unit Type Codes
VETCOM––Us Army Veterinary Command
WFHQ––Warfighting Headquarters
WMP––War Mobilization Plan
WRM––War Reserve Material

Terms
Air Force Contract Augmentation Program (AFCAP)—A program under
which civilian contractors/commercially available resources can be used to
fill critical base operating support functions/asset requirements that occur
during a wide range of contingency, crisis, and wartime operations. AFCAP
uses civilian contractual assistance during peacetime to locate and plan for
the acquisition of worldwide commercial resources (personnel and materiel)
assets to meet AF wartime support requirements.
Area of Responsibility (AOR)––The geographical area associated with a
combatant command within which a CCDR has authority to plan and con-
duct operations.
Bare Base––A base having minimum essential facilities to house, sustain,
and support operations to include, if required, a stabilized runway, taxiways,
and aircraft parking areas. A bare base must have a source of water that can
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                 136

be made potable. Other requirements to operate under bare base conditions
form a necessary part of the force package deployed to the bare base.
Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources (BEAR)—US Air Force systems
consisting of assets formerly known as Harvest Eagle and Harvest Falcon.
BEAR systems are designed to provide minimum essential troop cantonment
facilities (lodging, field feeding, showers, and latrines) and operational sup-
port (offices, shops, limited shop equipment, and runway matting). Units
using this equipment are expected to deploy with mobility equipment and
spares peculiar to their operation in sufficient quantities to allow self-support
until resupply is established.
BEAR 550 Follow-on Housekeeping (B-550F) Set—An additive set to the
B-550I that increases support to 1,100 people. The B-550F provides addi-
tional billeting, feeding, hygiene, power, water, environmental control and
lighting assets similar to the B-550I.
BEAR 550 Initial Housekeeping (B-550I) Set—A stand-alone set that pro-
vides a robust camp consisting of billeting, feeding, and hygiene to support
550 personnel.
BEAR Follow-on Flightline (B-FF) Set—An additive to a B-IF set and
includes limited facilities, equipment, and supplies needed to support flight
operations and maintenance needs for a second and subsequent squadrons
deployed to an austere base.
BEAR Initial Flight Line (B-IF) Set—A set consisting of facilities, equip-
ment, and supplies necessary to establish and support aircraft flight-related
operations and maintenance activities for an initial aircraft squadron de-
ployed at a bare base location.
C-Day—The unnamed day on which a deployment operation commences or
is to commence. The deployment may be movement of troops, cargo,
weapon systems, or a combination of these elements utilizing any or all
types of transport. The letter "C" will be the only one used to denote the
above. The highest command or headquarters responsible for coordinating
the planning will specify the exact meaning of C-Day within the aforemen-
tioned definition. The command or headquarters directly responsible for the
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               137

execution of the operation, if other than the one coordinating the planning,
will do so in light of the meaning specified by the highest command or head-
quarters coordinating the planning.
Combatant Command (command authority)––Nontransferable command
authority established by Title 10 (“Armed Forces”), United States Code, sec-
tion 164, exercised only by commanders of unified or specified combatant
commands unless otherwise directed by the President or the SecDef. Com-
batant command (command authority) cannot be delegated and is the author-
ity of a CCDR to perform those functions of command over assigned forces
involving organizing and employing commands and forces, assigning tasks,
designating objectives, and giving authoritative direction over all aspects of
military operations, joint training, and logistics necessary to accomplish the
missions assigned to the command. Combatant command (command author-
ity) should be exercised through the commanders of subordinate organiza-
tions. Normally this authority is exercised through subordinate joint force
commanders and Service and/or functional component commanders. Com-
batant command (command authority) provides full authority to organize
and employ commands and forces as the CCDR considers necessary to ac-
complish assigned missions. Operational control is inherent in combatant
command (command authority).
Combatant Commander (CCDR)––A commander of one of the unified or
specified combatant commands established by the President. The CCDR
commands, the command relationship the gaining commander will exercise
(and the losing commander will relinquish) over these forces must be speci-
fied by the SecDef. Operational control is the authority to perform those
functions of command over subordinate forces involving organizing and
employing commands and forces, assigning tasks, designating objectives,
and giving authoritative direction necessary to accomplish the mission. Op-
erational control includes authoritative direction over all aspects of military
operations and joint training necessary to accomplish missions assigned to
the command. Operational control should be exercised through the com-
manders of subordinate organizations. Normally this authority is exercised
through subordinate joint force commanders and Service and/or functional
component commanders. Operational control normally provides full author-
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                 138

ity to organize commands and forces and to employ those forces as the
commander in operational control considers necessary to accomplish as-
signed missions; it does not, in and of itself, include authoritative direction
for logistics or matters of administration, discipline, internal organization, or
unit training. Also called Operational Command.
Command and Control––The exercise of authority and direction by a prop-
erly designated commander over assigned and attached forces in the accom-
plishment of the mission. Command and control functions are performed
through an arrangement of personnel, equipment, communications, facilities,
and procedures employed by a commander in planning, directing, coordinat-
ing, and controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mis-
sion.
Force Beddown––The provision of expedient facilities for troop support to
provide a platform for the projection of force. These facilities may include
modular or kit-type substitutes.
Homeland Defense––The protection of U.S. territory, sovereignty, domestic
population, and critical infrastructure against external threats and aggression.
Homeland Security––A concerted national effort to prevent terrorist attacks
within the United States, reduce America’s vulnerability to terrorism, and
minimize the damage and recover from attacks that do occur.
Limiting Factor––A factor or condition that, either temporarily or perma-
nently, impedes mission accomplishment. Illustrative examples are transpor-
tation network deficiencies, lack of in-place facilities, and malpositioned
forces or materiel, extreme climatic conditions, distance, transit or overflight
rights, political conditions, etc.
Operational Rations—Specially packaged, processed, or prepared food for
operational or emergency conditions, as identified in Food Service Catalog
8900 Stock Listing (FSC 8900 SL). Packaged operational rations, designed
for individual use in the field, are sometimes enhanced with beverages and
other food items.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              139

Person Authorized Direct Disposition (PADD)—In accordance with Fed-
eral law the PADD is the person authorized to direct disposition of the re-
mains.
Personal Effects (PE)—Personal effects are broadly defined as any personal
item, organizational clothing or equipment physically located on the re-
mains. Personal effects shipped with the remains or directly to the authorized
recipient are not to be treated in the same manner as personal property. Per-
sonal property is disposed of by the SCO and usually shipped later.
Prime Vendor (PV)—A contracting process that provides commercial
products to regionally grouped military and federal customers from commer-
cial distributors using electronic commerce. Customers typically receive
materiel delivery through the vendor’s commercial distribution system.
Quality Assurance Evaluator (QAE)—Representative of the contracting
officer who normally performs surveillance of the contract.
Reachback— The process of obtaining products, services, and applications,
or forces, or equipment, or material from organizations that are not forward
deployed.
Statement of Work (SOW)—A document that accurately describes the es-
sential and technical requirements for services, including the standards used
to determine whether the requirements have been met.
Swift BEAR 150 Personnel Housekeeping (B-150) Set— The B-150 set
supports up to 150 personnel in the Open-the-Base FM. The set consists of
small shelters with environmental control, tactical power generators, limited
hygiene facilities, camp lighting equipment and MRE rations and bottled
water.
Time-Phased Force Deployment Data (TPFDD). The data base portion of
an operation plan; it contains time-phased force data, non-unit-related cargo
and personnel data, and movement data for the operation plan, including:
    1. In-place units.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                140

    2. Units to be deployed to support the OPLAN with a priority indi-
    cating the desired sequence for their arrival at the port of debarka-
    tion.
    3. Routing of forces to be deployed.
    4. Movement data associated with deploying forces.
    5. Estimates of non-unit-related cargo and personnel movements to
    be conducted concurrently with the deployment of forces.
    6. Estimate of transportation requirements that must be fulfilled by
    common-user lift resources as well as those requirements that can
    be fulfilled by assigned or attached transportation resources. (Joint
    Pub 1-02)
Unitized Group Ration (UGR)––UGRs (also called UGR-H&S) uses heat
and serve shelf-stable tray entrees while the UGR A-Ration (UGR-A) uses
frozen entrees. Both versions are integrated with brand-name commercial
items to form a complete meal.
Unit Type Code (UTC)—A Joint Chiefs of Staff developed and assigned
code, consisting of five characters that uniquely identify a “type unit.” Also
called UTC.
War Reserve Materiel (WRM)—Materiel required to augment peacetime
assets to support wartime activities reflected in HQ USAF war and mobiliza-
tion plans until the industrial base can meet wartime demands. Also called
WRM.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                             141

                              Attachment 2

                   CONTRACT CONSIDERATIONS

Table A2.1. Contract Considerations.
#                                  Consideration
1   Will the contractors live on or off base?
    a. If they live on base, can the base support them?
    b. If living off base, can they get on base during FP condition Delta?
2   What are their nationalities and does it bar them access to the base?
    (depending on location, certain host countries have stringent access
    rules for contractors)
4   Will contractors be required access passes? Who’s going to get them?
    Will there be any delays due to access passes?
5   What is Delta Mitigation Plan if contractors are not allowed on base?
    What mission-critical operations will continue to function?
    What services provided by mission-critical operations will be reduced?
    What are the subsistence inventory levels and how long will they last?
    What are the other essential supply levels and how long will they last?
6   What is the plan if Prime Vendor (PV), supply, or laundry delivery
    truck is denied access to the base?
    (Contact the MAJCOM-C if you need rations and is unable to get them
    from your PV.)
7   Do you have access to an interpreter?

Note: Every unit that relies on contract support should have an effective
mitigation plan in place to ensure continuation of essential operations if
Force Protection conditions prevent contractors from accessing the base. The
same level of service will not be sustainable, and a reduction of service
should be expected until FP conditions are relaxed.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                       142

                                   Attachment 3

                  RATION PLANNING/POPULATION

Table A3.1. Ration planning factors for: MRE, UGR, A-Rations.
           Meals        Case or       Weight                            Weight per
                                                      Skids per
 Type     per Case      Module         per                                 463L
                                                     463L pallet
         or Module      Per Skid       Skid                               pallet*
                                                   8 (double stack)      9139 lbs
 MRE         12           48         1098 lbs
                                                   6 (double stack)*     6943 lbs
UGR           50           8         1110 lbs**    6 (double stack)      7015 lbs
*Used for C-130 aircraft
**Average weight for UGRs. Check with individual weights & cube attachment for
specific meal. Includes 290 lbs for 463L pallet & 65 lbs for netting (355 lbs)
     Short Ton = 2000 lbs, Long Ton = 2240 lbs, Metric Ton = 2204.62 lbs

Table A3.2. Example of Rations Supply Chain for Iraq.

                          Rations Supply Chain for Iraq
  Average In-Transit; CONUS to CENTCOM AOR                         63 Days
  Operating Level at Subsistence Prime Vendor (SPV)                30 Days
  Safety Level at SPV                                              45 Days
  In-Transit from Public Warehouse Company to Iraq Zone
                                                                   11 Days (Avg)
  (IZ)
  Local Stocks On Hand (Dining Facility Storage)                   7 Days (Avg)
  General Stock Level                                            5 Days
  Direct Stock Level                                               3 Days
  Supply Chain                                                     164 Days
  NOTE: For IZ, constant 26 days of support in IZ; combination of SPV in-
  transit, GS, DS, and local DFAC. For the Combined Joint Operations Area,
  SPV to commence Dec ’05. Will maintain 45 day safety level with a 30-day
  operating level. This allows rotation of stocks without impacting ability to
  maintain support (if conditions go "back"). Eight DOS of GS and DS take 150
  days to consume under normal conditions.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                 143



Table A3.3. Storage––Dry and Refrigerated.
                  Storage Requirements––Dry and Refrigerated
Dry Storage                             Three cu ft/per person. (Example: For an
                                        8,000 POPSUM = 24,000 cu ft or 679 cu
                                        meters. Plan for 2 meter rack height =
                                        339 sq meters. Add 20% circulation =
                                        407 sq meters).
Cold Storage                            Seven cu ft/per person. (Example: for an
                                        8,000 POPSUM = 56,000 cu ft or 1,585
                                        cu meters. Plan for 2 meter rack height =
                                        792 sq meters. Add 20% circulation =
                                        950 sq meters).
Chill/Produce/Thaw box                  Minimum of 600 cu ft or 50% of the
                                        refrigeration planning factor for the
                                        mean POPSUM if the installation does
                                        not have a rations breakdown warehouse.
Freeze box                              Minimum of 600 cu ft or 50% of the
                                        refrigeration planning factor for the
                                        mean POPSUM.
Rear loading dock                       Minimum of 15 ft wide by 30 ft long.
Dry goods storage                       Minimum of 600 cu ft or 100% of the
                                        dry storage planning factor for the mean
                                        POPSUM if the installation does not
                                        have a rations breakdown warehouse.
Miscellaneous storage space             12 ft wide by 20 ft long provided for
                                        cleaning supplies and expendable items.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                144


                               Attachment 4

           RATION STORAGE LIFE VS. TEMPERATURE

A4.1. Protect rations. Rations need to be protected from excessive heat.
MREs can quickly lose shelf life when exposed to the high temperatures
common in Southwest Asia and Africa (Figure A4.1).
Figure A4.1. Rations Storage Life vs. Temperature.




A4.2. Inspect rations. UGR H&S and UGR-A rations have a shelf life of 18
months and 3-6 months (for the perishable portion of UGR-A) respectively
at 80º F from the date of packing. Shelf life will degrade with temperature.
General guidance is to check the date of the packaging and also check the
condition of the packaging. Inspect for insect activity monthly during the hot
months, and quarterly during the winter/cooler months. Conduct closed
package condition of container inspections (cans, boxes, etc.). The "limiting
items" for this ration are the infestibles—those items in commercial pack-
ages. Even the #10 cans of vegetables and fruits can be considered a limiting
item.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                                                         145


                                                        Attachment 5

                                MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS MATRIX

Table A5.1. Manpower Requirements Matrix (Initial Guideline).
                                                        Beddown Population Spread
                                 0     551 1101 1651 2201 2751 3301 3851 4401 4951 5501 6051 6601 7151
                                 to     to  to   to   to   to   to   to   to   to   to   to   to   to
                                550   1100 1650 2200 2750 3300 3850 4400 4950 5500 6050 6600 7150 7700
                       RF        1     2     2     2      2     2     2     2     2     2     2     2     2     2
 Equipment
  UTCs/PV




                       RG        1     1     1     1      1     1     1     1     1     1     1     1     1     1
                  Fit/Rec-
                                 1     1     1     1      2     2     2     2     3     3     3     3     4     4
               Prime Ven
                      C21        2     5     5     6      6     7     7     7     7     7     7     7     7     7

                    SPEK         1     2     2     2      2     2     2     2     2     2     2     2     2     2
  Kitchens2




                     CDK         1     2     3     3      3     3     3     3     3     3     3     3     3     3

                 BEAR-1*         1     1     1     1      1     1     1     1     1     1     1     1     1     1

                BEAR-F**               1     2     3      4     5     6     7     8     9    10    11    12    13
 Lodging




                    Surge       46    92    138   183    229   275   321   367   413   458   504   550   596   642
  Tents3




                  Sustain       69    138   206   275    344   413   481   550   619   688   756   825   894   963
                            4
                Mortuary         1     1     1     1      1     2     2     2     2     2     2     3     3     3
 Laundry5




                      Self       1     1     2     2      3     3     4     4     5     5     6     6     7     7

                      Org        0     1     1     1      1     2     2     2     2     3     3     3     3     4

                  Fitness6       1     1     2     2      3     3     4     4     5     5     6     6     7     7

              Recreation7        1     1     2     2      3     3     4     4     5     5     6     6     7     7

               Exchange8         1     1     2     2      3     3     4     4     5     5     6     6     7     7
                            9
                Logistics        1     1     1     2      2     2     2     2     2     2     2     3     3     3
                Mortuary-
                                             1     1      1     1     1     1     1     1     1     1     1     1
                1.5T Cov
                 Rations-
                                       1     1     1      1     1     1     1     2     2     2     2     2     2
                  450 CF
  Vehicles




                  10k AT
                                       1     1     1      1     2     2     2     2     2     3     3     3     3
                   Forklift
                4K Forklift                               1     1     1     1     1     2     2     2     2     2
              CC Supplies
                                       1     1     2      2     2     2     2     3     3     3     3     3     3
                     P/U
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                      146




NOTES:
* BEAR-I = BEAR 550 Initial housekeeping = B-550I
** BEAR-F = BEAR 550 Follow-on housekeeping = B-550F

Use the following explanations or system planning factors with the correspond-
ing A.5.1. Matrix superscripted designations. Substitute closest sized TEMPER/
Small Shelter System (SSS) tent if the designated system is not available.
1. C2 = SV Command and Control
2. Kitchens: SPEK is initial kitchen, supports up to 550 population for 2 hot meals
per day. One SPEK, one BEAR 550I or 550F required to sustain population of
1,100; one CDK = one BEAR 550I
3. Lodging Surge = 12 Per Tent Sustainment = 8 Per Tent
4. Mortuary = Small Shelter System (SSS)
5. Laundry: Self-Help = 1,100 Organizational = 2,200 + 1 Medium Shelter System
(MSS) Per Laundry
6. Fitness = Medium Shelter System (MSS)
7. Recreation = Medium Shelter System (MSS)
8. Exchange = Medium Shelter System (MSS)
9. Logistics = Small System Shelter (SSS)
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                 147


                              Attachment 6

                   SERVICES PLANNING FACTORS

Table A6.1. Planning Factors.
Planning Factors                      Details/Comments
                           Beddown Planning
AETF Force          1. Open the Airbase.
Modules              (a) Deploys on or before C-Day
                     (b) IOC within 24 hours of arrival
                     (c) Protects base, plans reception and beddown, setup
                    comm, prepare airfield, work host nation issues.

                    2. Command and Control.
                     (a) Deploys on or after C-Day
                     (b) IOC within 16 hours of arrival
                     (c) Sets up expeditionary wing or group C2

                    3. Establish the Airbase.
                     (a) Deploys between C+1 and C+6
                     (b) IOC within four days of arrival
                     (c) Round-the-clock operations and life-sustaining
                    support/infrastructure (e.g. lodging, food service and
                    hygiene), and mortuary and protocol.

                    4. Generate the Mission.
                     (a) Begins on or after C+2
                     (b) Overlaps with previous modules
                     (c) IOC about 4 days after Open the Airbase or within
                    two days if required.
                     (d) Primary weapon systems (fighters, bombers, etc.)
                    weapon operators, and maintainers.
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               148


Planning Factors                    Details/Comments
                   5. Operate the Airbase.
                    (a) Deploys on or after C+2
                    (b) IOC on or before C+14
                    (c) Full IOC and sustainment for up to 30 days (intro-
                   duces QoL, fitness and recreation activities).

                   6. Robust the Airbase.
                    (a) Deploys 30 days after base is established
                    (b) Strengthens previous modules

                                 Logistics
BEAR ASSETS        1. BEAR 150 Housekeeping Set (UTC XFB1A).
                   Weighs 44 tons; take 17.5 pallets (one C-17) for airlift.
                   Major components:
                    (a) 16 SSS for billeting
                    (b) 16 ECUs
                    (c) 1 Latrine
                    (d) 1 10K all-terrain forklift
                    (e) 4 electrical power generators
                   2. BEAR 550I Housekeeping Set (UTC XFB1H).
                   Weighs 229 tons; takes 78 pallet positions (six C-17s).
                   Major components:
                    (a) 48 SSS for billeting
                    (b) 1 SSS for mortuary
                    (c) 1 SSS (for tactical exchange if needed)
                    (d) 2 – 10K fuel bladder
                    (e) 1 SPEK
                    (f) 1 MSS (feeding facility)
                    (g) 3 ADR-300
                    (h) 1 (550 person) water distribution system
                    (i) 2 - 20K gallon water bladder
                    (j) 72 ECU
                    (k) 7 electrical power generators (2.7kW per person)
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                             149


Planning Factors                     Details/Comments
                     (l) Playbook Options: BEAR 550I kitchen, ROWPU,
                   Latrine Pumper, Water Source Run (pumps, hose, fit-
                   tings)
                   3. BEAR 550F Housekeeping Set (UTC XFBBF).
                   Weighs 188 tons; 61 pallet positions (five C-17s). Ma-
                   jor components:
                    (a) 48 SSS for billeting
                    (b) 1 - 10K gallon fuel bladder
                    (c) 2 - M-80 water heater
                    (d) 60 ECU
                    (e) 6 electrical power generator
                    (f) Same Playbook options as BEAR 550I/F kitchens.
                   4. BEAR Industrial Ops Set (UTC XFBRC). Weighs
                   267 tons; takes 81.5 pallet positions (seven C-17s).
                   Major components:
                    (a) 3 MSS
                    (b) 5 Dome Shelters (8,000 sq ft)
                    (c) 3 Dome Shelters (4,000 sq ft)
                    (d) 22 SSS
                    (e) 2 - 10K gallon fuel bladder
                    (f) 1 ADR-300
                    (g) 36 ECUs
                    (h) 2 electrical power generator
                   5. BEAR Initial Flightline Set (UTC XFBIF).
                   Weighs 248 tons; 92 pallet positions (seven C-17s).
                   Major components:
                    (a) 15 MSS
                    (b) 2 Dome Shelter (8,000 sq ft)
                    (c) 4 Dome Shelter (4,000 sq ft)
                    (d) 22 SSS
                    (e) 2 electrical power generator
                    (f) 60 ECU
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                150


Planning Factors                     Details/Comments
                   6. BEAR Follow-on Flightline Set (UTC XFBFF).
                   Weighs 39 tons and requires 13 pallets positions (2 C-
                   17s). Major components:
                    (a) 1 Aircraft Hangar
                    (b) 4 MSS
                    (c) 3 SSS
                    (d) 12 ECU
                   7. 550I/F Kitchens (UTC XFBK4) Playbook option.
                   Weighs 35 tons; 13 pallet positions.
                   8. Self-Help Laundry (UTC XFBLS). Playbook op-
                   tion of 10 washers/20 dryers. Weighs 18 tons; five pal-
                   lets.
                              Food Services
Kitchens           1. SPEK (BEAR – UTC XFB1H; Homestation - UTC
                   LWRRF). Major characteristics:
                     (a) Single cargo pallet position to airlift
                     (b) UGRs for 550 people per meal
                     (c) 8 troops assemble & begin feeding within 4 hours
                     (d) Ration Heater from -20 degrees to 120 degrees F
                     (e) Needs space of 25 feet x 30 feet.
                     (f) No seating/dining tables (BEAR SPEK includes a
                   California Medium Shelter)
                     (g) Needs potable water, diesel, water/waste disposal
                   2. BEAR 550 Kitchen (UTC XFBK4). Major charac-
                   teristics:
                     (a) Playbook option in BEAR 550I and 550F
                     (b) Serves 550 personnel
                     (c) 7 TEMPER sections for dining; 10 sections for
                   kitchen; 3 sections for mess kit laundry
                     (d) 20’ x 56’ dining area; 20’ x 80’ kitchen area
                     (e) 3 ADR-300 reefers
                     (f) Two 550 kitchens easily configured to feed 1,100;
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                             151


Planning Factors                    Details/Comments
                   300’ x 300’ when combined
                   3. CDK (UTC XFBK5). Major characteristics:
                    (a) 8’ x 8’ ISO container
                    (b) 500 meals twice a day
                    (c) 150kW diesel generator
                    (d) 250-gallon water bladder
                        Ration Planning Factors
                   1. MREs (UTC LWMRE)
                    (a) 12 meals per case
                    (b) Weight per case – 22 lbs
                    (c) Cube per case – 1.02 cubic feet (cf)
                    (d) Cases per skid pallet – 48
                    (e) Cube per skid pallet – 56.1 cf
                    (f) Weight per skid pallet – 1,056 + 42 lbs tare =
                   1,098
                    (f) Skid pallets per 20 ft van – 16
                    (h) Skid pallets per 40 ft van – 36
                    (i) Skid pallets per 463L pallet – 6 on C-130
                    (j) Skid pallets per 463L pallet – 8 on C-17/C-5
                    (j) Weight of 463L pallet empty – 300 lbs
                    (k) Weight of 463L pallet w/6 skid pallets of MREs –
                   6,552 lbs
                   2. UGR Heat and Serve (UTC LWUGR)
                    (a) Meals per skid pallet = 400 (50 per module x 8
                   modules per skid)
                    (b) Weight per skid = 1,1100 lbs
                    (c) Skids per 463L pallet = 6 (double stack)
                   (40”x48”x43”)
                    (e) Meals per 463L pallet = 2,400
                    (e) Weight per 463L pallet = 6,960 lbs
                   3. Bottled Water (UTC LWWTR)
                     (a.) 24 half-liter bottles per case
                     (b.) 45 cases per skid – 1080 bottles
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              152


Planning Factors                       Details/Comments
                     (c.) 4 skids per 436L pallet – 4320 bottles
                     (d.) ½ liter bottles need to be specified when ordering
                   to DSCP
                               Water Usage
                   1. Using BEAR mobile water distribution assets
                   (Note: these are the amounts that CE will produce)
                    Potable Water (18 gal/person/day) using BEAR
                     (a) Drinking – 4.0
                     (b) Personal Hygiene – 3.0
                     (c) Shower – 5.0
                     (d) Food Preparation – 4.0
                     (e) Hospital – 1.0
                     (f) Heat Treatment – 1.0
                    Nonpotable Water (9 gal/person/day)
                     (a) Laundry – 2.0
                     (b) Construction – 2.0
                     (c) Graves Registration – 0.5
                     (d) Vehicle Operations – 0.5
                     (e) Aircraft Operations – 2.0
                     (f) Firefighting – 2.0
                    Loss Factor – 10% (3.0)
                    Total: 30.0 gallons per person per day
                   2. Using a fixed water treatment plant:
                    Potable Water (30 gal/person/day) using permanent
                   plant
                     (a) Drinking - 4.0
                     (b) Personal Hygiene – 4.0
                     (c) Shower – 15.0
                     (d) Food Preparation – 5.0
                     (e) Hospital – 1.0
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                               153


Planning Factors                    Details/Comments
                     (f) Heat Treatment – 1.0
                    Nonpotable Water (permanent plant) 25 gal (per-
                   son/day)
                     (a) Laundry – 14.0
                     (b) Construction – 2.0
                     (c) Graves Registration – 0.2
                     (d) Vehicle Operations – 1.8
                     (e) Aircraft Operations – 3.0
                     (f) Firefighting – 4.0
                    Loss Factor – 10% (5.0)
                    Total: 60.0 gallons per person per day
                   3. Services unique factors:
                    (a) Field kitchens = 3.3 gal/person/day
                    (b) Kitchen cleaning = 2.35 gallons pppd
                    (c) Kitchen beverages = 0.5 gallons pppd
                    (d) Kitchen ice = 0.55 gallons water pppd
                    (e) MREs = .06 gallons per meal
                   4. Minimum Water Heating Temperatures
                    (a) Dishwashing temperature: 140 degrees Fahrenheit
                    (b) Rinse temperature: 160 degrees Fahrenheit
                    (c) Disinfect: 171 degrees Fahrenheit
                    (d) Mess kit pre dip: 171 degrees Fahrenheit
                   5. Ice Requirements (by base population)
                    (a) 550 personnel = 2,420 lbs per day
                    (b) 1,100 personnel = 4,840 lbs per day
                    (c) 2,200 personnel = 9,680 lbs per day
                    (d) 3,300 personnel = 14,520 lbs per day
                          Lodging Operations
                   1. Site Preparation for Shelter.
                    (a) Slope of terrain is < 18” over entire floor plan
                    (b) Area flat, high, dry, good drainage
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              154


Planning Factors                      Details/Comments
                    (c) Away from traffic, noise, offensive smells, and
                   intense security lighting?
                    (d) Accessible to foot, delivery, and emergency traffic
                    (e) Meets THREATCON requirements
                    (f) Latrine and shower/shave located nearby (but
                   downwind from quarters and feeding facilities)
                    (g) Close to potable water source
                    (h) Adequate for future expansion
                    (i) Adequate for conversion to permanent lodging
                   2. Lodging Assignments.
                    (a) Initial assignment - 12 personnel per tent
                    (b) 8 personnel per tent after FOC or sustainment
                   People per Tent     Sq Ft per Person
                        12              ~55 (normal)
                         8             80 (flight crews, for health condi-
                                        tions, theater directed such as for
                                        storage of additional equipment)
                        20              40 (very short term, such as Open
                                        the Airbase/emergency situations
                   3. Potential Lodging Breakouts:
                       (a) Flight crews (by type of aircraft, expected num-
                       ber of aircraft, and crew numbers)
                       (b) Officer and Senior Officers (SNCOs)
                       (c) Enlisted and SNCOs
                       (d) Men and women
                       (e) Civilians
                       (f) Foreign military/visitors
                       (g) Transient and permanent personnel
                       (h) Special shift crews (example: firefighters)
                       (i) Special mission/VIP requiring higher security
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                 155


Planning Factors                       Details/Comments
                            Laundry Operations
                    1. Personal laundry - 17 lbs per person per week
                    2. Medical patients – 32 lbs pppw
                    3. Medical personnel - 32 lbs pppw
                    4. Organizational bulk - 10 lbs pppw
                    5. Self-Help – 10 washers/20 dryers per 1,100 person-
                    nel
                   Fitness and Recreation Operations
1. Recreation,      1. Equipment
Fitness, LRC and      (a) Cardiovascular equipment: 2.5 pieces per 100
NAF resale          people (e.g. upright stationary cycles, recumbent sta-
                    tionary cycles, stair steppers, and treadmills)
                         (1) Computerized feedback of heart rate
                         (2) Calories burned
                         (3) Time
                         (4) Preprogrammed routine options

                    (b) Strength training equipment: 2.0 pieces per 100
                   people (e.g. free weights or selectorized equipment) to
                   exercise each of the following muscle groups
                      (1) Quadriceps (leg extension)
                      (2) Hamstrings (leg curl)
                      (3) Pectorals (flat/incline/decline bench)
                      (4) Latissimis Dorsi (high pull)
                      (5) Biceps (curl)
                      (6) Triceps (tricep extension)
                     (c) Ancillary equipment for:
                        (1) Abdominal (crunch)
                        (2) Erector spine (back extension)
                        (3) Gastronomies (calf raise)
                        (4) Deltoids (front, side, back shoulder)
                   2. Sustainability (spare parts/maintenance) is crucial
                   and must be considered with the minimum number of
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                                156


Planning Factors                      Details/Comments
                   strength training equipment pieces.
                      LRC and Library Operations
                   1. Monthly Paperback Books/Periodical Kits (by
                   base population).

                   Paperback Kit A = 15 titles (50% fiction/50% nonfic)
                   Paperback Kit B = 15 titles (50% fiction/50% nonfic)
                   Paperback Kit C = 10 titles (best sellers)
                     a. Paperback Kit
                       (1) 1-50 adults = 1 C kit (10 titles)
                       (2) 51-100 adults = 1 C+ A or B kit (25 titles)
                       (3) 101-200 adults = 1 C+A+B kit (40 titles)
                       (4) Each additional 100 adults = 10-15 additional
                   titles
                    b. Periodicals Kit. The following titles are included
                   in the kit: Air Force Times, Newsweek, PC Magazine,
                   People, Sports Illustrated, US News & World Report.

                     (1) 1-100 adults = 1 kit (six titles)
                     (2) 101-200 adults = 2 kits (2 copies of six titles)
                     (3) 201-300 adults = 3 kits (3 copies of 6 titles)
                     (4) 301+ adults = 1 kit for each additional 100
                   2. Multimedia.
                    (a) Video or DVDs - 20 per 100 people
                    (b) Music CDs - 10 per 100 people
                    (c) Core Reference for Education Support – 22 Titles
                         Mortuary Operations
                   1. Mortuary Affairs.
                   Storage Temp for Remains      Maximum Storage Time
                    70 degrees +                   1 day or less
                    60-70 degrees                  1 to 3 days
AFTTP 3-34.1 1 November 2007                                              157


Planning Factors                     Details/Comments
                    40-45 degrees                3 to 6 days
                   2. Facilities Required by population
                    (a) 550 – 1 SSS
                    (b) 1,100 – 2 SSS
                    (c) 2,200 – 3 SSS
                    (d) 3,300 – 4 SSS
                   3. Ice Requirement (when mechanical refrigeration not
                   available) = 1.7 lbs pppd (or 0.2 gallons of water pppd)
