BY ORDER OF THE                                  AIR FORCE TACTICS, TECHNIQUES, AND
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                         PROCEDURES 3-42.6

                                                                                         9 Jan 2012

                                                                          Tactical Doctrine
                                                              USAF MEDICAL SUPPORT FOR
                                                             SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES
ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the e-Publishing website at http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil
RELEASIBILITY: There are no restrictions on the release of this publication

OPR: AFSOC/SGX                                                               Certified by: AF/SG3X
Supersedes AFTTP 3-42.6, 15 Apr 05                                            (Col Tracy A. Tenney)
                                                                                           Pages: 57

SUMMARY OF CHANGES: This publication has been significantly revised and must be
completely reviewed. This revision updates and clarifies information throughout the document
including roles, responsibilities, and relationships at all levels. It updates United States Special
Operations Command (USSOCOM) special operations forces (SOF) operational priorities and
core tasks and revises the Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) medical UTC
narratives. It expands and clarifies medical doctrine and policy as applied to operational
employment of AFSOC medical assets at home station and deployed. It expands the medical
logistics, operational planning, and communications sections.

PURPOSE: The Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-42 series of
publications is the primary reference for medical combat support capability. This document,
AFTTP 3-42.6, provides an overview of special operations (SO) and the United States Air Force
(USAF) medical tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP) that support all special operations
forces (SOF) and missions. It describes the organization, capabilities, planning, logistics,
training, and operations of the Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) Medical
Forces. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF IMT 847 through the appropriate
chain of command and parent Major Command (MAJCOM).

APPLICATION: This publication applies to all Air Force military and civilian personnel
including Air Reserve Components (ARC). This document is authoritative but not directive.

SCOPE: Special operations missions are conducted by specially organized, trained and
equipped military forces to achieve military, political, economic or psychological objectives by
unconventional means in hostile, denied, or politically sensitive areas. Whether operating from a
main operating base (MOB), intermediate staging base (ISB), forward staging base (FSB),
forward operating base (FOB), fire base (FB) or a combat outpost (COP), AFSOC medical assets

                                                                                                       1
provide medical Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS) and casualty evacuation (CASEVAC)
during operational missions for Air Force Special Operations Forces (AFSOF) and other SOF.
AFSOC medical teams and designated line units support SOF by providing both mission
operations support as well as SOF base operations support. These capabilities include initial,
trauma stabilization, ongoing combat trauma care including surgical capability and CASEVAC,
limited patient holding for post-operative or seriously ill patients awaiting transport, as well as
more routine preventive and acute medical care for deployed SOF personnel.




                                                                                                      2
                                    Table of Contents

Chapter 1 – SOF MISSION, OPERATIONAL PRIORITIES AND CORE TASKS
1.1. Mission                                                                   5
1.2. USSOCOM Priorities                                                        5
1.3. SOF Truths                                                                5
1.4. SOF Core Activities                                                       5
1.5. AFSOC Mission.                                                            6
1.6. SOF Operational Environment and Medical Support Implications.             7
1.7. AFSOC Medical Mission Statement.                                          7

Chapter 2 – ORGANIZATIONS, ROLES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES
2.1. United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM)                       10
2.2. Air Force Special Operations (AFSOC)                                     11
2.3. AFSOC Medical Preparedness and Force Protection                          12
2.4. AFSOC Medical System.                                                    14
2.5. Irregular Warfare/Medical Stability Operations (IW/MSO)                  23
2.6. Medical Foreign Internal Defense (FID)/Combat Aviation Advisors (CAA)    24

Chapter 3 –COMMAND, CONTROL, AND COMMUNICATION
3.1. Lines of Communication (LOC).                                            25
3.2. Joint Operations Command and Control (C2) Requirements                   25
3.3. AFSOC UTC Assignment                                                     26
3.4. Medical Command and Control                                              26
3.5. Concept of Medical Oversight                                             27

Chapter 4 – EMPLOYMENT OF MEDICAL SUPPORT FOR SOF
4.1. Deployment Concept                                                       30
4.2. Advantages                                                               31
4.3. Three Core Concepts of AFSOC Medicine in the Battlespace                 31
4.4. Casualty and Disease Management in SOF Operations                        32
4.5. Casualty Movement                                                        35

Chapter 5 – SOF OPERATIONAL MEDICAL PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS
5.1. Comprehensive Medical Planning                                           37
5.2. AFSOC Interface with Medical Contingency Ground Support Systems          37
5.3. Interface with Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) System                        38
5.4. Mission Planning                                                         39

Chapter 6 – MEDICAL LOGISTICS AND WAR RESERVE MATERIAL (WRM)
6.1. Medical Logistics Support for Special Operations UTCs and Medical WRM.   41
6.2. Medical Supplies and Equipment Operations.                               42
6.3. Integration.                                                             44
6.4. Ground Transportation Consideration.                                     44
6.5. Additional support.                                                      45




                                                                                   3
Chapter 7 – TRAINING
7.1. Objective                                              46
7.2. Responsibilities                                       46
7.3. Medical Training Requirements                          46
7.4. Credentials                                            47
7.5. Recruitment                                            47

Chapter 8 – COMMUNICATIONS
8.1. Medical Communications                                 48
8.2. Intra-team Communications                              48
8.3. Line-of-sight Communications                           48
8.4. Beyond Line-of-sight Communications                    48
8.5. Internet Access                                        48

Attachment 1 –GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

       References                                           49
       Abbreviations and Acronyms                           49
       Terms                                                55

Attachment 2 – AFSOC AE PLANNING REQUIREMENTS               57




                                                                  4
                                            Chapter 1

           SOF MISSION, OPERATIONAL PRIORITIES AND CORE TASKS

1.1. Mission. USSOCOM’s mission is to provide fully capable and enabled special operations
forces (SOF) to defend the Nation’s interests in an environment characterized by irregular
warfare.

1.2. USSOCOM Priorities.

      Deter, Disrupt & Defeat Terrorist Threats
      Develop & Support Our People & Families
      Sustain & Modernize the Force

1.3. SOF TRUTHS
     Humans Are More Important Than Hardware
     SOF Cannot Be Mass Produced
     Competent SOF Cannot Be Created After Emergencies Occur
     Quality Is Better Than Quantity
     Most Special Operations Require non-SOF Assistance

1.4. SOF Core Activities. America’s special operations forces (SOF) are organized, equipped
and trained, and then deployed by USSOCOM to meet the high demands of Geographic
Combatant Commanders (GCCs) around the world. USSOCOM has the central role in planning
and executing the worldwide campaign against terrorism. In both its supported and supporting
roles, the command will successfully execute the mission as assigned and directed by the
Secretary of Defense (SecDef). Additionally, Title 10 U.S. Code states that USSOCOM is to
"prepare special operational forces to carry out assigned missions." Preparation covers areas
such as: developing strategy, doctrine, and tactics; training assigned forces; conducting special
courses; validating and prioritizing requirements; ensuring interoperability; monitoring
promotions, retention and assignments; developing and acquiring special equipment. These
responsibilities drive the command's eleven core tasks that stretch across the spectrum of peace
and war. Forces provided to the theater commanders must be highly capable and relevant to the
needed tasks.

1.4.1. Direct Action: Short-duration strikes and other small-scale offensive actions taken to
seize, destroy, capture or recover in denied areas.

1.4.2. Special Reconnaissance (SR): Acquiring information concerning the capabilities,
intentions and activities of an enemy.

1.4.3. Unconventional Warfare (UW): Operations conducted by, through and with surrogate
forces that are organized, trained, equipped, supported and directed by external forces.

1.4.4. Foreign Internal Defense (FID): Providing training and other assistance to foreign
governments and their militaries to enable the foreign government to provide for its country’s


                                                                                                 5
national security.

1.4.5. Civil Affairs (CA) Operations: Activities that establish, maintain or influence relations
between U.S. forces and foreign civil authorities and civilian populations to facilitate U.S.
military operations.

1.4.6. Counterterrorism: Measures taken to prevent, deter and respond to terrorism.

1.4.7. Information Operations (IO): Operations that provide truthful information to foreign
audiences that influence behavior in support of (ISO) U.S. military operations. Operations
designed to achieve information superiority by adversely affecting enemy information and
systems while protecting U.S. information and systems.

1.4.8. Counterproliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD): Actions taken to
locate, seize, destroy or capture, recover and render such weapons safe.

1.4.9. Security Force Assistance: Unified action by joint, interagency, intergovernmental and
multinational community to sustain and assist host nation (HN) or regional security forces in
support of a legitimate authority.

1.4.10. Counterinsurgency (COIN) Operations: Those military, paramilitary, political,
economic, psychological and civic actions taken by a government to defeat insurgency.

1.4.11. Activities Specified by the President or SECDEF

1.5. AFSOC Mission. The AFSOC mission is to present combat ready Air Force Special
Operations Forces to conduct and support global special operations missions.

1.5.1. AFSOC Core Missions. AFSOC’s 10 core missions define the activities for which
AFSOC is organized, trained and equipped to accomplish during peacetime and hostilities.
AFSOC delivers special operations power through 10 core missions to conduct and support
global special operations missions anytime, anywhere.

1.5.1.1. Agile Combat Support (ACS). Effectively create, prepare, deploy, employ, sustain,
and protect Air Force Special Operations Command Airmen, assets, and capabilities across the
range of military operations at our initiative, speed, and tempo. ACS: the foundational and cross
cutting core emission for all other AFSOC core missions.

1.5.1.2. Aviation Foreign Internal Defense (AvFID). AvFID operations directly support US
security and foreign policy, providing lead airpower elements that shape the environment by
working with partner nations (PN) to enable them to employ, sustain, and integrate their own
aviation to support their own internal security, stability, and economic development. AvFID:
Assess, Train, Advise, and Assist.

1.5.1.3. Battlefield Air Operations (BAO). A unique set of combat proven capabilities
(Combat Control, Pararescue, Combat Weather, and Tactical Air Control Party) provided by
regular and Air Force Reserve Component SOF Battle Field Airmen who integrate, synchronize,

                                                                                                   6
and control air space assets (manned and unmanned) to achieve, tactical, operational, and
strategic objectives. BAO: a unique mission that touches each and every AFSOC mission.

1.5.1.4. Command and Control (C2). C2 is the exercise of authority and direction by a
properly designated commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the
mission. C2: light, lean, agile, and relevant.

1.5.1.5. Information Operations (IO). The integrated employment of the capabilities of
influence operations, electronic warfare operations, and network warfare operations, in concert
with specified integrated control enablers, to influence, disrupt, corrupt, or usurp adversarial
human and automated decision making while protecting our own. IO: affecting the perceptions
and behaviors of the adversary.

1.5.1.6. Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR). Synchronized and integrate the
planning and operation of sensors and assets for tasking, collecting, processing, exploitation, and
dissemination. ISR: for the creation of predictive battle space awareness.

1.5.1.7. Precision Aerospace Fires. An integrated capability to find, fix, tract, target, engage,
and assess targets using a single weapons systems or a combination of systems. Precision
Aerospace Fires: deploy globally, strike precisely. (AFSOC retains the term "aerospace" in
describing its core missions and so it is retained here. This term has been generally superseded
by “airpower” in doctrinal usage. Reference AFDD 3-05)

1.5.1.8. Military Information Support Operations (MISO). Planned operations to convey
selected information and indicators to foreign audiences to influence their emotions, motives,
objectives, reasoning, and ultimately the behavior of foreign governments, organizations, groups,
and individuals. MISO: Targeting the mind of the adversary.

1.5.1.9. Specialized Air Mobility. (SAM). The conduct of rapid global infiltration, infiltration,
and resupply of personnel, equipment, and material using specialized systems and tactics. SAM:
the ability to employ SOF at a moment’s notice.

1.5.1.10. Specialized Refueling (SREF). The conduct of rapid, global refueling using
specialized systems and tactics. SREF: Increasing the range, payload, loiter time, flexibility and
versatility.

1.6. SOF Operational Environment and Medical Support Implications. Characteristic
mission requirements of AFSOC mission profiles make it necessary to modify conventional
medical planning methods for providing medical support. Special operations are high risk/high
gain operations; are usually conducted on short notice; are under significant operations security
(OPSEC) considerations; are generally in enemy held, denied, or sensitive territory, and are
conducted by specially organized, trained, and equipped forces in pursuit of national objectives.

1.7. AFSOC Medical Mission Statement. Deploy with and in support of (ISO) Special
Operations Forces in order to (IOT) deliver SOF combat medical support and to modernize and
advance SOF medical capabilities, medical technologies IOT maximize war-fighter performance.
Provide high quality, state-of the-art prevention-based health care for AFSOC members, families
and beneficiaries.
                                                                                                    7
1.7.1. AFSOC Medical Capabilities. AFSOC medics provide a comprehensive medical
platform for SOF personnel across the health care continuum--prevention through intervention
and rehabilitation. SOF medics ensure deployable AFSOC forces via the employment of
AFSOC medical UTCs. AFSOC medics deploy with SOF IOT provide preventive healthcare,
routine healthcare, urgent/emergent point-of-injury trauma care, forward
resuscitative/stabilization surgery, intensive care, CASEVAC and critical care casualty
evacuation. Additionally, SOF medics provide medical support for humanitarian operations,
noncombatant evacuation operations (NEO), civil affairs (CA) missions, irregular warfare (IW),
unconventional warfare (UW) missions, foreign internal defense (FID) missions, medical
stability operations, healthcare capacity building and health care infrastructure development
capabilities ISO COIN operations, stability/security operations and medical support for other
unique USSOCOM missions/taskings.

1.7.2. Other Taskings. AFSOF forces may be tasked to support operations which have a
greater focus on humanitarian assistance (HA) and civil affairs. AFSOC medical forces will
provide general preventive care and public health expertise to operational commanders without
compromise to the primary mission of force health protection and deployed care.
1.7.3. The Challenge of AFSOC Medicine. The Challenge of AFSOC Medicine is to provide
the highest quality healthcare/health service support for AFSOC and joint special operations
forces, frequently without the benefit of traditional pillars of health services support and often
without the benefit of fully developed traditional echelons of care in austere, forward areas with
significantly high medical and operational threat/risk. AFSOC operational medics are trained
and equipped for permissive, uncertain and hostile operating environments.

1.7.4. Medical Threat. The medical threat to AFSOC forces includes battle injuries from
conventional as well as unconventional weapons including directed energy weapons, chemical,
biological and nuclear or radiological weapons. Historically, disease and non-battle injuries
(DNBI) have had a major impact on deployed military forces. The combination of austere
operating environments and the small number of forces can allow any incidence of DNBI to have
disastrous effects on SOF forces if not prevented. Various AFSOC forces may succumb to
DNBI very rapidly because of extreme operating environments which include mission stresses,
fatigue, task saturation, loss of situational awareness, psychological stress or from environmental
factors (like heat, cold, altitude, and night/darkness). Diseases from water, food or vector borne
sources as well as communicable diseases also remain great threats to the operational forces.
The AFSOC medic must understand and plan for the above medical constraints while also being
aware of the unique requirements of SOF aviators, airborne, diving, and ground combatants.

1.7.5. Operational Environment. AFSOC medical forces are selected from highly motivated
personnel. These individuals are then extremely well trained and equipped. AFSOC medical
forces will remain highly mobile, scalable, and flexible. They interface directly with sister
service SOF and conventional medical teams and assets and must have an understanding of the
roles and requirements within the other services. AFSOC medical forces should expect to
perform their roles at night, during low-light, or blackout conditions using night vision devices
and, at times, while experiencing circadian disruption. An additional and increasingly more
frequent operational environment is one requiring interface with a HN health care system.


                                                                                                    8
Ultimately, AFSOC medical forces must be focused on sustainment of the mission performance
of SOF personnel and accomplishment of the mission.

1.7.6. AFSOC Command Surgeon. The AFSOC Surgeon (SG) is committed to providing the
Commander, United States Special Operations Command (COMUSSOCOM) a robust medical
capability. In turn, USSOCOM and AFSOC operational commanders encourage development of
state-of-the-art equipment/supplies by providing funding. USSOCOM funds the development of
medical solutions to problems identified by the Biomedical Initiatives Steering Committee
(BISC). The BISC collects potential projects or problems from the Theater Special Operations
Commands (TSOCs) and component surgeons for prioritization.




                                                                                             9
                                           Chapter 2

                 ORGANIZATIONS, ROLES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM).

2.1.1. USSOCOM at MacDill AFB, Florida, is one of nine combatant commanders directly
responsible to the President and Secretary of Defense. As a functional combatant command,
USSOCOM has been given lead responsibility for waging war on terrorism. Its duties in
connection with this responsibility include planning, directing, and executing special operations
in the conduct of the war on terrorism. USSOCOM also provides special operations forces
(SOF) to support the Geographic Combatant Commander's theater security cooperation plans.
The designation of Special Operations as a Major Force Program makes USSOCOM unique
among the nine combatant commands in that it has service-like responsibilities to organize, train,
and equip its forces for special operations missions.

2.1.2. USSOCOM has five component commands and one sub-unified command: the US Army
Special Operations Command, Fort Bragg, North Carolina; the Naval Special Warfare Command
(NAVSPECWAR), Coronado, California; the Air Force Special Operations Command, Hurlburt
Field, Florida; the Marine Corps Forces Special Operations Command, Camp Lejeune, North
Carolina and the Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC), Fort Bragg, North Carolina. (See
Figure 2-1)

Figure 2-1 USSOCOM Component Commands




2.1.3. Theater Special Operations Commands (TSOCs). Theater Special Operations
Commands (TSOC) are sub-unified commands established within each geographic combatant
command. The function of the TSOC is to ensure that SOF is fully integrated into the
                                                                                               10
Geographic Combatant Commander's collective security plans and contingency operations. The
TSOC commander plans and conducts joint special operations, ensuring that SOF capabilities are
matched to mission requirements while advising component commanders in theater on the proper
employment of SOF. Additionally, TSOCs provide the core element for establishing a Joint
Special Operations Task Force (JSOTF), a quick reaction command and control element that can
respond immediately to regional emergencies. There are joint Service medical planners assigned
to TSOCs. The seven TSOCs supporting geographic combatant commanders worldwide are:
Special Operations Command Central (SOCCENT), Special Operations Command Europe
(SOCEUR), Special Operations Command Pacific (SOCPAC), Special Operations Command
South (SOCSOUTH), Special Operations Command Korea (SOCKOR), Special Operations
Command Africa (SOCAFRICA), and Special Operations Command Joint Forces Command
(SOCJFCOM).

2.2. Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC).

2.2.1. Headquarters. AFSOC is headquartered at Hurlburt Field, Florida, and functions as both
an Air Force major command (MAJCOM) and as the air component of USSOCOM. As a
MAJCOM, AFSOC retains Title 10 responsibilities to organize, train, equip, administer, and
maintain special operations forces for worldwide deployment and assignment to unified
commands. As the air component of USSOCOM, AFSOC provides Air Force special operations
forces (AFSOF) to accomplish assigned special operations mission activities. Also as the Air
Force component, the AFSOC commander exercises command authority consistent with
operational control (OPCON) over all Continental United States (CONUS)-based active and
reserve AFSOF assets.

2.2.2. AFSOC Surgeon. The AFSOC/SG functions as a MAJCOM/SG and as the air
component surgeon to USSOCOM. As a MAJCOM/SG, the AFSOC surgeon is responsible for
establishing, coordinating, and sustaining a health care system for AFSOC personnel and for
organizing, training, and equipping AFSOC medical forces for contingency medical support. As
the air component surgeon to USSOCOM, the AFSOC/SG plans execution of all Air Force
medical support for AFSOF and serves as the principal Air Force medical service advisor to
USSOCOM.

2.2.3. Organizational Structure. AFSOC medical units and line units with medical
responsibilities are currently organized into a Wing, Group, Squadron and flight configurations.

2.2.3.1. Special Tactics. AFSOC's 720th Special Tactics Group (STG) has six squadrons
comprised of Pararescue, Special Operations Weather, and Combat Control, and AFSOC
Tactical Air Control Party (TACP) personnel: the 23rd Special Tactics Squadron (STS) and 10th
Combat Weather Squadron at Hurlburt Field, Florida, the 22nd STS at McChord AFB,
Washington, the 24th STS and 21st STS at Pope AFB, North Carolina, the functional oversight
of 320th STS at Kadena AB, Japan, and the 321st STS at RAF Mildenhall, United Kindom.

2.2.3.2. AFSOC Supported Units. AFSOC provides leadership and oversight for the 1st
Special Operations Wing (SOW) at Hurlburt Field, FL, the 27th SOW at Cannon AFB, NM, the
352nd Special Operations Group (SOG) at RAF Mildenhall, United Kingdom (UK), and the
353rd SOG at Kadena AB, Japan. The 352 and 353 SOGs are Direct Reporting Units (DRUs) to
AFSOC/CC. AFSOC also has three other DRUs: the l8th Test Squadron, the 720th Special
                                                                                               11
Tactics Group (STG), and the Air Force Special Operations Training Center (AFSOTC), all
located at Hurlburt Field, FL. Additionally, AFSOC has air reserve component (ARC) gained
units: the 193rd SOW of the Pennsylvania Air National Guard (ANG) at Harrisburg Airport,
Middletown PA; the 9l9th SOW of the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) at Duke Field, FL.

2.3. AFSOC Medical Preparedness and Force Protection.

2.3.1. Force Preparation. The medical groups supporting AFSOC units, with the assistance of
personnel in the Operations Support Medical flights (OSM), provide critical support to the
AFSOC mission by preparing the force for deployed operations. SOF must be in a continual
state of readiness to support minimal-notice tasking. Fitness and prompt attention to health
problems are critical to assuring each member's readiness to perform in austere environments for
prolonged periods. It is imperative for AFSOC units to participate in the fitness program to
maintain a fit and ready force.

2.3.2. Preventive Health Assessment (PHA). The PHA is a critical factor in force protection.
The PHA screens for disease risk factors warranting intervention, assesses disease control or
management, updates immunizations, and assures good dental health. Certain predeployment
surveillance measures are performed with each PHA to reduce activities immediately prior to
any deployment. Some AFSOC personnel require more stringent assessments associated with
specific career fields. These measures greatly expedite AFSOC member processing for
deployment and unit commanders are assured of the fitness and health of members they deploy.

2.3.3. Disease and Injury Prevention. Prevention is a key competency of AFSOC medics at
home station and while deployed. Experience has shown that preventable disease and non-battle
injury (DNBI) can weaken or decimate force capability. DNBI is a particular risk to small force
packages. Small teams are highly dependent on synergy gained from performance of individuals
working as a team. At home station, prevention efforts concentrate on mitigation of health risk
factors, elimination of unnecessary risks in training, and minimizing occupational injury. During
deployed operations, AFSOC medics will provide mission commanders with assessments of
operational risk and suggestions for diminishing risk within mission parameters. Prevention of
disease during deployments pays particular dividends in force capability through reduction of
risk from disease vectors, food-borne illness, water-borne illness, chemical, biological, and
radiological related exposures, and endemic infectious disease.

2.3.4. Human Performance Enhancement (HPE). The AFSOC/SG is determined to fully
exploit that specialized knowledge of the human weapon system and go one step further to
determine, develop, or advocate new ways to enhance the performance capabilities of all AFSOC
personnel. To that end, AFSOC/SG pursues HPE on two fronts: physiological enhancements
and psychological enhancements.

2.3.4.1. Physiological Enhancements. Human limitations can be associated with physical
endurance or mission duration, vision in dark environments, and altitude. There are also well
known limitations to human performance secondary to exposure to enemy threats such as
Directed Energy Weapons (DEW); ballistic weapons; and nuclear, biological, and chemical
(NBC) weapons. To counter the adverse effects on performance each of these represents, the
AFSOC/SG plans and advocates for countermeasures or other performance enhancement
techniques or technologies. These include Laser Eye Protection (LEP) technologies, new
                                                                                                12
enhanced and advanced night vision systems, chemical/biological protection systems (masks,
suits, detectors, and immunobiologics/vaccines), advanced body armor, fatigue countermeasures,
biological/chemical countermeasures, and high altitude/decompression sickness risk mitigation.

2.3.4.1.1. Human Performance Team (HPT). This team serves as the AFSOC/SG
representative for aerospace physiology in aviation human factors. The team conducts research
to identify specialized life support equipment to enhance special operations effectiveness; they
are members of an integrated aerospace medicine team working with local flight safety and flight
medicine agencies; and they provide briefings with topics tailored to unit tasking and training
programs. Additionally, they support regional helicopter and high altitude parachutists with
specialized human performance training. These HPT personnel are assigned to the AFSOC SOF
Aerospace Physiology Team UTC (FFQE5). This two person team with a corresponding
equipment/supply (FFQEP) package provides oversight, management, and operational
capabilities relating to human performance factors in deployed environments (i.e. High Altitude
Airdrop Mission Support [HAAMS], hyperbaric medicine, mishap investigation, etc).

2.3.4.2. Psychological Enhancements. Aerospace and special operations psychology efforts
employ primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention principles as a means of enhancing
performance and reducing risk. AFSOC Operational Psychologists apply proven psychological
principles to enhance individual and unit performance and security.

   2.3.4.2.1. First, special duty attributes are determined and assessment/selection criteria are
   derived by applying objective processes and Squadron Medical Element (SME) expertise.
   Multi-perspective processes are developed to integrate, select, and position SOF personnel
   for mission security and success. This creates a psychological assessment and selection
   process that is based on operational SME expertise – AND – is defensible under investigative
   scrutiny.

   2.3.4.2.2. Second, human performance enhancement training is provided in such areas as
   physiological self-controls, attention/energy management, stress optimization, critical
   incident recovery, and other psychological or interpersonal methods in covert and clandestine
   operations.

   2.3.4.2.3. Third, all AFSOC Operational Psychologists maintain Joint Forces
   Command/Joint Personnel Recovery Agency (JFCOM/JPRA) certified capability to
   supervise psychological aspects of Survive, Evade, Resist, Escape (SERE) training and lead
   the SERE Psychology aspects of Personnel Recovery (PR) operations. They are also
   uniquely qualified to provide positively focused psychological recovery training for return to
   duty (RTD).

   2.3.4.2.4. Fourth, Operational Psychologists are trained in provision of consultation to
   intelligence interviewing during deployment.

   2.3.4.2.5. Fifth, Operational Psychologists support mishap investigations through provision
   of unique human behavioral individual and systems analysis.

   2.3.4.2.6. Sixth, Operational Psychologists provide behavioral consultation support to
   commanders and decision teams.
                                                                                               13
2.3.4.3. The AFSOC SOF Psychologist is also assigned to the AFSOC SOF Psychologist UTC
FFQE7. They serve as a member of the commander’s staff, provides psychological support,
consultation, and management for SERE repatriation resources and processes as specified JPRA.
They are responsible for critical incident and RTD consultation related to mishaps and isolated or
returned persons. They provide psychological consultation and intervention on human
performance and resource optimization in SOF aviation and provide consultation to
commanders. They consult to commanders on selection and placement of special duty personnel
as required and advise information operations and psychological operations planners.

2.4. AFSOC Medical System. Special Operations Forces are required to operate in remote,
austere, and or far-forward environments, which may not be adequately supported by
conventional medical personnel. AFSOC Surgeon (SG) is tasked with providing a medical
system that can provide full spectrum health care to the supported SOF personnel who may be
deployed in these environments. The overall AFSOC medical system may be divided into the
base medical groups, primarily focused on home station health care, and Operational Support
Medical flights, focused on deployment medical support and Pararescue (PJ) assets that are
focused on SOF operational team support.

2.4.1. Home Station Health Support. Home station health care supports the AFSOC mission
through programs that promote force fitness and performance, preventive and acute care, and
managed health care for active duty personnel and non-active duty beneficiaries. Medical
service efficiency is optimized through sound business practices, effective utilization
management/review, and cost-effective resourcing.

2.4.1.1. Medical Groups. AFSOC has two fixed health care facilities: the 1st Special
Operations Medical Group (1 SOMDG), Hurlburt Field, Florida and the 27th Special Operations
Medical Group (27 SOMDG), Cannon AFB, New Mexico. These units operate outpatient clinics
that offer primary care, aerospace medicine, optometry, pediatrics, health promotion,
bioenvironmental engineering, public health, physical therapy, behavioral health, women’s
health, and dental services. Their primary mission is to support the wellness and fitness of the
host base beneficiary population by operating community-based ambulatory clinics.

2.4.1.2. Operations Support Medical (OSM) Flights. OSM flight personnel are UTC specific
trained and equipped to support both the AFSOC flying mission as well as the medical support
needs of deployed SOF units.

   2.4.1.2.1. OSM personnel fall under the command and control (C2) of Line of the Air Force
   Commanders of special operations units. At home station, OSM personnel report to the
   Special Operations Support Squadron (SOSS) commander, but Special Operations Forces
   Medical Elements (SOFMEs) could also fall under the C2 of flying squadron commanders if
   assigned to that squadron as an SME. However, in either case, while deployed, OSM
   personnel report through Joint Special Operations Air Component (JSOAC) and/or JSOTF
   commanders to the Theater Special Operations Commander to the Component Commander
   (COCOM) Commander. AFSOC mission commanders maintain operational control of
   AFSOC medical personnel in order to support short notice and/or highly specialized missions
   and to ensure OSM personnel have the required training prior to being tasked to support such
   operations.
                                                                                               14
   2.4.1.2.2. OSM flights have a combination of flight surgeons, medical technicians, public
   health and bioenvironmental engineering technicians, plans/operations officers, and organic
   medical logistics support. OSM flights vary depending on location but may have several
   complimentary medical components. OSMs may also be augmented by the local medical
   group for any personnel or capability shortfalls.

   2.4.1.2.3. The primary role of OSM flights is to establish a comprehensive deployment
   medicine program to support routine care and provide a trauma response capability for
   deployed forces. OSM flights centrally manage the medical assets assigned to their
   respective groups. They provide oversight of personnel management, training requirements,
   war reserve materiel (WRM) assets, Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS),
   Medical Readiness Decision Support System (MRDSS), Air Expeditionary Force (AEF)
   Reporting Tool (ART), Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS), and other reporting
   requirements.

   2.4.1.2.4. OSM flights focus on operational support medicine; i.e., deployed medical
   support, trauma care, and CASEVAC; home-station flight medicine for the flying community
   and their dependents; and the operational planning processes. OSMs also work closely with
   their local base medical group to support Preventive Health Assessment (PHA), aviation
   psychology, immunizations, deployment surveillance, and health promotion/prevention
   programs or processes.

   2.4.1.2.5. OSM medical personnel assigned to other AFSOC UTCs, such as the Special
   Operations Surgical Team (SOST) and Special Operations Critical Care Evacuation Team
   (SOCCET), train to support the AFSOC and SOF missions and maintain their clinical skills
   at the closest medical treatment facility (MTF) having that specialty service.

2.4.1.3. Special Tactics Group (STG) Surgeon Roles and Responsibilities. The STG/SG
coordinates medical training and oversees appropriate medical equipment for medics and
pararescuemen assigned to STG. The STG Surgeon must plan medical support for special tactics
missions, participate in selection of special tactics candidates, and serve as the AFSOC Surgeon's
consultant for medical issues specific to special tactics. The STG/SG will work with the
AFSOC/SG and/or OSM flight commander/medical plans officer to ensure that roles and
responsibilities of STG personnel and OSM personnel are well understood and that training is
undertaken to enhance interoperability.

2.4.1.4. Medical Group Interface with OSM Personnel. OSM personnel are an important part
of, and often serve as, a considerable portion of the medical capability at a particular base.
Accordingly, close cooperation is required between OSM medical personnel and the host
medical treatment facility (HMTF) to fully utilize valuable medical resources. This is
particularly relevant to force preparation as well as the need to ensure medical currency among
the OSM physicians, Physician Assistants (PAs), Independent Duty Medical Technicians
(IDMTs), SOST and SOCCET personnel. AFSOC medical personnel have unique missions and
operational support requirements significantly beyond conventional SME or Mobile Field
Surgical Team/Critical Care Air Transport (MFST/CCATT) doctrine.



                                                                                               15
2.4.2. Deployed Medical Care. Deployed SOF medical support provides a continuum of
medical care from point of injury utilizing Pararescue support to entrance into the formal ground
medical and regulated Air Evacuation (AE) system. The SOFME is the essential component of
AFSOC medicine and is the cornerstone around which AFSOC UTCs are built. In joint
operations, SOFME and SOCCETs provide CASEVAC capability utilizing SOF ground, fixed/
rotary/tilt wing platforms to support USSOCOM components. AFSOC medical capability
includes essential base operating support medical care and Forward Resuscitative Surgery (FRS)
with the SOST to all component SOF units deployed in support of special operations missions.

Figure 2-2 SOF Casualty Management



           Non-permissive


                   CCATT
                                     SOF Casualty Management
                                                        CASEVAC


                 - Point of Injury -                                                   - SOF FOB -
           Initial Stabilization & Extraction
                                                    PJ/Seal/SF/SOFME               Trauma Stabilization
                                                                                      and Treatment

                 PJs/SOF Medic                                                      SOFME ,SOCCET
                                                                                      & SOCCET




                                                                                               SOFME &
                                                        Transload        CASEVAC
                                                                                               SOCCET

                                                      PJs -> SOFME




                                                AEROMEDICAL EVACUATION

            Major Theater                                                            - MOB -
              Hospital                                                         Follow-on Treatment
                                                                               and AE Stabilization
             2
                                                                                                          2




2.4.3. SOF Medical Elements (FFQEK). The SOFME is a three person UTC; AFSOC’s
primary deployable medical element and the core AFSOC field medical team. The SOFME
normally consists of one flight surgeon and two Independent Duty Medical Technicians
(IDMT)/SOF-trained enlisted medics. However, this UTC may be tailored to meet operational
mission requirements and may include SOF-trained physician assistants (PAs) in place of an
IDMT/SOF trained enlisted medic. (AFTTP 3-42.61)

2.4.3.1. SOFME Capability. SOFME personnel have extensive medical training focused on
combat health service support, trauma care, aeromedical decision making, and bare-base
preventive medicine support. The key capability that the SOFME provides is deployed
aerospace medicine support for AFSOC aircrews and special duty personnel [Pararescue
Jumpers/Specialists (PJs), Combat Control Team (CCT), Combat Weather Team (CWT)]. The
SOFME provides medical expeditionary combat support (ECS) and CASEVAC for AFSOF and
other SOF. Medical Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS) includes, but is not limited to;

                                                                                                              16
preventive/occupational healthcare, routine healthcare, urgent/emergent point-of-injury trauma
care, forward resuscitative/stabilization, aeromedical decision making, aircraft mishap
investigation, CASEVAC of injured/ill personnel and medical support for humanitarian
operations, non-combatant evacuation operation (NEO), Civil Affairs (CA) missions, UW
missions, FID missions, healthcare engagement, healthcare capacity building and healthcare
infrastructure development capabilities ISO COIN operations, stability/security operations and
medical support for other unique USSOCOM missions/taskings. Additionally, SOFME
personnel utilize all sources of medical intelligence in order to (IOT) develop medical threat
assessments and advise SOF commanders on how to mitigate potential medical threats.
Furthermore, SOFME personnel provide appropriate aeromedical dispositions for ill or injured
aircrew/other special duty personnel. The SOFME is specifically trained and equipped to
provide SOF mission support and to establish bare-base operations in austere, forward and/or
sensitive locations.

2.4.3.2. When deployed in conjunction with AFSOC equipment UTCs, a SOFME is capable of
providing medical support to a deployed AFSOC unit for up to 30 days without resupply.
Additionally, the SOFME is capable of providing casualty holding and staging for up to 24 hours
and forward CASEVAC support for SOF units via opportune SOF aircraft.

2.4.3.3. SOFME personnel receive extensive training.

2.4.3.3.1. SOFME Flight Surgeon minimum training is as follows: Advanced Cardiac Life
Support (ACLS)/Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS); Trauma Skills training; Pre-Hospital
Life Support (PHTLS); Global Medicine; CASEVAC Course; Field Skills training; SERE
training; and all appropriate aircrew block training.

2.4.3.3.2. All AFSOC enlisted medics trained as IDMT’s must meet the minimal training as
follows: Emergency Medical Technician-Paramedics (EMT-P), ACLS, Pre-Hospital Life
Support (PHTLS), aeromedical evacuation training and/or CASEVAC Course Field Skills
training, SERE training and all appropriate aircrew block training.

2.4.3.3.3. SOFME personnel may also receive initial and/or sustainment trauma management
training via a SOF-specific training track at Joint Special Operations Medical Training Center
and/or the Center for Sustainment of Trauma and Readiness Skills (CSTARS). Personnel train
to operate in all types of weather, day or night, including low light or blacked-out conditions.
SOFME personnel also train to acquire specialized tactical skills that are appropriate for the
tactical environment and the supported customer. Furthermore, SOFMEs are trained to perform
their duties onboard a variety of platforms (rotary, fixed and tilt-wing aircraft, ground vehicles,
and maritime assets). Thus, SOFME personnel are organized, trained and equipped to
effectively operate within austere, low/medium/high-threat, dynamic environments.

2.4.3.4. AFSOC Medical WRM assemblages provide the SOFME with medical supplies and
equipment required to support SOF combat operations. All AFSOC WRM assemblages are
packed to an allowance standard (AS) that ensures interoperability among AFSOC units and
interoperability with sister service SOF units. The SOFME individual medical kit is comprised
of a medical ruck sack (carried by each SOFME member) and medical supplies to support ATLS
level care for 2-3 severely injured casualties. The SOFME Rapid Response Deployment Kit
(RRDK) provides medical supplies required to establish ISB/FSB/FOB/FB/COP medical support
                                                                                                 17
for a deployed population at risk (PAR) of 200. The SOFME CASEVAC kit includes
equipment/supplies necessary to evacuate injured/ill personnel.

2.4.3.5. The SOFME provides casualty and disease management during SOF operations to
stabilize injured or ill patients while moving them to/towards definitive care. AFSOC deployed
capabilities for management of disease and injury can be characterized by four phases: (1) Self
Aid and Buddy Care (SABC); (2) initial response; (3) stabilization and treatment; (4)
CASEVAC. The SOFME is responsible for phases 2 through 4. The four phases of SOF
medical response may overlap and/or occur simultaneously, depending on the situation/scenario.
If movement by air is immediately available and/or rendered urgent by the tactical situation
and/or medical condition of the patient/casualty, stabilization/treatment may occur during
CASEVAC.

   2.4.3.5.1. Rapid Response Deployment Kit (RRDK) (UTC FFQEM). The RRDK
   package contains trauma, sick call, preventive medicine and emergency medical treatment
   resources for short term (not to exceed 30 days) tactical deployment of special operations
   forces to an austere location. When deployed in conjunction with SOFME personnel, this
   UTC is capable of providing basic outpatient and advanced trauma life support. For daily
   sick call and base operating support, the RRDK can support 200 personnel for 30 days
   without resupply. The RRDK is composed of four modules; Advanced Resuscitation
   Module, Trauma Module, Environmental Module, and Medical Module. Each module has a
   specific function. The Advanced Resuscitation Module is comprised of medical supplies and
   equipment to support advanced cardiac life support. The Trauma Module provides supplies
   and equipment for Advanced Trauma Life Support, both at the base level and during
   CASEVAC missions. The Environmental Module encompasses equipment and supplies
   utilized for conducting public health threat assessments at a deployed location. The Medical
   Module is packed with medical equipment and supplies to provide routine (clinical/sick-call)
   patient care.

   2.4.3.5.2. CASEVAC Kit (UTC FFQEN). This UTC provides additional equipment for
   SOFMEs supporting extended bare base operations. The CASEVAC equipment module is
   designed to provide in-flight casualty treatment, sustainment and monitoring, as well as the
   ability to transport and store blood and blood products. The CASEVAC Kit adds a
   communication suite that enables the SOFME to transmit secure voice/data in support of
   casualty management and disease non-battle injury (DNBI) tracking. This kit complements
   the RRDK and supports CASEVAC of two critical patients per mission.

   2.4.3.5.3. SOF Air Transportable Treatment Unit (ATTU) (UTC FFQEL). The SOF
   ATTU is a mobile medical treatment facility for establishing an environmentally controlled
   shelter that is complete with generators, environmental control unit, and tents. It may be
   deployed with the SOFME to provide shelter for primary care and emergency medical
   operations. Additionally, ATTU contains a laptop computer and other administrative
   supplies for a deployed SOFME. It provides temporary holding and staging shelter for
   aeromedical evacuation. SOFMEs supported with an ATTU can be self-sufficient for short
   periods, but requires Base Operating Support (BOS) for extended duration operations.

2.4.3.6. SOF Medical Element Augmentation (UTC FFQE8). SOF Medical Element
Augmentation Team: This 4-man team consists of a Physician Assistant, Bioenvironmental

                                                                                              18
Engineering technician, Public Health technician, and a medical plans officer. SOF Medical
Element Augmentation is designed to augment bare base operations that are serviced by a
SOFME. The package enhances capability to perform food safety, field hygiene/sanitation,
vector surveillance, communicable disease control tasks, medical logistics and operational
planning. Additionally, it provides chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and
environmental threat detection, limited patient decontamination capability, and long term
industrial hygiene sustainability and environmental protection surveillance. It is important to
note that this element is not staffed or equipped to perform overall base wide decontamination
and close coordination with the deployed base commander must be maintained to prevent any
misinterpretation of this specific capability. (AFTTP 3-42.61)

   2.4.3.6.1. SOF Medical Augmentation Equipment Package (UTC FFQEG). This
   package provides enough equipment and supplies for limited bare base support for force
   protection health surveillance and decontamination activities.

   2.4.3.6.2. The personnel assigned to the SOF Medical Element Augmentation need to be
   proficient in their individual Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) and a well trained member of
   a limited patient decontamination team.

2.4.3.7. Special Operations Surgical Team (SOST UTC FFQE3). The five-person SOST is
composed of a General Surgeon (45S3), an Orthopedic Surgeon (45B3), an Emergency Services
Physician (44E3A), Advanced Practice Nurse – Certified Nurse Anesthetist (046Y3M),
substitutable with an Anesthesiologist (45A3), and a Surgical Services Craftsman (4N171). The
SOST comprises the core of AFSOC’s advanced surgical capability. The five-member team and
accompanying supply and equipment increments (UTCs FFQEF/E/S) can be airlifted in any
aircraft. Ground transportation can be accomplished in a single High Mobility Multi-Wheeled
Vehicle (HMMWV), field ambulance or larger size vehicle. The equipment package to support
the SOST is organized such that it can be palletized as personal or professional gear. The
majority of supplies and equipment are maintained in five man-portable field packs. The ability
to attain initial operating capability within 15 minutes is dependent upon the back packs being
available to the team members immediately upon arrival at the site. The team requires shelter
and potable water to be operational. Once operational, it can be self sufficient for 48 hours and
then requires normal base operating support. The planning goal for medical support to SOF
should be to insure surgical capability as close to the golden hour as physically possible. SOSTs
are trained in SOF operating environments and may function in a stand-alone mode for short
periods of time. They will typically be deployed as surgical augmentation with the SOFMEs
who provide the shelter, power, water, and other operational requirements. (AFTTP 3-42.65)

   2.4.3.7.1. SOST Capability. The SOST is designed to be a lightweight, rapidly deployable
   far-forward surgical team that can provide advanced emergency medical and surgical care to
   combat and other casualties within 15 minutes from the time of infiltration to a usable shelter
   of opportunity. The SOST can provide damage control surgical stabilization and emergency
   medical care to injured or critically ill patients in any environment. SOST can perform up to
   10 damage control surgeries utilizing the primary equipment package. Once on location, the
   team equipment and personnel can be tailored to provide immediate on-scene trauma
   response and far-forward surgical resuscitation utilizing shelters of opportunity or full
   surgical stabilization from a forward operating base depending on the needs of the mission.
   Laboratory data is restricted to a hand held clinical lab analyzer. Radiographic imaging is
                                                                                                  19
   limited to abdominal sonography. Medications are limited to those essential for emergency
   resuscitative care, resuscitative surgery and immediate post-operative critical care. The
   SOST can operate independently for short periods of time in a limited number of scenarios
   (e.g., disaster response) but their full capabilities are realized when co-located with
   SOCCET. Capability is limited to the primary deployment package unless medical resupply
   is readily available. As such, SOST capability can be expanded modularly for larger scale
   operations of longer duration.

2.4.3.8. SOST Equipment Package. The SOST equipment package is modular and composed
of three complementary allowance standards. The first increment can stand alone for initial care
but all three are required to provide patients with optimal medical care.

   2.4.3.8.1. SOST First Increment (UTC FFQEF). This primary equipment package is
   contained in portable field packs and holds supplies for up to 10 resuscitative surgeries.
   Personnel will deploy with four portable packs. SOST personnel, equipment and supplies can
   be transported by a single HMMWV or UH-60 Blackhawk helicopter or larger
   vehicle/aircraft.

   2.4.3.8.2. SOST Second Increment (UTC FFQEE). The second increment is designed to
   augment the first increment and includes the electronics package and part of the
   communications package.

   2.4.2.8.3. SOST Third Increment (UTC FFQES). The third increment is one full pallet
   position of equipment and supplies and adds further augmentation and resupply to the first
   and second increments, significantly extends operational capability to more than twenty
   major surgeries until resupply is in place.

2.4.3.9. Special Operations Critical Care Evacuation Team (SOCCET UTC FFQE4). The
three-person SOCCET UTC is composed of an Emergency Services Physician (44E3A),
substitutable with a Critical Care Physician (44Y3), Anesthesiologist (45A3), a Critical
Care/Emergency Department Nurse (46N3E/J) and a Cardiopulmonary Craftsman (4H071). The
SOCCET comprises the core of AFSOC’s advanced critical care evacuation and post operative
capability. It provides the personnel for critical care med management to casualties transiting the
SOF casualty evacuation system. It provides continued trauma and post-operative casualty
management aboard SOF aircraft and other opportune transportation platforms. It deploys with
UTCs FFQEB/C/D, special operations critical care evacuation equipment sets. The SOCCET
with equipment/supply packages, provides critical care medical management to AFSOC
casualties both in theater and while transiting the non-regulated CASEVAC system. The team
can provide continued trauma and post-operative medical support aboard SOF ground, aircraft,
and other opportune evacuation platforms. The SOCCET is a highly flexible unit designed to
operate in conjunction with the SOFME and/or SOST, or other SOF or conventional joint service
medical elements, or in some limited or specific situations, they can be tasked to operate
independently. This UTC is designed to operate in conjunction with a SOFME but can be tasked
independently to support an evacuation mission on SOF aircraft. (AFTTP 3-42.65)

   2.4.3.9.1. SOCCET Capability. The SOCCET provides critical care medical management
   to SOF casualties both in theater and while transiting the non-regulated CASEVAC. Each
   team can provide continued trauma and post-operative medical support aboard any SOF air,
                                                                                                20
   sea, or ground evacuation platform. Their capabilities include initial resuscitation, (including
   advanced airway management, circulatory support and ATLS), pre-surgical stabilization and
   transport of combat casualties in addition to postoperative management and transport of
   critical combat casualties and other critically ill patients. Each team can provide critical care
   management to two critical patients per sortie with a holding capability of 12 to 24 hours. As
   with SOST, the SOCCET capability can be expanded modularly for larger scale operations of
   longer duration.

   2.4.2.10. SOCCET Equipment Package. The SOCCET equipment package is modular
   and composed of three separate allowance standards.

   2.4.3.10.1. SOCCET First Increment (UTC FFQEB). This increment is contained in
   portable field packs, is designed to be the minimal response package upon notification of a
   mission. It contains the required equipment to monitor and mechanically ventilate one patient
   as well as provide combat care and stabilization for three causalities. A total of four patients,
   two intubated and two patients requiring minimal monitoring, can be transported utilizing
   this equipment package.

   2.4.3.10.2. SOCCET Second Increment (UTC FFQEC). Deploying the second increment
   provides the capability to care for three patients for 48 hours. The second increment
   duplicates the first increment and adds two gear cases that contain the Intensive Care Unit
   (ICU) patient holding supplies. This allowance standard enables the SOCCET to provide
   initial trauma response, post-operative stabilization, minimal ICU holding (48 hours or less)
   and patient transport. Ideally, no more than three critical ventilated patients should be
   sustained and transported using this allowance standard. Three patients requiring minimal
   monitoring can also be maintained and transported.

   2.4.3.10.3. SOCCET Third Increment (UTC FFQED). Adding the third increment
   provides equipment for power generation, communication, battery charging, and blood
   holding capability for 72 hrs of sustained intensive care. This UTC can be utilized by both
   SOST and SOCCET.

2.4.3.11. SOST/SOCCET Synergy. SOST and SOCCET teams can deploy independently of
one another but optimal resource utilization involves the SOST and SOCCET deploying and
working together in a synergistic fashion. When the SOST and SOCCET are deployed in
conjunction with the SOFME, medical capability at a staging base is greatly enhanced and gives
AFSOC the capability of providing a robust medical presence. These UTCs are designed to
provide a specific capability and should not be fragmented or their personnel deployed
independently to meet non-standard UTC missions.

2.4.3.12. Additional Support Requirements. When SOST and SOCCET deploy together or
with other AFSOC medical UTCs, and/or expect to remain in theater for an extended time, a
Medical Plans and Operations Officer should deploy with the teams to support the operational
planning and logistical requirements. When these teams operate at a FOB for an extended
period, it would also be advantageous to add to the tasking a SOFME Augmentation Team,
consisting of a Physician Assistant (42G3), Bioenvironmental Engineering Technician (4B071),
Public Health Technician (4E071) and a Medical Planner (41A3).

                                                                                                 21
2.4.3.13. Operational capability of AFSOC SOST and SOCCET. SOST and SOCCET
provide the highest quality of care support in higher operational threat environments and where
the traditional pillars of health service support are not available. Medically, they train to operate
in all types of weather, day or night, including low light or blacked-out conditions.
Operationally, they train in specialized tactical skills that make them capable of interacting with
SOF elements that they support rather than a liability. The SOST train to perform their duties at
a variety of sites and the SOCCET are trained on a variety of platforms (rotary-, tilt-, and/or
fixed-wing aircraft, ground vehicles and maritime assets). Thus, SOST and SOCCET can
operate from austere environments, bare base or fixed base facilities in hazardous/high threat and
dynamic environments.

2.4.3.14. AFSOC SOF Aerospace Physiology Team (UTC FFQE5). This two person team
with a corresponding equipment/supply (FFQEP5) package provides oversight, management,
and operational capabilities relating to human performance factors in deployed environments
(i.e. High Altitude Airdrop Mission Support [HAAMS], hyperbaric medicine, mishap
investigation, etc). (AFTTP 3-42.63)

2.4.3.15. AFSOC SOF Psychologist (UTC FFQE7). This UTC provides a member to the
commander’s staff that provides psychological support, consultation, and management for SERE
repatriation resources and processes as specified Joint Personnel Recovery Agency (JPRA).
They are responsible for critical incident and RTD consultation related to MISHAPS and isolated
or returned persons. They provide psychological consultation and intervention on human
performance and resource optimization in SOF aviation. The psychologist also consults to
commanders on selection and placement of special duty personnel as required and advises
information operations and psychological operations planners. (AFTTP 3-42.62)

2.4.3.16. SOF Medical Command Element (UTC FFQE1). This UTC provides a command
medical staff element for deployed AFSOF/SOF headquarters command for contingency
operations. The 3 passengers (PAX) include Aerospace Medicine Physician (48GX), Health
Services Administrator (41A3), and Aerospace Medical Service Craftsman (4N071). It provides
core medical command staff advisors for deployed SOF commander and serves as AFSOC
component medical planners, medical staff, and medical advisors to deployed AFSOC/SOF
commander. It provides medical oversight of deployed medical assets, medical programs and
medical force health protection measures. They provide medical input to required briefings and
reports and serves as liaison with other medical elements and HN medical agencies. If it deploys
prior to main force, it can provide limited base medical support for 100 personnel for 7 days.
Can deploy with UTCs FFQEM, FFQEL, and FFQEN.

2.4.3.17. SOF Flight Medical Augmentation (UTC FFQE9). This UTC provides additional
flight medical support personnel to an operational AFSOC squadron or other special operations
unit. Deploys in conjunction with UTCs FFQEK and FFQEM, and is capable of providing
primary care and aerospace medicine to a deployed AFSOC unit for durations up to 30 days
without resupply. The SOF specific UTC will extend the base support capability of UTC
FFQEK (SOFME) at the deployed location. 2 PAX – Aerospace Medicine Physician (48G3),
Aerospace Medical Service Craftsman-7-Level (4N071).

2.4.3.18. SOF Irregular Warfare/Medical Stability Operations (IW/MSO) Team (UTC
FFQE2). This UTC provides medical personnel to execute missions in support of (ISO)
                                                                                                  22
IW/MSO program. It is primarily intended to support geographic combatant commanders’
(GCC) theater security cooperation goals and objectives by building partnership capacity in
health and medical services and infrastructure. It may also be used for missions and operations
with USAF Combat Aviation Advisor (CAA) squadron by providing additional medical
capabilities. It is primarily intended to deploy and collocate with US SOF forces. It may also
deploy to work directly with local populations through the PN ministries of defense or health or
the US embassy country team. This UTC can be deployed in total or increments to meet
operational mission requirements.

2.4.3.19. SOF IW/MSO Augmentation (UTC FFQET). This UTC provides additional
medical personnel to execute missions in support of IW/MSO program. It is designed to provide
additional medical personnel to FFQE2 UTC. It can collocate with partner-nation forces and
other Department of Defense (DoD) forces to support theater combatant commanders during
missions and operations. UTC can be deployed in total or increments to meet operational
mission requirements.

2.4.3.20. SOF Mental Health Flex Team (FFQEY). This UTC provides uniquely trained
human behavior experts for consultation to unit members and leadership. It serves as a mobile
and proactive performance enhancement and mental health support/consultation asset
implementing capability across a wide range of afsoc units. UTC members integrate with
multiple units developing a broad force perspective, and credibility and accessibility with
deployed personnel to function as a force multiplier. Members work primarily in operational
units, developing an integral role in unit missions and challenges. They are are available to
intervene in the few instances when significant medico-psychological readiness impairments
arise. The can deploy independently or with other AFSOC medical and/or operations UTC.

2.4.4. AFSOC Pararescue Forces. Pararescue Specialists (PJs) within AFSOC units are line
combatants with additional trauma management medical capabilities as well as advanced tactical
equipment and skills. Because of their combat skills and training, they are the most appropriate
resource to render trauma medical support in threat environments and increased risk scenarios.
PJs are specifically trained as crew members and for combat surface operations either
independently or in conjunction with other SOF Teams. It is critical that PJs and SOFMEs
maintain interoperability in mission overlap areas, specifically, CASEVAC and en route medical
care. PJs are capable of performing basic CASEVAC. However, the significantly higher level
of medical care provided by SOFME CASEVAC must be considered during mission planning.
Patients under the care of PJs will always be passed to SOFMEs or other higher levels of medical
care as soon as possible. This ensures patients receive increasingly higher levels of medical care
and facilitates keeping PJ assets available to execute the PJ-specific mission.

2.5. Irregular Warfare/Medical Stability Operations (IW/MSO). AFSOC/SG Irregular
Warfare/Medical Stability Operations supports the overall Air Force and AFSOC IW program.
IW is a strategy, not tactics and health care engagement is a tool. It is an area within shaping and
stability operations that is essential to building the PN military and government capacities is
medical and healthcare. The focus of IW missions and operations are on the local population.
The objective is to gain the support of the population for the legitimate government by building
capacity. Capacity building transfers knowledge and skills to individuals and institutions so they
can acquire the long term ability to establish effective policies and deliver competent public
service. By ensuring the population’s security, the government can receive the population’s
                                                                                                 23
support and allegiance and deter the population from seeking out other groups (i.e. insurgents)
who will assure their security. Human security includes physical security, as wells as the
population’s basic health needs (nutrition, water, shelter, and medical). AFSOC will continue to
expand their current medical capabilities and develop new capabilities as needed to allow
AFSOC to perform the IW/ and MSO missions. AFSOC/SG has established two personnel
UTCs (FFQE2 and FFQET) and one equipment UTC (FFQEW) specifically for IW/MSO
missions. AFSOC medical groups are tasked to support the FFQE2 and FFQET UTCs and the
Air Reserve Component medical units (193rd Medical Group/ANG and 919th Medical
Squadron/AFRC) are tasked to support the FFQE2. The FFQEW IW/MSO equipment sets are
being built and will be assigned to the active duty medical groups at Hurlburt Field, FL and
Cannon AFB, NM.

2.6. Medical Foreign Internal Defense/Combat Aviation Advisory (FID/CAA).
International Health Specialist (IHS) personnel are imbedded in the AFSOC Medical Foreign
Internal Defense/Combat Aviation Advisory program. These medical personnel deliver medical
expertise in conjunction with CAA teams and medical training to support theater combatant
commanders during contingencies and wartime deployments facilitating the health, safety and
well being of forces and thereby improving combat effectiveness and interoperability. When
deployed with a CAA element, they can provide medical support to theater combatant
commanders during contingencies & wartime deployments using host-nation or theater assigned
resources. They co-locate with host-nation aviation elements and assess, train, advise/assist
counterpart host-nation personnel in the employment, sustainment and integration of host-nation
medical operations. They may be required to provide medical liaison between U.S. and host-
nation authorities.




                                                                                              24
                                           Chapter 3

                   COMMAND, CONTROL, AND COMMUNICATION

3.1. Deployed Lines of Communication (LOC). AFSOC operational medical personnel fall
under the command and control of AFSOC Line of the Air Force (LAF) commanders. While
they report to a line commander, they are a part of the overall medical capability of the home
station base or deployed operating location. AFSOC medics are responsible to their parent line
units for the welfare of their unit. AFSOC medical personnel may fall under the professional
oversight of a conventional medical commander, i.e., when deployed along side non-SOF
medical support units or when SOFMEs are deployed to a location with an established military
treatment facility. In these instances, the AFSOC senior medical officer (SMO) will establish the
framework for cooperative effort. AFSOC medical personnel will not Change of Operational
Control (CHOP) to support non-SOF medical requirements and will redeploy when SOF
missions and SOF requirements are completed.

Figure 3-1 Joint Force Commander (JFC) Command Structure




3.2. Joint Operations Command and Control (C2) Requirements. When subordinate
AFSOF units deploy to Special Operations Task Force (SOTF’s) or Advance Operating Bases
(AOB), the AFSOC Commander may establish a provisional Air Force Special Operations
Detachment (AFSOD) which is normally subordinate to a theater AFSOC, JSOTF, Joint Special
Operations Air Component Commander (JSOACC) or Joint Task Force (JTF) depending upon
the size and duration of the operation. When a JSOACC is established as a functional
component of a JSOTF, the JSOTF normally exercises OPCON of all assigned and attached joint
SO air assets through the JSOACC. The JSOTF/SG establishes, monitors, and evaluates JSOTF


                                                                                              25
Health Service Support (HSS) for the Commander Joint Special Operations Task Force
(CDRJSOTF) and SOF components. (JP 3-05.1)

3.3. AFSOC UTC Assignment. AFSOC operational medical UTCs are primarily assigned to
AFSOC Operations Support Medicine (OSM) Flights. OSM personnel are UTC specific trained
and equipped to support both the AFSOC flying mission as well as the medical support needs of
deployed SOF units. OSM flights are assigned under Special Operations Support Squadrons
(SOSS) and report through the SOSS chain of command to the Special Operations Group (SOG)
and Special Operations Wing (SOW) commanders as SOF enablers. The SOSS commander
appoints the OSM Flight Commander. The OSM Flight Commander should ideally be an
Aerospace Medicine Specialist (48A3) or specialty trained Flight Surgeon (48R3).

3.3.1. ARC Medical Units. AFSOC UTC’s assigned to the gained Air Force Reserve
Component (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units are coordinated between AFSOC/SG
and AFRC/SG or ANG/SG to insure support to the AFSOC mission while maintaining the parent
Wing medical support capability.

3.4. Medical Command and Control.

3.4.1. Operational Medical C2. Operational medical personnel fall under the command and
control (C2) of Line of the Air Force Commanders of special operations units. At home station
OSM personnel report to the SOSS commander, however, SOFMEs could also fall under the C2
of flying squadron commanders if assigned to that squadron as an SME. In either case, while
deployed OSM personnel report through JSOAC and/or JSOTF commanders to the Theater
Special Operations Commander to the COCOM Commander. AFSOC mission commanders
maintain operational control of AFSOC operational medical personnel in order to support short
notice and/or highly specialized missions and to ensure operational medics have the required
training prior to being tasked to support such operations.

3.4.1.1. SOF Alignment. Doctrinally, AFSOC medics are deployed as part of an AFSOF, Joint
Special Operations Air Component (JSOAC), or Theater Special Operations Command (TSOC)
designated task force.

3.4.1.2. Non-combatants Status. AFSOC medical personnel deploy, in accordance with
(IAW) appropriate Geneva Conventions/Law of Armed Conflict directives, as members of a
USSOCOM or TSOC task force.

3.4.1.3. The AFSOC medics are an operational aeromedical support entity for the special
operations air component rather than a conventional healthcare support element. As such, the
AFSOC medics deploy under the operational control (OPCON) of the AFSOF or JSOAC
commander rather than the TSOC or Joint Special Operations Task Force/Command Surgeon
(JSOTF/SG). In some cases, AFSOC medics may be tasked separately to support a JSOTF/SG
joint medical package. In other cases the SOFME may support both the JSOAC and the JSOTF.
Furthermore, the most experienced deployed SOFME flight surgeon may be tasked to serve as
the JSOTF/SG or JSOAC/SG.

3.4.1.4. Joint Special Operations Air Component Commander (JSOACC) Control. The
JSOACC will normally maintain control of AFSOF, including medical personnel. When
                                                                                           26
AFSOC medical personnel are tasked to perform Joint Force Special Operations Component
Commander (JFSOCC) missions, C2 should be through the JSOACC. Joint Operations C2
requirements: In the joint arena, AFSOC medical personnel will fall under the professional
oversight of the SMO on the base or operating location, or where applicable, the JSOTF/SG.
The JSOTF/SG is appointed by the Commander Joint Special Operations Forces Task Force
(CDRJSOTF) to serve as the special staff officer responsible for establishing, monitoring, or
evaluating joint force health service support for SOF.

3.4.1.5. Medical Leadership. Internal to the SOFME, the Flight Surgeon, regardless of rank, is
ultimately the medical decision-making authority. In the tactical environment, the ranking team
member acts as the tactical team leader for the SOFME.

3.5. Concept of Medical Oversight. It is imperative to the success of SOF medicine that
everyone involved in response and treatment of casualties is trained and proficient to maintain
the stated capabilities within this document. The cornerstone which links capabilities across the
spectrum of SOF medicine is the proper execution of medical oversight and coordination.
Medical oversight must be maintained at home station through joint exercises, daily preventive
medicine programs and certification training program management. These programs will
develop relationships which transition to medical oversight in an operational environment.

3.5.1. Importance of Home Station Medical Oversight. All operational AFSOC medical
personnel are expected to provide and/or enable the best possible aeromedical (encompassing all
aspects of team aerospace programs) and trauma care to SOF warriors in some of the most
austere and remote tactical environments. AFSOC operational medical personnel first and
foremost must be medically current and highly proficient. The most critical mission essential
task of all AFSOC medics is the skilled, practiced and proficient delivery of aeromedical and
trauma care. Furthermore, AFSOC medics must master the medical tactics, techniques,
procedures, and skills necessary to provide the capabilities outlined in Chapter 2. The proper
execution of medical oversight at home station ensures that the AFSOC medic is always well
prepared to deliver appropriate medical care for SOF. Medical oversight must be maintained at
home station to ensure AFSOC medical personnel appropriately participate in clinical medical
care, daily preventive and aerospace medicine programs and certification sustainment training. It
is critical squadron leadership ensures every OSM, special tactics, and aviation advisory medic’s
exposure to patient care opportunities and AFSC specific duties are maximized. Squadron
commanders must foster a unit culture that recognizes the maintenance of practiced medical
skills are critical to mission readiness and effectiveness. Bottom line: AFSOC medical
personnel must always be proficient across the entire spectrum of aerospace medicine and SOF
specific requirements.

3.5.2. Deployed Medical Oversight. Deployed Medical Oversight ensures appropriate medical
care is provided for SOF. It complements but does not substitute for C2. Typically, direct
deployed medical oversight is provided by the JSOTF/SG, and then Component
Commander/Surgeon General (COCOM/SG) assuming those individuals are credentialed
physicians. AFSOC medical personnel may fall under the professional medical oversight of a
conventional medical commander (Expeditionary Medical Support [EMEDS], Combat Support
Hospital [CSH], etc) when SOFMEs are deployed with non-SOF medical support units or when
SOFMEs are deployed to a location with an established military treatment facility. In these
instances, the deployed senior AFSOC medical officer will establish the framework for
                                                                                                27
cooperative effort. However, AFSOC medical personnel will remain under the Operational
Control/Tactical Control (OPCON/TACON) of JSOAC, JSOTF, or TSOC commanders.
AFSOC medical assets personnel will not CHOP to support non-SOF medical requirements.
Furthermore, AFSOC medical personnel will redeploy with AFSOC forces when SOF missions
and SOF requirements are completed.

3.5.3. Establishing Deployed Medical Oversight. It is the senior SOFME or AFSOC medical
representative who maintains responsibility to establish a system for the collection of data from
any and all caregivers rendering care to assigned or attached forces. All mission reports will be
reviewed and lessons learned will be reported through situation report channels. Any SOF
element deployed forward that does not have an embedded medical element will contact the
nearest medical element SME to establish medical oversight coordination. It is recommended
that any Special Operations Task Force maintain liaison relationships to the lead AFSOC
Surgeon within an Area of Responsibility (AOR) to establish medical oversight protocols and
procedures. It is important to understand this is a cooperative concept to ensure the highest
quality of medical care to SOF forces and is not a direct command and control function.

3.5.4. Cooperative Medical Oversight (CMO). Special operations forces are limited by
definition. CMO allows commanders to maintain effective medical coverage with utilizing
forces efficiently. Joint training, standardized practices, and policies enhance the interoperability
of AFSOC medical forces. Commanders must be aware, informed of, and trained to the medical
capabilities needed and how to effectively and efficiently employ these support forces.

3.5.5. Medical Data Collection. The senior deployed SOFME medical officer has the
responsibility to establish a system for the collection of data from all caregivers rendering care to
assigned or attached forces. Medical record keeping will be IAW theater policy. All mission
reports will be reviewed and lessons learned will be reported through JSOAC and/or JSOTF
report channels to the SOFME’s command chain (SOSS, SOG, etc.) with parallel reporting
through the chain of command to 23 AF/SG and AFSOC/SG via the AFSOC Operations Center.
Any AFSOC element deployed forward without an embedded medical element should contact
the nearest SOFME and TSOC/SG to establish medical oversight coordination. The lead
AFSOC surgeon within an AOR should establish liaison relationships with the Special
Operations Task Force and with the Joint Survival Recovery Center (JSRC) to establish medical
oversight protocols and procedures.

3.5.6. Relationship with Theater Medical Authorities. The AFSOC medics have a
relationship with theater medical authorities. Although the AFSOC medics maintain command
relationships through operational chains of command, they adhere to theater medical policies and
requirements as established by the COCOM/SG and TSOC/SG.

3.5.7. Communication Links and Medical Reporting. The AFSOC medics have specific
communication links and medical reporting requirements. AFSOC medical personnel
communicate operational requirements through their OPCON/TACON chain of command and
through the JSOTF/SG. Medical reporting/disease surveillance requirements are accomplished
in accordance with published directives and theater policy. AFSOC medical personnel must be
able to communicate with other AFSOC or SOF medics via secure intra-team radios, with other
tactical SOF elements via secure line-of-sight communications and with SOG, SOW, TSOC, and
AFSOC headquarters via secure beyond-line-of-sight communication as well as via secure and
                                                                                                  28
non-secure internet access. The key to good communications and connectivity with other
elements starts with good pre-deployment mission planning. SOFME personnel should
coordinate deployed communications requirements with SOG communications planners. A
SOFME cannot rely on conventional FOB support for its communications needs. SOFME’s
must be prepared to deploy with communications capability.




                                                                                         29
                                            Chapter 4

                   EMPLOYMENT OF MEDICAL SUPPORT FOR SOF

4.1. Deployment Concept. The AFSOC medical UTC employment concept is to deploy
appropriate UTCs in support of AFSOC/SOF missions. The SOFME is the initial building block
(see Figure 4-1) for AFSOC/SOF medical support. The SOFME may be built upon as the
contingency intensifies or as workload or the threat increases. Additional medical equipment
and supplies can be provided by the RRDK (complete or partial) or SOF Base Medical Support
as the workload, medical requirements or threat dictates. Additionally, AFSOC can readily
increase its medical capability at a staging base by adding AFSOC SOST, SOCCET, and/or SOF
Medical Element Augmentation packages. Conventional medical and/or AE assets may also be
integrated with organic medical capabilities of special operations units to enhance the medical
and AE support to the operation as needed.

4.1.1. UTC Mission Capability Statements (MISCAPS). Each AFSOC UTC has MISCAPS
that support specific operational requirements. Equipment packages are designed for highly
mobile and austere conditions. As mission requirements change, UTC packages (personnel and
equipment) can be tailored (up or down), replicated, or combined with previously deployed
UTCs in order to meet the new requirements. The planner must identify the actual resources
required in order to accomplish mission requirements. In addition to choosing the correct
package(s) to support the requirement, the planner must also strive to maintain smallest deployed
footprint that adequately supports the mission requirement.

4.1.2. Modular Employment Concept. The AFSOC medical UTC employment concept is
based on a modular building block approach that allows for the desired capability to be
employed at the correct time and place in support of SOF missions. AFSOC medical personnel
may be collocated with other JSOTF medical agencies to combine assets to ensure full spectrum
health support for deployed AFSOF or other assigned/attached forces.

4.1.3. Modular UTCs. The AFSOC medical UTCs have been developed utilizing the modular
(building block) concept. This concept allows planners to select specific UTCs that are tailored
to support the requirements of a specific contingency or to support the requirements of a specific
Operational Plan (OPLAN). The SOFME UTC is the fundamental module (building block) for
deployed SOF operations. Other AFSOC medical UTCs (FFQEM, FFQEN, FFQEL, & FFQE8)
augment the FFQEK as required in order to fulfill SOF medical support requirements.

4.1.4. Medical Advanced Echelon (ADVON). AFSOC medics bring unique capabilities to
support the deployed joint SOF commander. SOFME personnel should deploy in advance of
main forces to conduct in-theater site surveys of HN medical facilities, public health, health risk,
and disease surveillance at deployed locations. The ADVON team should identify all medical
assets (including other SOF medics/medical capabilities/PJs) in the AOR and begin to establish
lines of communication. Medical personnel can be sourced for the ADVON from the FFQEK or
FFQE8 medical UTCs or the JSOAC medical staff positions assigned to 9AAHQ UTC. The
9AAHQ UTC is an AFSOC Headquarters UTC that provides the core staff for the theater
AFSOF for contingency and wartime requirements. Although not a medical UTC, three medical
personnel (flight surgeon, medical operations/plans officer, and senior medical
technician/operations noncommissioned officer [NCO]) are assigned to this headquarters UTC.
                                                                                                  30
These medical personnel can serve as the medical staff advisors to the deployed commander and
provide medical planning capability, command and control of the deployed SOF medical assets,
SOF medical oversight with the senior flight surgeon serving as the SMO to the supported
commander. The medical staff can be deployed in total or pared down to meet initial or
recurring operational requirements.

Figure 4-1 AFSOC Building Block Concept



                                                  Crisis Characteristics Drive Medical Response
                                                  Modular Units of Capability:
                                                      – Provide What’s Needed, When Needed
                                                      –   Optimize Resources
                                                      –   Maximize Options for Commanders




                                        SOCCET               SOST               SOF Med Aug


                                            RRDK/CASEVAC                 ATTU


                                                          SOFME




4.2. Advantages. A major benefit derived from the development of AFSOC medical modules is
incremental deployment flexibility. As a result, medical deployment packages are tailored to the
specific task/operation. Furthermore, even the RRDK can be deployed in whole or in part, and
the SOF Medical Kit allows deploying SOFME medics to hand carry the initial medical response
package on any organic aircraft or to palletize the medical kit with other mobility equipment.
Follow-on medical equipment can be transported as airlift permits or by generating a separate
airlift requirement. In essence, AFSOC medical capability can still be deployed even when
airlift is limited.

4.3. Core Concepts of AFSOC Medicine in the Battlespace.

4.3.1. Forward Operating Base/Intermediate Staging Base (FOB/ISB) Base Operating
Support (BOS). The basic building block is the SOFME with tiered supply and equipment
packages that accompany them. These tiers include the SOFME medical backpack, aircraft roll-
packs and RRDK which are the initial building blocks for AFSOC medical support and may be
built upon as the contingency intensifies or as workload increases. The amount of basic care and
clinical oversight responsibilities are based upon a population at risk assessment. The SOFME

                                                                                                  31
augmentation package brings additional BOS assets and expertise in preventive medicine,
medical plans and logistics and limited CBRNE patient decontamination. The number of
SOFME teams deployed will greatly depend on the mission although BOS medical support will
remain constant no matter how many teams are deployed.

4.3.2. Casualty Evacuation (CASEVAC). The SOFME's secondary operational mission is
CASEVAC; stabilize and transport (with en-route medical care) patients from battlefield forward
locations to advanced medical care facilities using vehicles/aircraft of opportunity. The
CASEVAC package and RRDK provide equipment and supplies to perform casualty evacuation
in austere environments. The basic CASEVAC capability of the SOFME can be enhanced with
support from the special operations critical care transport team (SOCCET) however; the SOFME
is trained and equipped to be the first option.

4.3.3. Advanced Surgical/Critical Care and Transport. This capability is met by adding SOF
Surgical Teams (SOSTs) and SOCCETs to provide a far-forward surgical intervention,
stabilization and patient holding and transport capabilities. These teams in combination with
other joint medical support assets can provide a robust critical care capability.

4.4. Casualty and Disease Management in SOF Operations. The SOF mission requires
medical preparation to stabilize injured or seriously ill members while moving them towards
definitive care. This may occur in environments quite distant from acceptable sources of
definitive care and distant from conventional aeromedical evacuation support. AFSOC deployed
capability for management of disease and injury can be characterized by four phases: 1) SABC;
2) initial response; 3) stabilization and treatment; and 4) CASEVAC. Phases two through four
may overlap and occur simultaneously to varying extents, depending on the scenario. If
movement by air is immediately available and/or rendered urgent by the tactical situation,
stabilization may occur during CASEVAC. The SOFME provides casualty and disease
management during SOF operations to stabilize injured or ill patients while moving them
to/towards definitive care. The SOFME is responsible for phases 2 through 4.

4.4.1. PHASE I - Self Aid and Buddy Care (SABC). SABC is the foundation of the medical
care system. Properly trained and equipped non-medical personnel are able to provide initial
lifesaving first aid in the absence of trained medical professionals or assist medical professionals
during a mass casualty situation. SABC is especially critical for AFSOC forces due to the
limited number of AFSOC medics. All AFSOC personnel receive Self-Aid and Buddy Care
training IAW Air Force directives. High risk units complete Tactical Combat Casualty Care
(TCCC).

4.4.2. PHASE II - Initial Response--Special Tactics Pararescue Support. Air Force Special
Operations Command Pararescue personnel (PJs-AFSC 1T2XX) perform advanced battlefield
trauma care and emergency medical treatment while in the performance of special operations
missions. Special Tactics pararescue personnel are specifically trained for combat surface
operations either independently or in conjunction with Special Forces, Combat Control, Rangers,
and Sea-Air-Land (SEAL) Teams. Although they do not hold medical AFSCs, the medical care
rendered by AFSOC Pararescue personnel falls within the professional purview and oversight of
AFSOC/SG, through the 720th Special Tactics Group Surgeon. Additional AFSOC Pararescue
capabilities include:

                                                                                                  32
      Functioning as initial responders in support of far forward personnel recovery operations.
      Conducting casualty collection operations during Direct Action (DA) missions or in
       hostile/denied areas.
      Providing the vital link in the transition process from Personnel Recovery – Combat
       Search and Rescue (PR-CSAR) field missions to the casualty evacuation system.

4.4.2.1. Transload. Pararescue specialists provide the vital link in the transition from direct
actions or PR-CSAR field missions to definitive care platforms. Whenever possible this phase is
rapid and short term. However, when recovery/rescue operations are conducted over large
geographical distances, pararescue resources must be returned to action rapidly, or advanced
medical transport care is required, transition of patients to a CASEVAC mission may have to be
conducted. This transition is defined as a transload and can only be accomplished through
concise pre-coordination with medical and operational planners. Transload operations must be
coordinated and exercised in order to ensure the highest level of patient safety and clinical care.
It is important to note that care must be taken to ensure accurate patient information must be
passed along. It is the PJ team leader who is responsible to ensure that all pertinent patient
information is passed to any subsequent care provider and to appropriate command and control
agencies.

4.4.2.2. Medical Personnel Considerations. In intermediate situations where tactical
extraction and initial stabilization are necessary under high threat but less than active combat
conditions, PJs in combination with SOFME assets can be used to provide greater monitoring
and treatment capability and would provide a high level of medical capability immediately to the
casualties. Environments where extended transport time (over two hours) are expected or there
is known disease component along with the trauma or other complicating medical factors may be
part of the injury scenario, SOFME and/or SOCCET assets should be considered.

4.4.3. PHASE III - Casualty Stabilization and Disease Treatment. Casualty stabilization is
aimed at achieving a stable airway, control of hemorrhage, treated shock, and splinted fractures.
Stabilization begins with the first responders and continues as the casualty is transferred to the
care of the SOF Medical Element flight surgeons and technicians and moved towards definitive
care. Serious disease requiring evacuation is stabilized and moved in the same fashion.
Stabilization can become a prolonged phase lasting over 24 hours if host-nation care is
unacceptable and strategic aeromedical evacuation is not immediately available. Independent
duty medical technicians and flight surgeons in the SOFME manage less serious disease
amenable to treatment in the forward setting.

4.4.3.1. Stabilization Surgery and Critical Care Treatment. Stabilization surgery, performed
by the Special Operations Surgical Team (SOST), is aimed at achieving a stable airway,
controlling hemorrhage/internal bleeding, and stabilizing orthopedic injuries. The Special
Operations Critical Care Evacuation Team (SOCCET) provides medical management of pre and
post-op/stabilized patients (sometimes for prolonged periods of time -72 hours) and will be
responsible for preparing and transporting these patients on CASEVAC or conventional AE
missions. Conventional AE mission will require patient regulation through the Patient Movement
Requirements Center (PMRC) assigned to the operational AOR.




                                                                                                33
4.4.4. PHASE IV - CASEVAC. CASEVAC is defined as the non-regulated movement of
patients from either the point of injury or a transload site to a point where they enter the
regulated patient movement system or definitive medical care system (see Figure 4-2). Special
operations security considerations and mission constraints may preclude the establishment of
traditional AE and medical regulating systems far forward. AFSOC has organized, trained, and
equipped SOFME and SOCCET assets to meet this requirement. AFSOC medics will provide
definitive circulation and airway management (i.e., hemorrhage control, fluid and blood
resuscitation, and ventilator management) as well as detailed medical monitoring and
administration of medications during transport. Responsibility for the planning and coordination
of CASEVAC and AE of SOF rests with the supported commander and/or joint special
operations task force (JSOTF) surgeon. AFSOC has the following capabilities to support
CASEVAC forward of established AE systems and depicted in Figures 4-2 below:

4.4.4.1. PJ/SOF Medic Interoperability. Special Tactics PJs are line combatant rescue
specialists with medical trauma management training and capabilities. It is critical that PJs and
SOFMEs maintain interoperability in mission overlap areas, specifically, CASEVAC and en
route medical care. PJs are capable of performing basic CASEVAC; however, the significantly
higher level of medical care provided by SOFME CASEVAC must be considered during mission
planning. Patients under the care of PJs will always be passed to SOFMEs or other higher levels
of medical care as soon as possible. This ensures patients receive increasingly higher levels of
medical care and facilitates keeping PJ assets available to execute the PJ-specific mission.

4.4.4.2. Transload Operations. The SOFME has the expertise and advanced medical
capabilities to receive casualty hand-offs from ground combatants, PJs, Special Forces (SF) and
SEAL medics. This transition/medical transloading may occur at a helicopter landing zone
(HLZ) or remote contingency airstrip, but can occur at any location where SOF aircraft can land.
Medical transloads are most effectively accomplished through precise pre-coordination with
mission planners. Thus, medical transload operations must be a dedicated aspect of every pre-
deployment CASEVAC planning consideration.

4.4.4.3. Risk Management. Since AFSOC medical assets are limited, task force surgeons and
commanders must carefully consider available resources when assigning personnel to
CASEVAC roles and other contingency taskings forward of the ISB. Appropriate risk
management processes must be considered when determining the optimal utilization of the
SOFME. Appropriate tailoring of force size and composition during the predeployment planning
phases will greatly assist in ensuring availability of the required medical resources to meet
operational requirements.

4.4.4.4. Medical Mission Constraints. AFSOC aircraft configuration and mission profiles
limit the extent of medical care which can be provided during flight from an objective area to the
ISB/FSB where more definitive care is available. Considering the constraints of the tactical
environment, the following guidance is provided in order to select appropriate AFSOC medical
crewmembers for CASEVAC missions:

       4.4.4.5.1. SOFME flight surgeons and/or IDMTs or SOCCET personnel are specifically
       trained and may be tasked to support CASEVAC missions, as determined by the
       designated deployed SOF medical commander and the mission commander.

                                                                                                34
       4.4.4.6.2. IDMTs should be the first choice and option when planning and executing any
       CASEVAC mission. When only one physician is available at the ISB/FSB, commanders
       must evaluate the risk and mission requirements in order to determine whether the
       physician should be utilized onboard the CASEVAC aircraft or at the ISB/FSB.

       4.4.4.7.3. There are several scenarios where utilization of a physician or physician
       extender may be particularly advantageous in supporting CASEVAC mission
       requirements. These include scenarios where the increased level of care provided by a
       physician can reasonably be expected to improve the outcome above that of an enlisted
       medic, PJ or physician extender. Additionally, medical support requirements for
       ―precious cargo‖ missions may be such that the medical care expected/required exceeds
       the medical skills/abilities of enlisted medics, PJs or physician extenders.

4.5. Casualty Movement. AFSOC OSM flight personnel are trained in contingency AE
procedures and are qualified to provide casualty evacuation support. If the tactical situation
permits and with the approval of the senior AFSOC line commander, AFSOC medical flight
personnel can provide casualty evacuation support on AFSOC weapon systems or other
opportune aircraft from secured objective locations to SOF operating bases.

4.5.1. Aircraft Familiarization. OSM flight personnel have the capability to configure AFSOC
aircraft and other aircraft of opportunity and provide en route medical stabilization support and
intervention until a transition to the established conventional medical and AE systems can be
accomplished.

4.5.2. Limited Medical Assets. Since AFSOC medical assets are limited, commanders must
carefully consider available resources when assigning AFSOC medical personnel to CASEVAC
roles and other contingency taskings forward of the AFSOC force bed-down. Sound risk
management processes must be considered when determining which is the best resource to
provide this capability. Appropriate planning and tailoring of force size during the
predeployment planning phases will greatly assist in ensuring availability of the required medical
resources to meet operational requirements.

4.5.3. SOFME Use for CASEVAC. Utilization of the SOFME for CASEVAC missions
provides an additional medical capability for deployed SOF forces. Operational security
considerations, tactical considerations and mission constraints often preclude the establishment
of traditional AE and medical regulating systems for SOF. Consequently, SOFME personnel are
trained in contingency SOF CASEVAC procedures and are qualified to provide casualty
evacuation support. If the tactical situation permits, the SOFME can provide CASEVAC
support onboard SOF aircraft or other opportune aircraft. The SOFME has the capability to
configure AFSOC or opportune aircraft IOT provide en route ATLS/ACLS medical care until
the patient(s)/casualty(ies) can be transitioned to a higher level of medical care and/or the
conventional AE system. The utilization of SOFME CASEVAC leverages AFSOC’s ability to
recover and provide medical care for injured/ill personnel.




                                                                                                 35
Figure 4-2 CASEVAC Process from Point of Injury to Definitive Care

                           CASUALTY EVACUATION (CASEVAC)


                          CASEVAC– PJs/SEAL/SF/SOFME




            POINT OF INJURY
           Initial stabilization/extraction                                FOB
                                                                  SOST Resuscitative Surgery
      POINTPJsOF  INJURY
               / SEAL / SF MEDIC                                     SOCCET Critical Care




                                                                                         CASEVAC– SOFME / SOCCET
                                  Transload - SOFME/SOCCET



          Non-Permissive Environment                   Semi-Permissive Environment

                                      Permissive Environment




      P

                                                                            MOB
                                                                     Follow-on treatment
            MAJOR THEATER HOSPITAL                                     AE Stabilization

                                   AEROMEDICAL EVACUATION (AE)




                                                                                                                   36
                                            Chapter 5

                               PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS

5.1. SOF Operational Environment Medical Planning Considerations.

5.1.1. Comprehensive Medical Planning. The SOF casualty care system begins with pre-
deployment activities that include identification of the PAR and the medical requirements and
medical intelligence gathering required to support the PAR. The AFSOC planner translates the
requirements into a plan by identifying HN medical facility capabilities, coordinating support
with the AE system, and coordinating with joint Health Service Support agencies or deployed
medical assets.

5.1.2. Medical Intelligence. AFSOC medical planners have access to multiple intelligence
resources and gathering methods, to include Public Health resources, National Center for
Medical Intelligence (NCMI), Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), and coordination with
supported theater/JSOTF medical planners.

5.1.3. Medical Integration. AFSOC medical forces are not organically equipped to perform
extended medical operations or medical logistics support. Situations may mandate the close
integration, coordination, and cooperation between AFSOC medical personnel and those within
the established operational theater. As mission requirements allow, and with the
approval/coordination of the AFSOC line commander, AFSOC medical forces will integrate with
other deployed medical resources to maximize the overall base medical readiness posture.

5.2. AFSOC Interface with Medical Contingency Ground Support Systems.

5.2.1. Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System. This system includes the
SMEs and independent duty medical technicians (IDMTs) assigned to operational units or
remote sites, and represents the cornerstone of medical support to Aerospace Expeditionary
Force (AEF) forces deployed in any worldwide contingency. Any assigned or attached unit to a
Joint Task Force which owns a medic will coordinate with the Senior SOFME deployed to the
assigned AOR. Medical oversight and coordination are required to ensure efficient use of
limited medical assets in theater.

5.2.2. AFSOC Medical and EMEDS Integration. It is imperative that all AFSOC medical
personnel and planners understand the capabilities inherent with each component, and
specifically the HSS capability available during each phase of the EMEDS buildup. This will
typically be the first interface point with medical units possessing enhanced clinical capabilities
and inpatient beds. Components of the Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System
are utilized to provide essential medical/dental care, deferring definitive care as dictated by
theater medical Concept of Operations (CONOPS). (Refer to AFTTP 3-42.7)

5.2.3. SOF Casualty Management. Once admitted to the medical treatment facility, SOF
casualties are not always managed, regulated, or evacuated similar to conventional forces. SOF
personnel normally have a separate evacuation policy to prevent personnel with critical
specialties from being evacuated out of theater. SOF missions are often politically sensitive,
there may be a requirement to safeguard the patient's identity, to prevent any compromise of the
                                                                                                 37
unit's presence or jeopardize the operational mission. If requirements to safeguard patients'
identities exist, prior coordination with the JTF/SG should occur to determine appropriate AE
procedures.

5.3. Interface with the Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) System.

5.3.1. Movement of SOF Casualties. Evacuation procedures employed are dependent on the
special operations mission and the presence of a developed HSS system. The techniques,
procedures, and equipment used to evacuate and/or extract casualties are consistent with the
nature of SOF missions both principal and collateral. For additional information on evacuation
procedures based on particular SOF missions, reference Joint Publication 4-02.2, Joint Tactics,
Techniques and Procedures for Patient Movement in Joint Operations, specifically Chapter IV
"Special Operations Patient Movement."

5.3.2. AE/SOF Planning Considerations. Planning should also address the interface with the
AE system for patient movement requirements. AE for SOF may be difficult because of far
forward operating locations; however, if operationally directed, AE may be tasked to go as far
forward as there is a suitable airstrip. Operations at remote locations in immature theaters not
served by the strategic AE system require close coordination between the supporting Air Force
component command and joint medical planners. AFSOC designated AE elements may be
collocated with organic medical capabilities of special operations units to facilitate the AE
process. It is important to note that patient movement planning is complicated by the nature of
special operations missions that require operational security measures precluding immediate
patient movement to eliminate the signature of forces in sensitive areas or compromise mission
accomplishment. AFTTP 3-42.5 may also be used as a reference.

5.3.3. AFSOC AE Planning. AFSOC does not possess organic conventional AE capability and
must identify requirements for and obtain conventional AE support. As the air component
surgeon to USSOCOM, AFSOC/SG has the responsibility for identifying and coordinating SOF
AE requirements. Contingency planning should include the movement of patients from forward
or remote areas back to military or HN’s medical treatment facilities that have the capabilities to
provide the appropriate level and standard of care. Additionally, contingency planning should
address the interface with the conventional theater and inter-theater AE system for patient
movement requirements.

5.3.3.1. SOF/AE Integration. Integration of SOF and the AE system is very likely.
Contingency and crisis action planning match SOF missions to SOF and conventional AE
capabilities. SOF missions require a flexible response. Therefore, conventional AE units tasked
to support SOF missions may occasionally be required to modify or adjust their operational
concepts to meet SOF mission requirements. An AE planner may be an active participant in the
planning process. The JSOTF surgeon and medical planner will develop and coordinate all
patient movement support requirements with AE planners. Conventional AE units need not
obtain SOF type equipment. Proficiency in their Mission Essential Tasks List (METLs) and
UTC MISCAPS will be the basis for developing roles and missions but adjusted if required to
support SOF operations.

5.3.3.2. AE/SOF Doctrinal Differences. Doctrinal differences from SOF and AE will be
addressed in the planning process. SOF does not utilize patient movement items (PMI) assets
                                                                                                38
and provides limited documentation on casualties. Predetermined PMI may need to be placed at
FSB and ISBs. There is no medical regulating of patients from forward areas and patients may
be moved to pre-designated MTFs. SOF medical equipment is limited and may not move with
the patient. Little or no medications will accompany patients. AE UTCs may require paring and
tailoring to support SOF missions. The concept of operations can be fluid until the mission
execution point.

5.3.3.3. AE Availability. In a major contingency, conventional AE will be available at either an
FSB or ISB, depending on the scenario. In a SOF-only operation (or exercise), conventional AE
may not be available. In these instances, the deployed SG is left with three options: 1) hold the
casualty at the deployed location and wait for conventional AE; 2) use HN medical support; or 3)
continue transport via SOF opportune aircraft to a location where link with the conventional AE
system is available. In some scenarios, AE elements could be tasked to deploy along with SOF
medical assets to support SOF patient movement requirements. The patient movement option
chosen will depend on the condition of the casualty as well as the availability of both SOF and
conventional aircraft for casualty transport.

5.4. Mission Planning.

5.4.1. Medical Planner. Mission planning is paramount to the successful execution of
exercises, deployments, and operations. Due to the diversity of the geographic areas of
responsibility that SOF transgresses and the customers that AFSOC supports, each OSM flight
has a designated medical planner to ensure the needs of the mission are met. The OSM flight
planner coordinates the SOF casualty care system, logistics, and operational support with
headquarters, joint, and theater planners. PJ team leaders play a vital role in operational planning
and can offer guidance to medical planner as to care available, transport options, operational
environment and ongoing operations.

5.4.2. Provision of En Route Care in the Tactical Environment. AFSOC aircraft conditions
and mission profiles limit the extent of medical care that can be provided during flight from an
objective area to the ISB/FOB where more definitive care is available. Given the constraints of
the tactical environment, specific consideration should be given when planning the crew for
CASEVAC missions.

5.4.2.1. CASEVAC Support. Physicians, physician extenders, and medical technicians may be
tasked to support CASEVAC missions, as determined by the deployed medical commander and
the mission commander. EMT-P trained medical technicians are normally the primary medics
tasked to support CASEVAC missions.

5.4.2.2. Operational Clinical Oversight. There are several scenarios where utilization of a
physician or physician extender may be advantageous in supporting CASEVAC mission
requirements. These include situations where the physician/physician extender can clinically
improve the casualties' condition beyond medical technician capabilities. Also, medical support
requirements for "precious cargo" missions may be such that the medical care expected and
required exceeds available capability.




                                                                                                 39
5.4.2.3. Loss of Forward Medical Support. When only one physician is available at the
ISB/FOB, commanders must consider where the greatest capability is needed either on the
CASEVAC aircraft or at the ISB/FOB.

5.4.3. Non-combatant Assets. Medical personnel and equipment are non-combatant assets.
However, AFSOC operational medical personnel train in small unit tactics, weapons use, and all
appropriate combat skills for the SOF environment. They deploy armed to defend themselves
and their patients according to mission requirements. AFSOC medics can be incorporated into a
special operations unit without degrading the capability of the operation. Overall security for the
AFSOC medics and their patients is the responsibility of the forces securing the ISB/FOB or the
supported team. Medical site assets and patients will be protected as a controlled area in
accordance with AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program. Medical personnel
should never be placed in an offensive role.




                                                                                                40
                                             Chapter 6

     MEDICAL LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND WAR RESERVE MATERIEL (WRM)

6.1. Medical Logistics Support for Special Operations UTCs and Medical WRM.

6.1.1. Purpose. AFSOC WRM assemblages provide extensive medical supplies and equipment
needed to support combat casualty initial treatment, transport, and the prevention of disease and
non-battle injuries (DNBI). All AFSOC WRM assemblages are packed to a standardized
allowance standard (AS) to ensure interoperability between AFSOC medical personnel.

6.1.2. Deployment Planning. During initial deployment planning, theater medical planning
guidance generally requires units to deploy with a 30-day package of medical supplies. For
AFSOC units, the deployment load will vary based on mission requirements and operational
constraints. To determine medical logistic requirements, medical planners must consider the
mission and its duration, the availability of supplies at the mission location, and the alternate
medical supply sources available in the event the conventional supply system breaks down.

6.1.3. AFSOC Medical Logistics. AFSOC medical forces currently possess limited logistical
support capabilities. In many SOF operations the nature of the operation (covert, short-term,
etc.) will not allow or require a resupply mechanism to be established. During
Covert/Clandestine Operations adequate medical supplies and equipment are deployed with
AFSOC medical units to ensure capability exists to support operational requirements. When
resupply is required, SOF medical planners establish resupply through a variety of mechanisms
to include: (1) support from a host medical treatment facility; (2) in-country embassy or
Military Assistance Group (MAG); and (3) home station or main operating base. When
deployed in support of a major regional conflict, AFSOC medical logistics support is provided
by the conventional HSS system. Prior coordination with host medical treatment facility or
JTF/SG will help ensure adequate medical logistics support is available.

6.1.4. Medical Planning. Medical involvement in all phases of mission planning is essential for
mission success. AFSOC logisticians working with line and medical planners have the
requirement base to plan and predict the acquisition and flow of supplies and maintenance of
WRM that special operations medics will require. Their knowledge allows essential strategies to
be formulated to ensure adequate equipment and supplies for the deployed SOF medical assets.
Thus medical resupply requirements are driven entirely by the planned mission. Consequently,
such operations may require particularly careful coordination to ensure resupply when and if
necessary. AFSOC medical logistics are normally coordinated through the Combined Joint
Special Operations Air Component/Surgeon General (CJSOAC/SG) medical plans officer and/or
JSOTF/SG medical plans officer and provided by the nearest conventional medical logistics unit
if the teams are in a mature theatre. If the AFSOC medical assets are located in an immature
theatre, the team will reach back to home station for resupply or will coordinate resupply using
local or regional resources when appropriate. Otherwise, the TSOC/SG office is responsible for
the medical logistics supply chain. Cost estimates should be provided in the preliminary
planning process to ensure reconstitution of all AFSOC WRM assets. Resupply must be
addressed in the predeployment planning process. AFSOC medical supply costs are funded by
the supported unit(s), and reimbursed when possible from operations, exercise, or contingency
funds.
                                                                                                    41
 6.1.4.1. Medical Logistic Objectives. Logistic objectives are to reduce the physical footprint
for deployment without degradation of medical capability, maintain portability, and provide a
logistics support system to ensure responsive sustainment. In many SOF operations, the short
term, covert or low-visibility nature of the operation will not permit the establishment of a
standard resupply mechanism.

6.1.4.2. Medical Logistics Planning. When deployed in conjunction with AFSOC equipment
UTCs, AFSOC medical assets are normally capable of providing medical support to a deployed
AFSOC unit for up to 30 days without resupply. Consequently, such operations may require
particularly careful coordination to ensure resupply when and if necessary. SOF medical
logistics are normally coordinated through the SOF medical plans officer and are provided by the
nearest conventional medical logistics unit if the SOF medics are deployed to a mature theatre.
If the SOF medics are located in an immature theatre, the team will coordinate resupply using
local or regional resources when appropriate. Predetermined PMI may need to be placed at
forward or intermediate staging bases.

6.1.5. Reconstitution. All AFSOC medical WRM packages are maintained in a "ready to
deploy" configuration. Medical supply and equipment packages returned to the unit following
deployment will be reconstituted in order to meet required response times in Designed
Operational Capability (DOC) statements. UTCs must be maintained to 90% readiness posture
for critical items.

6.1.6. Rebuilding. Documentation of medical supplies and equipment used/expended during
any training or operational deployment will be maintained by AFSOC medical personnel to
assist in the recovery of after-the-fact (ATF) funding as required. Details and specifics of
logistical support will be provided and will be identified in applicable base support plans.
Established AFSOC medical assemblage allowance standards will be modified through
recommendations of the pilot units, as appropriate. AFSOC medical assemblages are
specifically designed for rapid load planning, deployment, employment, and reconstitution.

6.2. Medical Supplies and Equipment Operations.

6.2.1. Initial Deployment. Theater medical planning guidance generally requires units to
deploy with a 30-day package of medical supplies. The initial deployment load for AFSOC units
will vary based on mission requirements and operational constraints. To determine medical
logistic requirements, medical planners must consider the mission and its duration, the
availability of supplies at the mission location, and the alternate medical supply sources available
in the event the conventional supply system breaks down. AFSOC medical forces currently
possess limited logistical support capabilities. AFSOC medical units have medical stock record
accounts at home station, but may depend on local base/host medical treatment facilities for
various types of medical logistics support, linen control (as applicable), and biomedical
equipment repair support.

6.2. 2. Re-supply. In many SOF operations the nature of the operation (covert, short-term, etc.),
will not allow or require a resupply mechanism to be established.



                                                                                                 42
6.2. 3. Sustainment Operations. When deployed in support of a major regional conflict,
AFSOF medical logistics support is provided by the conventional HSS system (reference AFTTP
3-42.8, Medical Logistics and Blood Support Operations). Prior coordination with host medical
treatment facility or JTF /SG will help ensure adequate medical logistics support is available.

6.2.4. SOF Medical Logistics Supply Chain Essentials. Medical logistics personnel must be
familiar with the following supply chain methods and programs to ensure SOF forces maintain
adequate supplies for long periods of time: Government Purchase Cards (GPC) programs,
Theater Lead Agent for Medical Materiel (TLAMM), Department of Defense Acquisition Code
(DODAC), Area of Responsibility (AOR) funding programs, Theater equipment Loaner
Replacement and Repair Center (LRRC).

6.2.5. Patient Movement Items (PMI). The PMI supports in-transit patient care capability
without removing equipment from patients or depleting forward medical units of critical medical
equipment and supplies. The system exchanges like-kind equipment without degrading
capabilities, and provides prompt recycling of PMI. The system provides a seamless in-transit
visibility equipment management process from initial entry into AE to the patient's final
destination.

6.2.5.1. PMI Support. The PMI system UTCs deploy in support of and are collocated at key
interface points to provide an initial capability, to sustain AE operations, and to minimize
equipment turnaround time. Equipment will be managed, and supplied through the PMI centers
and joint transportation and logistics systems. The originating health care facility is responsible
to provide the PMI required and to support the patient during evacuation. Services should plan,
program, and secure equipment that is air certifiable to use in deployable platforms. In a
contingency, the PMI cell may be collocated with the TLAMM, normally at a robust air and
logistics hub.

6.2.5.2. PMI Program Oversight. While the PMI program is mandated by the Assistant
Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs), the USAF/SG has oversight responsibility, and Air
Mobility Command (AMC)/SG has program management responsibility. MAJCOM and theater
surgeons (TSG) are executive managers of PMI within their areas; i.e., AMC/SG, Pacific Air
Force (PACAF/SG), USAFE/SG.

6.2.6. Theater Lead Agents for Medical Materiel. In overseas theaters, these organizations
have historically included Army medical materiel centers (MMC) that provide comprehensive
medical logistics support to both institutional MTFs and contingency operations. Defense
Logistics Agency (DLA) recognized the value of these theater medical logistics organizations
leading to their designations as TLAMM. Currently, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
(CJCS), on recommendation of the DLA Director, has approved TLAMM designations for each
Geographic Combatant Command (GCC) as follows:




                                                                                                 43
   Combatant Command          Designated Theater Lead Agent for Medical Materiel (TLAMM)
       USEUCOM
                                   US Army Medical Materiel Center – Europe (USAMMCE)
      USAFRICOM
      USCENTCOM              US Army Medical Materiel Center–Southwest Asia (USAMMC-SWA)
       USPACOM
         USFK                      US Army Medical Materiel Center – Korea (USAMMC-K)
      Outside USFK                         18th Medical Group (Kadena Air Base)
     USNORTHCOM                                 US Army Medical Command
     USSOUTHCOM                Air Force Medical Operations Agency, Medical Logistics Division

Theater Lead Agents support the GCC and its Service components, as well as DLA, in planning
and execution of medical supply chain support and provide a single point of contact for medical
logistics support to theater medical forces.

6.2.7. Blood and Blood Products. The Armed Services Blood Program is a DoD level function
governed by Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 6480.4, Armed Services Blood Program
(ASBP) Operational Procedures. Other key references are, Air Force TTP 3-42.711, Blood
Support Operations, AFI 44-105, Air Force Blood Program, AFJH 44-152, Armed Services
Blood Program, Joint Blood Program Handbook, the Special Operations Forces medical
handbook, and the theater specific blood program guidance are key references for SOF medics in
managing and administering blood and blood products in a deployed environment. AFSOC
operational medical units will establish local policies and procedures for use, storage, and re-
supply of blood and blood products. AFSOC operational medical units will incorporate the use
of blood and blood products in their training.

6.3. Integration. Integration of the deployed AFSOC medical assets with other SOF
component medical teams, as well with the line special operations units is necessary to facilitate
required expeditionary combat support (ECS) and, AE support.

6.3.1. ECS Support. ECS requirements may include, but are not limited to, power, messing,
water, fuel, billeting, transportation, communication, logistics, security, medical oxygen and
operational funds.

6.3.2. AE Support. Rapid patient evacuation is essential to mission success. SOST and
SOCCET equipment and supplies are interoperable with critical care air-transport teams
(CCATT) in-flight kits and EMEDS assets. However, the teams are not capable of furnishing
medical supplies and equipment to patients during the conventional AE process when not
accompanying the patient. Medical involvement in all phases of patient movement mission
planning is essential for mission success. Early CASEVAC to definitive care will enhance
patient survivability and mission success. Integration with the conventional AE will improve
patient survivability.

6.4. Ground Transportation Consideration. AFSOC medics at ISB/FOBs require vehicles
that can function as patient transport vehicles/ambulances, medical response vehicles and to
move medical equipment as needed.



                                                                                                 44
6.5. Additional support. The medical planning officer/NCO interfaces with TSOC and
AFSOC staff to plan for and coordinate medical readiness, medical logistics, and mission
planning needs of the AFSOC medical assets.




                                                                                           45
                                           Chapter 7

                                          TRAINING

7.1. Objective. The overall objective of SOF medical training programs is to develop and
maintain a high state of mission readiness of AFSOC medical personnel for rapid employment
across the spectrum of SOF operational requirements. AFSOC medical personnel interface with
conventional, nonconventional, joint, coalition medical forces and conventional patient
movement systems as dictated by circumstances and requirement. AFSOC medical personnel
must be interoperable with all other SOF medical personnel. AFSOC medics must be trained to
perform their roles at night, during low-light or blackout conditions, in environmental extremes
and in combat environments. The overarching goal is for AFSOC mission commanders to have
the operational control of the medical assets required to support short notice and/or highly
specialized missions and to ensure these personnel have the required training prior to being
tasked to support such operations.

7.2. Responsibilities. AFSOC/SG is lead command designee for training course requirements,
training tasks, and coordinating the development and publication of SOF medical training
standards. AFSOC/SGPO is the OPR for clinical and operational medicine issues that impact
non-aerospace medicine deployed medical forces while AFSOC/SGP is the OPR for all
aerospace medicine issues. The SGP represents AFSOC at the Pararescue Medical Oversight
Advisory Board (PJ MOAB) to address clinical and operational medicine issues that impact
pararescue forces.

7.3. Medical Training Requirements. AFSOC medical training is tailored to each member’s
specialty. The overall objective of SOF medical training programs is to develop and maintain a
high state of mission readiness of AFSOC medical personnel for rapid employment across the
spectrum of SOF operational requirements. AFSOC medics interface with conventional,
nonconventional, joint and coalition medical forces as dictated by circumstances and
requirement. AFSOC medical personnel must be interoperable with all other SOF medical
personnel. Personnel who are selected for SOFME assignments must be highly motivated,
intelligent, adaptable, physically fit and extremely well-trained. AFSOC medics must be trained
to perform their roles at night, during low-light or blackout conditions, in environmental
extremes and in combat environments.

7.3.1. Joint Medical Training. Successful joint interoperability is achieved through joint
medical training standards. Special Operations Combat Medic (SOCM) is the current standard
(as outlined in USSOCOM Directive 40-2, Medical Service) which all component medics and
pararescue personnel use as a baseline.

7.3.2. Air Force Medical Service (AFMS) Medical Training. AFSOC medical personnel will
train and maintain medical readiness skills, clinical currency, medical licensure and specialty
credentials IAW AFI 41-106, Unit Level Management of Medical Readiness Programs, AFI 44-
119, Medical Quality Operations, AFSOCI 48-101, Special Operations Aerospace Medical
Operations and USSOCOM Directive 350-29, Special Operations Forces Medical Training, and
other AFSOC guidance. Metric requirements for tracking specific training will be provided by
AFSOC/SG.

                                                                                              46
7.3.3. AFSOC Medical Training. The AFSOC medical training program is designed to meet
the unique challenges of special operations duty. There is considerable resource investment
required to fully train AFSOC medical personnel and then maintain a "mission ready" status. All
AFSOC medical personnel will meet all training requirements outlined in AFSOCI 48-101,
Aerospace Medical Operations. Medical units will track and report training status in accordance
with AFI 41-106, AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System, and other AFSOC
guidance. Metric requirements for tracking specific training line items will be provided by
AFSOC/SG.

7.3.4. UTC-specific Training. AFSOC medical personnel assigned to deployable UTCs may
have additional training requirements in order to provide all capabilities as per MISCAPS as well
as to ensure complete familiarity with UTC equipment and supplies. These additional training
requirements are outlined in AFSOCI 48-101, Aerospace Medical Operations. Medical units
will track and report training status in accordance with AFI 41-106, AFI 10-201, and other
AFSOC guidance. Metric requirements for tracking specific training line items will be provided
by AFSOC/SG.

7.3.5. Operational Training. AFSOC medical personnel are expected to operate effectively
across a variety of austere, far-forward scenarios as well as in the airborne environment on
AFSOC and other opportune SOF aircraft. The requirements for training include advanced
survival training, advanced weapons training, night operations training, small unit tactics, aircraft
emergency procedures, egress training and use of aircraft emergency equipment. Additionally,
AFSOC medical personnel must be trained to meet USSOCOM interoperability requirements.

7.3.6. Pararescue Forces Guidance. All pararescue forces will meet the training requirements
as outlined in the Pararescue (1T2X1) Career Field Education and Training Plan, AFI 16-1202,
Pararescue Operations, Techniques and Procedures, AFSOCI 16-1201 and AFSOCI 16-1202.
PJ forces will track and report training status in accordance with AFI 10-201, and other AFSOC
guidance.

7.4. Credentials. AFSOC medical personnel must fulfill all medical credentialing requirements
IAW USAF and home station medical group credentialing requirements.

7.5. Recruitment. Recruitment of AFSOC medical personnel must take into consideration the
nature of the SOF mission. Candidates must be highly motivated; have a proclivity for the
mental and physical challenges associated with AFSOC operational medic duties; willingly
accept a high operations tempo that has the potential to interfere with personal interests (e.g.,
family life); be prepared to tolerate environmental extremes and substandard living conditions;
accept a level of physical risk greater than that faced by conventional medical forces; function
effectively despite circadian disruption; possess the interpersonal skills needed to integrate with
SOF. Candidates must also be able to meet rigorous training requirements as delineated in this
chapter and AFSOCI 48-101.




                                                                                                  47
                                          Chapter 8

                                   COMMUNICATIONS

8.1. Medical Communications. AFSOC medical personnel must be able to communicate with
other SOFME members via secure intra-team radios, with other tactical SOF elements via secure
line-of-sight communications and with SOG, SOW, TSOC, and AFSOC headquarters via secure
beyond-line-of-sight communication as well as via secure and non-secure internet access. The
key to good communications and connectivity with other elements starts with good pre-
deployment mission planning. AFSOC medical personnel should coordinate deployed
communications requirements with SOG communications planners. AFSOC medics cannot rely
on conventional FOB support for its communications needs and must be prepared to deploy with
communications capability.

8.2. Intra-team communications. The primary intra-team communications mechanism is the
Multi-band Inter/Intra Team Radio (MBITR) system. Additionally, for emergencies, the team
should have access to Iridium phones and local cellular phones. Given the frequent requirement
to provide medical care at multiple sites while deployed, each AFSOC medic may require a cell
phone as well as a MBITR.

8.3. Line-of-sight communications. In general, AFSOC medics use the aircraft radios and/or
the supported team’s radios. However, they may require line-of-sight radios if working
independently or with a small team. During CASEVAC missions AFSOC medical personnel
must have the capability to communicate with the CASEVAC aircrew from aid stations or
medical facilities that are not necessarily adjacent to the runway during CASEVAC missions.

8.4. Beyond-line-of-sight communications. Normally, the AFSOC medics use aircraft or the
supported team’s satellite communications (SATCOM). However, they may require organic
SATCOM radios in special situations such as when working independently or with a small team.
Standard operating procedure is to maintain SATCOM connectivity with higher headquarters.

8.5. Internet access. To maintain planning capacity, the AFSOC medics must have access to
Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) for email and portal access. Due to clinical
and preventive medical requirements, they must also have access to Non-secure Internet Protocol
Router Network (NIPRNET).




                                               CHARLES B. GREEN
                                               Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                               Surgeon General




                                                                                            48
                                      Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFDD 3-05, Special Operations, 17 September 2010
AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System, 13 April 2006
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 8 October 2009
AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Program Management, 1 July 2011
AFI 44-105, Air Force Blood Program, 1 October 2007
Air Force TTP 3-42.5, Aeromedical Evacuation (AE), November 2003
Air Force TTP 3-42.8, Medical Logistics and Blood Support Operations, 5 January 2004
Air Force TTP 3-42.61, Special Operations Forces (SOF) Medical Element Augmentation, 1
February 2008
Air Force TTP 3-42.62, Special Operations Forces (SOF) Operational Psychology, 23 January
2008
Air Force TTP 3-42.63, Special Operations Forces Physiology, In coordination
Air Force TTP 3-42.64, Special Operations Forces (SOF) Medical Element, 23 September 2009
Air Force TTP 3-42.65, Special Operations Surgical Team (SOST) and Special Operations
Critical Care Transport Team (SOCCT), 1 May 2010
Air Force TTP 3-42.7, Aerospace Medical contingency Ground Support System, 24 August 2001
Air Force TTP 3-42.711, Medical Frozen Blood Product Team Medical Expeditionary Blood
Transhipment System, 19 November 2007
AFSOCI 48-101, Aeromedical Special Operations, 15 June 2009
AFJH 44-152, Technical Manual Armed Services Blood Program, Joint Blood Program
Handbook, January 1998
DoD Instruction 6480.4, Armed Services Blood Program (ASBP) Operational Procedures, 5
August 1996
JP 3-05, Special Operations, 18 April 2011
JP 3-05.1, Joint Special Operations, 6 April 2007

Forms
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ACLS – Advanced Cardiac Life Support
ACS – Agile Combat Support
ADVON – advanced echelon
AE – Aeromedical Evacuation
AEF – Aerospace Expeditionary Force
AELT – aeromedical Evacuation Liaison Team
AFFOR – Air Force Forces
AFMIC – Armed Forces Medical Intelligence Center
AFMS – Air Force Medical Service
AFRC – Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC –Air Force Specialty Code
                                                                                       49
AFSOC – Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSOD – Air Force Special Operations Detachment
AFSOF – Air Force Special Operations Forces
AFSOTC – Air Force Special Operations Training Center
AFTH – Air Force Theater Hospital
AFTTP – Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
AFTH – Air Force Theater Hospital
ALS – Advanced Life Support
AMC – Air Mobility Command
ANG –Air National Guard
AOB – Advance Operating Base
AOR – Area of Responsibility
ARC – Air Reserve Components
ARFOR – Army forces
ART – AEF Reporting Tool
AS – Allowance Standard
ATF – after the fact
ATLS – Advanced Trauma Life Support
ATTU – Air Transportable Treatment Unit
AvFID – Aviation Foreign Internal Defense
BAO – Battlefield Air Operations
BISC – Biomedical Initiatives Steering Committee
BOS – Base Operating Support
BW – Biological Warfare
C2 – Command and Control
CA – Civil Affairs
CAA – Combat Aviation Advisor
CASEVAC – Casualty Evacuation
CCATT – Critical Care Air Transport Team
CCT – Combat Control Team
CD – counter drug
CDRJSOTF – Commander Joint Special Operations Task Force
CHOP – Change of Operational Control
CJCS – Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
CJSOAC – Combined Joint Special Operations Air Component
CJSOTF – Combined Joint Special Operations Task Force
CMO – Cooperative Medical Oversight
CINC – Commander in Chief
COCOM – Component Commander
COCOM/SG – Component Commander/Surgeon General
COMAFFOR– Commander, Air Force Forces
COMUSSOCOM – Commander, United States Special Operations Command
CONOPS– Concept of Operations
CONUS – Continental United States
COP – combat outpost
COIN – Counterinsurgency
CSAR – Combat Search and Rescue
CSH – Combat Support Hospital
                                                                   50
CSTARS – Center for Sustainment of Trauma and Readiness Skills
CT – counter terrorism
CW– chemical warfare
CWT – Combat Weather Team
DA – direct action
DEPID – Deployment Indicator Code
DEW – directed energy weapons
DIA – Defense Intelligence Agency
DLA – Defense Logistics Agency
DNBI – Disease Non-Battlefield Injury
DRRS – Defense Readiness Reporting System
DOC – Designed Operational Capability
DOD – Department of Defense
DODI – Department of Defense Instruction
DODAC – Department of Defense Acquisition Code
DRU – direct reporting unit
DVA –Department of Veteran Affairs
ECS – Expeditionary Combat Support
EMEDS/ – Expeditionary Medical Support
EMT-P – Emergency Medical Technician - Paramedic
EMS – Expeditionary Medical Support
EMT – Emergency Medical Technician
ERO – engines running on/off-loads
FARP – forward area refueling point
FB – Fire Base
FID – Foreign Internal Defense
FOB – Forward Operating Base
FSB - Forward Staging Base
FRS – Forward Resuscitative Surgery
GCC – Geographic Combatant Commander
GPC – Government Purchase Card
GPS – Global Positioning System
HA – humanitarian assistance
HAAMS - High Altitude Airdrop Mission Support
HCA– humanitarian and civic assistance
HLZ – Helicopter Landing Zone
HMMWV – High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle
HMTF – host medical treatment facility
HN – host nation
HPE – Human Performance Enhancement
HPT – Human Performance Team
HSS – Health Service Support
IAW – in accordance with
ICU – Intensive Care Unit
IDMT – Independent Duty Medical Technician
IHS – International Health Specialist
IO – Information Operations
IOT – in order to
                                                                 51
ISB – Intermediate Staging Base
ISR – Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
ISO – in support of
ISU – Insulated Slingable Unit
IW – Irregular Warfare
IW/MSO – Irregular Warfare/Medical Stability Operations
JFACC – Joint Force Air Component Commander
JFC – Joint Force Commander
JFCOM – Joint Forces Command
JFSOCC – Joint Force Special Operations Component Commander
JPRA – Joint Personnel Recovery Agency
JSOAC – Joint Special Operations Air Component
JSOACC – Joint Special Operations Air Component Commander
JSOAC/SG – Joint Special Operations Air Component Surgeon
JSOC – Joint Special Operations Command
JSOTF – Joint Special Operations Task Force
JSOTF/SG – Joint Special Operations Task Force Surgeon General
JSRR – Joint Survival Recovery Center
JTF – Joint Task Force
LAF – Line of the Air Force
LEP – Laser Eye Protection
LOC – lines of communication
LRRC – Loaner Replacement and Repair Center
MA – Medical Attendants
MAG – Military Assistance Group
MAJCOM – Major Command
MASF – Mobile Aeromedical Staging Facility
MBITR – Multi-band Inter/Intra Team Radio
MEDEVAC – Medical Evacuation
MEMO – Medical Equipment Management Office
METLs – Mission Essential Task Lists
MFST – Mobile Field Surgical Team
MISCAPS – Mission Capabilities Statement
MISO – Military Information Support and/to Operations
MMC – Medical Material Centers
MOB – Main Operating Base
MOOTW – Military Operations Other than War
MTF – Medical Treatment Facility
MRDSS – Medical Readiness Decision Support System
MSO – Medical Stability Operations
NEO – Noncombatant Evacuation Operations
NAVFOR – Navy forces
NAVAIDS – navigation aids
NAVSPECWAR – Naval Special Warfare Command
NBC – nuclear, biological, and chemical
NCO – noncommissioned officer
NCMI – National Center for Medical Intelligence
NEO – noncombatant evacuation operation
                                                                 52
NIPRNET – Non-secure Internet Protocol Router Network
OCONUS – Outside the Continental United States
OPCON – operational control
OPR – Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC – operations security
OSM – operations support medical
PA – Physician Assistant
PALS – Pediatric Advance Life Support
PACAF – Pacific Air Force
PAR – Population at Risk
PAX - Passengers
PHA – Preventive Health Assessment
PHTLS – Pre Hospital Trauma Life Support
PJ – Special Tactics Pararescue Specialist
PJ MOAB – Pararescue Medical Oversight Advisory Board
PMI – Patient Movement Items
PMRC – Patient Movement Requirement Center
PN – Partner Nations
POL – petroleum, oils, and lubricants
PR – personnel recovery
RAM – Resident in Aerospace Medicine
RDS – Records Disposition Schedule
RRDK –Rapid Response Deployment Kit
RTD – Return to Duty
SA –security assistance
SABC – Self Aid and Buddy Care
SAM – Specialized Air Mobility
SATCOM – Satellite Communications
SEAL – sea-air-land
SecDef – Secretary of Defense
SERE – Survive Evade Resist Escape
SF – Special Forces
SG – Surgeon General
SIMLM – Single Integrated Medical Logistic Manager
SIPRNET – Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SME – Squadron Medical Element
SMO – Senior Medical Officer
SO – special operations
SOCAFRICA – Special Operations Command Africa
SOCCENT – Special Operations Command Central
SOCCET – Special Operations Critical Care Evacuation Team
SOCEUR – Special Operations Command Europe
SOCJFCOM – Special Operations Command Joint Forces Command
SOCKOR – Special Operations Command Korea
SOCM – Special Operations Combat Medic
SOCPAC – Special Operations Command Pacific
SOCSOUTH – Special Operations Command South

                                                             53
SOF – special operations forces
SOFME – Special Operations Forces Medical Element
SOG – Special Operations Group
SOMDG – Special Operations Medical Group
SORTS – Status of Resources and Training System
SOSS – Special Operations Support Squadron
SOST – Special Operations Surgical Team
SOTF – Special Operations Task Force
SOW– Special Operations Wing
SR – special reconnaissance
SREF – Specialized Refueling
STG – Special Tactics Group
STT – Special Tactics Team
STS – Special Tactics Squadron
TACCOM – Tactical Communications
TACON – Tactical Control
TCAM - TAMMIS Module TCAM stands for Theater Army Medical Management Information
 System (TAMMIS) Customer Assistance Module
TACP – Tactical Air Control Party
TLAMM – Theater Lead Agent for Medical Material
TSOC/SG – Theater Special Operations/Command Surgeon
TSG – theater surgeon
TSOC – Theater Special Operations Command
TTP – tactics, techniques, and procedures
UCAM - USAMMCE Customer Assistance Module
UK – United Kingdom
USAMMCE – United States Army Medical Materiel Center Europe
USA – United States Army
USAF – United States Air Force
USAFSOS – United States Air Force Special Operations School
USCENTCOM – Untied States Central Command
USCG – United States Coast Guard
USEUCOM – United States European Command
USMC – United States Marine Corps
USN – United States Navy
USNORTHCOM – United States Northern Command
USASOC – United States Army Special Operations Command
USFK –United States Forces Korea
USSOCOM/CC – United States Special Operations Command Commander
USSOCOM – United States Special Operations Command
USSOUTHCOM – Untied States Southern Command
UTC - Unit Type Code
UW – Unconventional Warfare
WMD – weapons of mass destruction
WRM – War Reserve Materiel




                                                                               54
Terms

Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) specifically refers to United States Air Force (USAF) fixed wing
movement of regulated casualties, using organic and/or contracted mobility airframes, with AE
aircrew trained explicitly for this mission. (JP 4-02 and JP 3-17)

casualty evacuation (CASEVAC) – The unregulated movement of casualties that can include
movement both to and between medical treatment facilities. (JP 4-02) Movement of patients
using any vehicle of opportunity (to include fixed wing assets) from either the point of injury
and/or a transload site to a higher level of medical care or a regulated patient movement system.

Damage control surgical stabilization – Surgery that is required to save life or limb and to
stabilize a patient for transport.

medical evacuation (MEDEVAC) – A term used to delineate the use of dedicated platforms to
carry patients which are designed for the express purpose of providing en route care. Medical
evacuation (MEDEVAC) traditionally refers to US Army (USA), US Navy (USN), US Marine
Corps (USMC), or US Coast Guard (USCG) patient movement using pre-designated tactical or
logistic aircraft, boats, ships, and other watercraft temporarily equipped and staffed with medical
attendants (MA) for en route care.

patient movement items (PMI) – PMI consists of designated medical equipment, durable
supplies, and consumable supplies necessary to support a patient during aeromedical evacuation

pararescue team – Specially trained personnel qualified to penetrate to the site of an incident by
air, land or sea, render medical aid, accomplish survival methods and rescue survivors. (JP 1-02)

special operations — Operations conducted in hostile, denied, or politically sensitive
environments to achieve military, diplomatic, informational, and/or economic objectives
employing military capabilities for which there is no broad conventional force requirement.
These operations often require covert, clandestine, or low visibility capabilities. Special
operations are applicable across the range of military operations. They can be conducted
independently or in conjunction with operations of conventional forces or other government
agencies and may include operations through, with, or by indigenous or surrogate forces.
Special operations differ from conventional operations in degree of physical and political risk,
operational techniques, mode of employment, independence from friendly support, and
dependence on detailed operational intelligence and indigenous assets. Also called SO. (JP 3-05)

special operations forces – Those Active and Reserve Component forces of the Military Services
designated by the Secretary of Defense and specifically organized, trained and equipped to
conduct and support special operations. Also called SOF. (JP 1-02)

special tactics — US Air Force special operations forces organized, trained, and equipped
to conduct special operations. They include combat control team, pararescue, and combat
weather personnel who provide the interface between air and ground combat operations. Also
called ST. See also special tactics team (STT). (JP 1-02)



                                                                                                 55
special tactics team — A task-organized element of special tactics that may include combat
control, pararescue, and combat weather personnel. Functions include austere airfield and
assault zone reconnaissance, surveillance, establishment, and terminal control; terminal attack
control; combat search and rescue; combat casualty care and evacuation staging; and tactical
weather observations and forecasting. Also called STT. (JP 1-02)

stabilized patient — A patient whose airway is secured, hemorrhage is controlled, shock treated,
and fractures are immobilized. (JP 4-02.2)

transload – Transfer of casualties from one form of conveyance to another. Examples would be
using an MC-130 or SF ground vehicle to CV-22, to facilitate casualty evacuation from forward
areas. A transload also implies that casualty care is transferred from one team to another. This
function can be performed across the spectrum of permissive, denied or hostile environments.




                                                                                                  56
                                          Attachment 2

                         AFSOC AE PLANNING REQUIREMENTS

A4.1. Although AFSOC does possess organic CASEVAC capability, AFSOC does not possess
organic conventional AE capability. Therefore SOFME personnel and medical planners must
identify AE requirements and obtain conventional AE support when required. As the
USSOCOM air component surgeon, AFSOC/SG has the overall responsibility for identifying
and coordinating SOF AE requirements. TSOC medical planners have the responsibility for
identifying AE requirements in theater plans. SOG medical planners should coordinate AE
requirements with TSOC and geographic conventional air component planners. Deliberate
planning should include the movement of SOF patients from forward or remote areas back to
military or HN medical treatment facilities that have the capabilities to provide the appropriate
level and standard of care. Additionally, deliberate planning should address the SOF medical
interface with the conventional theater and inter-theater AE system for patient movement
requirements.

A4.2. SOFME CASEVAC and conventional AE integration must be considered during the
planning process. Deliberate and crisis action planning match SOF missions to SOF casualty
evacuation and conventional AE capabilities. SOF missions require a flexible response.
Therefore, conventional AE units tasked to support SOF missions may occasionally be required
to modify or adjust their operational concepts to meet SOF mission requirements. An AE
planner may be an active participant in the SOF mission planning process when AE support may
be required. The JSOAC surgeon and medical planner will develop and coordinate all JSOAC
medical support requirements with TSOC and conventional AE planners. Conventional AE units
need not obtain SOF-type equipment.

A4.3. Doctrinal SOF and AE differences will be addressed in the planning process. SOF does
not utilize patient movement items (PMI) and provides limited casualty documentation.
However, predetermined PMI may need to be placed at forward or intermediate staging bases.
Little or no medications will accompany SOF patients. Medical regulation of patients from SOF
mission locations or FOBs does not occur. Instead, patients may be moved to pre-designated
theater MTFs. SOF medical equipment is limited and may not move with the patient. AE UTCs
may require significant pairing and tailoring to support SOF missions. The concept of operations
may be fluid until the time of mission execution with frequent adjustments.

A4.4. During a major contingency, interface with conventional AE may occur at either an FSB
or ISB, depending on the scenario. In a SOF-only operation (or exercise), conventional AE may
not be available. In these instances, the SOFME has three options: 1) hold the casualty at the
deployed location and wait for conventional AE; 2) use HN medical support; or 3) continue
transport via SOF opportune aircraft to a location where a link with the conventional AE system
is available. The option chosen will depend on the condition of the casualty as well as the
availability of both SOF and conventional AE aircraft for casualty transport.




                                                                                                57
