BY ORDER OF                    AIR FORCE TACTICS, TECHNIQUES, AND
THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                 PROCEDURES 3-42.56

                                                                                   26 APRIL 2012

                                                                                 Tactical Doctrine

                       HIGH ALTITUDE AIRDROP MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS
______________________________________________________________________________
ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the Air Force e-Publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil and on the Air Mobility Command SG & A3OE Manpower &
Equipment Force Packaging (MEFPAK) Community of Practice website at:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=27468

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication.
______________________________________________________________________________
OPR: AMC/SGP                                                           Certified by: AF/SG3
                                                                      (Col James D. Collier)
                                                                                   Pages: 21
______________________________________________________________________________

PURPOSE: The Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-42 series of
publications is the primary reference for medical combat support capability. This AFTTP, 3-42.56,
provides tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP) for High Altitude Airdrop Mission Support
(HAAMS) for special operations, research and development, humanitarian and psychological
warfare during peacetime and wartime operations. Since HAAMS is only one component of the
larger Department of Defense (DoD) mobility airlift enterprise, the guidance is designed to assist
planners in the successful integration of HAAMS into mobility airlift operations and interface
successfully with joint operations. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) maintained in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847 through the appropriate
chain of command and parent Major Command (MAJCOM).

APPLICATION: This publication applies to active duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve, and Air
National Guard personnel on flying status, passengers in certain types of aircraft, and other
personnel who perform HAAMS. The doctrine in this document is authoritative but not
directive.

SCOPE: The primary mission for the HAAMS Center/Physiology Technician (PT) is to provide
in-flight physiological support IAW AFI 11-409, High Altitude Airdrop Mission Support
Program, to aircrews, parachutists and mission essential ground personnel performing
unpressurized airdrop operations at 20,000 feet mean sea level (MSL) and above. These airdrops

                                                 1
could be, but are not limited to: DoD Special Operations High Altitude Low Opening
(HALO)/High Altitude High Opening (HAHO) personnel and equipment drops, Military
Information Support Operations (MISO-formally PsyOps), equipment testing and research
operations, and humanitarian aid operations. Air Mobility Command Surgeon General
(AMC/SG) is the Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging (MEFPAK) Responsible Agency
(MRA).




                                          2
                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS

CHAPTER 1 – HIGH ALTITUDE AIRDROP MISSION
             SUPPORT OPERATIONS
1.1. Purpose                                                 5
1.2. HAAMS Capabilites                                       5

CHAPTER 2 – ROLES AND RESPONSIBILTIES
2.1. AF Surgeon General (SG)                                 6
2.2. Headquarters Air Mobility Command Surgeon (HQ AMC/SG)   6
2.3 AMC Physiology (43A and 4M0X1) Consultants               6
2.4. HAAMS Center Director and Superintendent                6
2.5. AF HAAMS Program Manager                                6
2.6. Medical Group/Squadron Commander                        6
2.7. Medical Group Readiness Flight                          7
2.8. Pilot Unit                                              7
2.9. Standardization/Evaluation NCOIC                        7
2.10. Mission Ready (MR) PT                                  7
2.11. Non-Mission Ready (NMR) PT.                            7

CHAPTER 3 – PRE-DEPLOYMENT/PLANNING
3.1. Overview                                                8
3.2. Mobility Status/Medical Readiness                       8
3.3. Pre-mission/Deployment Planning                         8
3.4. Passport                                                8
3.5. HAAMS Pre-Deployment Training Contingency Course (s)    8
3.6. Equipment and Supplies                                  9
3.7. Aircrew Flight Clothing and Equipment                   9
3.8. Pre-Deployment Health Self-Assessment                   9

CHAPTER 4 – OPERATIONS/POST DEPLOYMENT
4.1. Execution Authority                                     10
4.2. Employment                                              10
4.3. Prior to First Mission Sortie                           10
4.4. During Mission Sorties                                  10
4.5. Post Mission/Deployment                                 10
4.6. Redeployment to Continental United States (CONUS)       11
4.7. Flight Records                                          11
4.8. Post-Deployment Health Self Assessment                  11
4.9. Mission Folder                                          11
4.10. Security                                               11

CHAPTER 5 – LOGISTICS
5.1. Overview                                                12
5.2. Inspection/Inventory Requirements                       12
5.3. Allowance Standard (AS)                                 12

                                          3
5.4. Re-Supply, Re-Constitution/Sustainment                        12
5.5. Post Deployment Inventory and Reconstitution                  12

CHAPTER 6 – TRAINING/MISSION TRAINING PLANS
6.1. Introduction/Objectives                                       13
6.2. Responsibilities                                              13
6.3. Documentation                                                 13
6.4. PT 6-Part Folder                                              13
6.5. PT Training                                                   14
6.6. Continuation Training                                         16

ATTACHMENT 1 - Glossary of References and Supporting Information   17

ATTACHMENT 2 - Approved HAAMS Equipment List                       20




                                            4
                       CHAPTER 1
    HIGH ALTITUDE AIRDROP MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS

1.1. Purpose. This document describes the TTP for HAAMS Unit Type codes (UTCs) FFQBB
(personnel team) and FFQB1 (equipment pallet). In accordance with AFI 11-409 High Altitude
Airdrop Mission Support Program, HAAMS personnel are specially trained PTs (AFSC 43A3 or
4M0). PTs provide in-flight physiological support to aircrews and Special Operations Forces
(SOF) High Altitude Parachutist (HAP) performing unpressurized airdrop operations at 20,000
feet MSL and above (or upon aircraft or airborne commander’s request). These airdrops could
be, but are not limited to: DoD SOF HALO/HAHO personnel and equipment drops, MISO,
equipment testing and research operations, and humanitarian aid operations. Any unpressurized
airdrop missions at 20,000 feet MSL and above require USAF HAAMS trained/certified PTs
IAW AFI 11-409.

1.2. HAAMS Capabilities. Personnel UTC FFQBB are fully capable of deploying with the
FFQB1 equipment package or independently. PTs will be permanently assigned as Operational
Support Flyer (OSF) to support a deployed, forward-based, and/or other fixed airbase operation.
Team members are designed to operate under the control of the deployed commander and/or user
group and meet OSF requirements IAW AFI 11-202 Vol 1, Aircrew Training.

       1.2.1. UTC FFQBB. The FFQBB Mission Capabilities Statement (MISCAP) provides
       two-person teams for physiological support to aircrew and on-board personnel during
       unpressurized flights at or above Flight Level (FL) 200 or as otherwise requested. PTs
       are specially trained and are responsible for monitoring aircrew, parachutists and other
       on-board personnel. Team(s) will be equipped to function 30 days without re-supply.
       Only active duty, world-wide deployable personnel with AFSC 43A3, 4M051, 4M071
       and 4M091 skill levels may fill this UTC. AFSC substitutions are not authorized without
       prior approval from AMC/SG.

       1.2.2. UTC FFQB1. UTCs must be capable of stand-alone operations within their
       functional area. The manpower UTC must be able to perform its mission from a bare
       base or established main operating base or, if designed to meet main operating base
       requirements, must be able to combine with additional UTCs to meet requirements of
       bare base operations. The FFQB1 was designed for this purpose and its MISCAP
       describes and lists aeromedical equipment and supplies for the two-person HAAMS
       team. The equipment package allows the team to support various contingency operations
       for 30-days without re-supply.




                                               5
                                      CHAPTER 2
                              ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. AF Surgeon General (SG). HQ AF/SG provides medical, technical, fiscal, and
administrative supervision and support needed to carry out the HAAMS Program. The AF/SG
has assigned the AMC/SG as the AF HAAMS MEFPAK Responsible Agency (MRA).

2.2. Headquarters Air Mobility Command Surgeon (HQ AMC/SG). Provides command
oversight, operational and MEFPAK management of the HAAMS Program. Provides medical,
technical, fiscal, and administrative supervision and support needed to carry out the HAAMS
Program. Is the approving authority for MISCAP changes. The AMC/SG has delegated
management of the HAAMS Program to the AMC 4M0X1 Enlisted Functional Manager or
designated representative.

2.3. AMC Aerospace Physiology (43A and 4M0X1) Consultants. Serve as points of contact
for HAAMS operations and will ensure the training, regulatory, fiscal, and resource requirements
of personnel and equipment are met.

2.4. HAAMS Center Director and Superintendent. Ensures the HAAMS Program is
conducted IAW AFI 11-403, Aerospace Physiology Training Program, AFI 11-409 and other
applicable directives. Responsible for personnel, overall administration, operations, training,
maintenance, stan/eval and support of the program. Will ensure PTs are properly trained,
equipped and available for tasking(s). Ensures the HAAMS Center’s budget reflects all AF-wide
projected HAAMS training and equipment requirements. Facilitates all aspects of HAAMS
operations and maintains MR PT status.

2.5. AF HAAMS Program Manager. Manages and serves as the subject matter expert and
contingency tasking agency for the AF HAAMS Program. Provides program and global tasking
status to the AMC/SG as requested. Interfaces with AMC/SGX on HAAMS Program
capabilities to assure proper manning and utilization of these assets during wartime and/or non-
contingency operations. Coordinates with DoD agencies requiring HAAMS capabilities. Builds
and manages all standardized checklists, forms, and consolidates post-mission reports. Annually
compiles and submits operational support man-month authorizations to the AMC Aviation
Records Management (ARM) Office. Coordinates support for joint tasking(s), receives and
reviews post-mission reports from all tasked team leaders. Designs and manages PT upgrade
training and certifies final evaluation. Pre-briefs and selects PTs based on qualifications, aircraft,
mission requirements and Stan/Eval. Coordinates Aeronautical Orders (AO) with the Host
Aviation Records Management (HARM) Office upon receipt of tasking letter and ensures PTs
have appropriate training, flight and oxygen equipment to perform the mission. The program
manager will maintain MR PT status.

2.6. Medical Group/Squadron Commander. Ensures FFQBB members are appointed, trained
and are ready for deployment or non-contingency tasking. Provides medical, fiscal and
administrative support to ensure successful training, pre-deployment planning, deployment and
re-deployment.



                                                  6
2.7. Medical Group Readiness Flight. The Medical Readiness staff is responsible for
identifying personnel shortages and reporting readiness status of FFQBB and FFQB1 assigned
via the unit Medical Resource Letter (MRL), Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS),
Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS), Enhanced Status of Resources and Training
System (ESORTS), and AEF Reporting Tool (ART). Additionally, the Medical Readiness Flight
will notify members assigned to UTCs about changes in pre-deployment training and medical
requirements.

 2.8. Pilot Unit. The FFQBB and FFQB1 pilot unit is the HAAMS Center at Little Rock AFB,
AR. In accordance with AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support and AFI 10-401, Air Force
Operation Planning and Execution, the pilot unit is responsible for developing and maintaining
standard manpower and equipment allowance standards (AS) and logistic details for each UTC
for which it has been assigned responsibility by the MRA.

2.9. HAAMS Center Standardization/Evaluation Non-Commissioned Officer in Charge
(NCOIC). Answers directly to the HAAMS Center Director and oversees formal evaluations on
all HAAMS team members every 17 months, or more frequently if deemed necessary to ensure
currency and proficiency. Will ensure formal evaluations and no-notice check rides are
accomplished IAW 11-409. The NCOIC will manage and maintain strict control over PTs 6-part
Flight Evaluation Folder (FEF). The NCOIC will maintain MR PT status.

2.10. Mission Ready (MR) PT. Member who is available, current and qualified. PTs will
immediately report any changes to their MR status to the HAAMS Program Manager.

2.11. Non-Mission Ready (NMR) PT. Member who is non-current, incomplete in required
continuation training, unavailable due to other tasking or not qualified to perform HAAMS.




                                               7
                                     CHAPTER 3
                             PRE-DEPLOYMENT/PLANNING

3.1. Overview. The Pre-Deployment/Planning phase includes maintenance of UTC team
member training, qualifications and/or equipment, and planning for employment of medical
assets in support of contingency/non-contingency operations. UTCs FFQBB/FFQB1 are
enablers. They do not deploy in AEF Tempo Bands; however, they may deploy with short-
notice, requiring the member(s) or package to be in a ready state at all times.

3.2. Mobility Status/Medical Readiness. Only MR PTs will occupy UTC positions. Status of
MR PTs filling a UTC position will be strictly monitored by the HAAMS Program Manager.
The HAAMS Program Manager will be notified immediately of changes in a PT’s mobility
status. MR PTs must complete all required ground and flight Mission Essential Task List
(METL) items as well as Readiness Skills Verification Program (RSVP) requirements. MR PTs
will also be evaluated by Stan/Eval every 17 months.

3.3. Pre-Mission/Deployment Planning. This phase formally begins when tasked. However,
mission demands can occur with little notice and it’s each PT’s responsibility to be ready and
prepared to deploy quickly. They will complete each item on the Mission Checklist (refer to AFI
11-409). Essential equipment must be carried, or coordinated with user group, and approved for
use IAW the HAAMS Equipment List (Attachment 2). PTs will be placed on operational
support AOs and receive intelligence threat briefings based on mission, location and user group.
PTs will contact the user group as soon as possible and discuss expectations, show times, drop
schedule, aircraft availability for pre-rigging and contact information (e.g., cell phone number,
lodging). Contact the local flight surgeon and obtain 24-hour medical emergency contact
information, nearest hyperbaric facility, and physiological incident plans. Discuss pre-breathing
requirements, exposure limits and rigging configurations with the user group and aircrew. The
loadmaster (LM) is the final approving authority for all rigging configurations. If necessary,
ensure an instructor aircrew member conducts emergency and egress procedures for all PTs.
Document ground training on AF Form 4022 Aircrew Training Folder. PTs will brief aircrew,
parachutists and MEGP prior to any drop at or above FL200. Additional briefings will be given
as required for new personnel not briefed previously and during extended missions for refresher
purposes. PTs should also brief personnel on any SII or problem areas observed on previous
missions.

3.4. Passport. All members, upon assignment to the FFQBB, will obtain official passports
purchased at government expense.

3.5. HAAMS Pre-Deployment Training Contingency Course(s). The FFQBB UTC may be
called to support various DoD user groups with unique missions. These groups may require pre-
deployment user group orientation, HAAMS specific equipment, intelligence, combat training
and/or briefings. This additional training is conducted at Little Rock AFB. Specific list and
length of course(s) will be included in the AEF tasking, and the PT must expect and plan for this
training prior to deployment.




                                                8
3.6. Equipment and Supplies. The FFQB1 is the UTC HAAMS equipment package and will
be inventoried at least annually IAW AFI 41-209. The FFQBB team chief is responsible for the
familiarity of all members with the HAAMS equipment package content inspections and pack-
out guide. Teams will deploy with either an electronic or hard-copy listing of the AS for pack-
out and re-supply actions. Deploying FFQBB members should also perform an inventory of the
FFQB1 equipment package against the AS upon notification of deployment to ensure the
package is complete and that items with expiration dates will not expire during the deployment.
FFQBB team members will complete their own Shipment Declaration of Dangerous Goods
forms for hazardous items in their deploying equipment. They will present these forms to the
appropriate agencies IAW the base Installation Deployment Plan and present a copy to the
deploying commander.

3.7. Aircrew Flight Clothing and Equipment. PT members must be properly equipped to
perform duties in the flying environment to include issue of aircrew-specific personal protective
clothing items. HAAMS members must have the same flight personal protective clothing,
equipment, and protection equipment as aircrew. Each member will be issued initial protective
clothing and equipment items (e.g., flight suit, gloves, boots, flight jacket, etc.) for non-
contingency HAAMS flight operations. For individuals tasked to deploy, a list of minimum-
required protective clothing and equipment items for flight operations will be listed on the AEF
Center website. HAAMS operations do not fall under the Operations Group for training and
equipping and do not receive support from Aircrew Flight Equipment personnel. It is the
responsibility of the home station Medical Treatment Facilities (MTF)/CC to properly train and
equip each member identified to fill HAAMS position requirements.

3.8. Pre-Deployment Health Risk-Assessment. All members will complete DD Form 2795,
Pre-Deployment Health Risk Assessment, as soon as possible after they have been tasked or
within 60-days prior to deployment. This self-assessment is immediately reviewed by a health
care provider. DD Form 2795 is required for OCONUS deployments to a non-fixed MTF for
more than 30-days.




                                                9
                                  CHAPTER 4
                     OPERATIONS/PRE AND POST-DEPLOYMENT

4.1. Execution Authority. Personnel may be deployed to support various DOD user groups.
Deployment tasking will provide additional information on the organization requesting support.
Each member will be briefed on their Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) chain of
command once they arrive in theater.

4.2. Employment. High altitude personnel and equipment airdrop procedures may be employed
during clandestine operations or in areas where small arms threats preclude conventional low-
altitude deliveries. Airdrops above 3,000 feet above ground level (AGL) are considered high
altitude drops. At least one PT is required per 16 personnel, or as required by mission design
series (MDS)-specific instructions, for all unpressurized high altitude missions conducted at or
above 20,000 feet MSL. It is recommended that at least two PTs be assigned to each mission,
one of which must be MR. PTs also may support missions below 20,000 feet MSL when
requested by an air tasking order, the aircrew, or the user’s operations mission planner.

4.3. Prior to First Mission Sortie. PTs will review current applicable regulations, aircraft
instructions, and HAAMS checklists and briefing guide. PTs will be placed on 9C operational
support AOs and receive required intelligence threat briefings. They will utilize the HAAMS
briefing guide in AFI 11-409 and brief all aircrew, parachutists and/or MEGP prior to any
mission at or above FL200. They will coordinate with the local flight surgeon on procedures for
transfer of individuals suspected of decompression sickness to a hyperbaric facility. They will
brief the aircrew, jumpmaster and/or other essential personnel on handling procedures of in-
flight equipment and medical emergencies. They provide pre-flight briefings on the
physiological/physical hazards of the mission, pre-breathing procedures, effects of
environmental stresses, proper use of in-flight supplemental oxygen equipment, and any other
special physiological considerations (depending on the mission profile) to all aircrew,
parachutists, and additional passengers prior to the mission. PTs monitor aircrew, parachutists,
MEGP and passengers during the mission and manage in-flight physiological reactions until
relieved by a flight surgeon. They advise aircraft commanders and jumpmasters on safe
decompression schedules, altitude and time restrictions, and the disposition of in-flight
decompression sickness reactors requiring hyperbaric treatment. PTs also advise and assist
aircrew and jumpmasters on aircraft equipment rigging and in-flight operation, monitoring and
management of supplemental oxygen consoles and aircrew/parachutist portable oxygen
equipment.

4.4. During Mission Sorties. The PTs will provide adequate support to aircrew, jumpers and
MEGP during flight(s). PTs will maintain oxygen discipline and monitor and record times and
altitudes to which crew and other personnel were exposed from take off to landing.

4.5. Post-Mission/Deployment. The team leader is responsible for completing the post-mission
checklist and submitting a trip report to the HAAMS Program Manager within 10 calendar days
of returning. The team leader will complete applicable flight forms (e.g., AF Form 4022 Aircrew
Training Folder, AF Form 4023 Aircrew Training Progress Report, AF Form 4024 Aircrew
Training Accomplishment Report and AF Form - 4025 Aircrew Summary/Close-Out Report) for

                                               10
each mission. If applicable, the team leader will ensure flight forms are accomplished to
accurately record NMR and/or MR PT’s evaluation and progress. These forms will be placed in
PT’s 6-part FEF.

4.6. Redeployment to CONUS. If applicable, members will inventory and re-pack all FFQB1
medical equipment assets according to the pack-out list. Any hazardous items will require
appropriate documentation. All personal gear will be packed in personal bags only. DO NOT
pack personal items in FFQB1 asset containers.

4.7. Flight Records. In accordance with AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, the original copy
of the AFTO Form 781, ARMS Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document must be provided to the
HARM office no later than 5 days after the end of the month in which the flights were
performed. For example, the AFTO Form 781 for a flight flown in March must be turned in to
the servicing HARM office no later than (NLT) 5 April.

4.8. Post-Deployment Health Risk-Assessment. All members will complete DD Form 2796,
Post-Deployment Health Risk Assessment, before entering reconstitution or leave status. DD
Form 2900, Post-Deployment Health Reassessment, will be accomplished online 90-180 days
after return.

4.9. Mission Folder. All HAAMS PTs will maintain a mission folder which will contain, at a
minimum, the following items: Current AF Form 1887, Aeronautical Order (PA) Aviation
Service, AF Form 1042, Medical Recommendations for Flying for Special Operational Duty;
AF Form 702, Individual Physiological Training Record or AF Form 1274, Physiological
Training; AFTO 781 (blank); AFI 11-403, AFI 11-409, AFI 11-410, High Altitude Airdrop
Procedures Section of Applicable Aircraft 11-2C-XV3, Oxygen Requirements Section of AFI
11-202V3, Checklists, Forms, Reports, HAAMS Program Manager’s Emergency Contact
Numbers, and if applicable, line badge and passport.

4.10. Security. All aspects of communications security (COMSEC) and operational security
(OPSEC) are fully implemented and rigidly enforced. Personnel will be in/out-briefed on the
sensitivity/classification of the operations they are supporting once they arrive on-site. The use
of Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) is expected for sensitive or classified
information. Member(s) will communicate with their user group to determine classification level
before sending information forward.




                                               11
                                          CHAPTER 5
                                          LOGISTICS

5.1. Overview. The FFQB1 UTC improves HAAMS PT’s ability to support airdrops at
deployed locations. It provides a world-wide deployable medical equipment and supplies pallet
for two-person HAAMS team. This UTC is generally used in conjunction with FFQBB, which
provides the support personnel. Agile combat support is required and the pilot unit is the
HAAMS Center at Little Rock AFB, AR.

5.2. Inspection/Inventory Requirements. The FFQB1 pallet is governed by AFI 41-209,
Medical Logistics Support. This instruction provides guidance for establishing and operating
medical logistics support for MTFs. Perform a complete or cyclical inventory so all items are
inventoried within 12 months of their previous inventory (the actual due date for inventory
completion is the final calendar day of the anniversary month, e.g., if the previous inventory
closed on 15 March, the next must be completed NLT 31 March of the following calendar year).

5.3. Allowance Standard (AS). The FFQB1 pallet enables PTs to perform their mission for 30-
days without re-supply. The pallet contains specialized oxygen equipment used to perform
HAAMS. It is built on a standard USAF 463L pallet with an overall dimension of 88 X 108
inches with usable dimensions of 84 X 104 inches. This allows two inches around the load to
attach straps, nets, or other restraint devices. The 463L pallet system and nets will restrain up to
10,000 pounds of general cargo 96 inches high.

5.4. Re-Supply, Re-Constitution/Sustainment. Expeditionary Medical Logistics provides
timely re-supply of ordered items to deployed medical units. Upon deployment notification,
Medical Logistics personnel should contact the Air Force Medical Logistics Operations Center
(AFMLOC), to receive re-supply guidance for the specific destination/location at DSN 343-
4172/2883/4294, email afmoa.sgalx.afmloc@detrick.af.mil or the Air Force Medical Logistics
Readiness website https://medlog.detrick.af.mil/index.cfm?event=medlog.readiness. Re-supply
orders will flow from the closest designated host medical treatment facility or reach-back
support facility. Once logistical support is present, the Theater Lead Agent for Medical Materiel
(TLAMM) may become the source for all medical supply needs. Refer to AFTTP 3-42.8,
Expeditionary Medical Logistics System, for further guidance. Members are expected to predict
supply needs so regular logistic channels and support can be used.

5.5. Post Deployment Inventory and Reconstitution. PT(s) will coordinate with the HAAMS
Program Manager and/or the pilot unit to determine where the pallet(s) will be returned for
inventory and re-supply. Members are responsible for identifying any equipment that failed,
requires maintenance, or is missing at the time the assets are returned. AMC/SG supplement to
AFI 41-209 requires the Medical Logistics Flight to perform a complete inventory and report
stick status within 30 days upon receipt of re-deployed assets.




                                                12
                                          CHAPTER 6
                                          TRAINING

6.1. Introduction/Objective. The overall objective of the PT training program is to develop
and maintain a high state of MR PT personnel for rapid employment across the full spectrum of
operational requirements. PT personnel will be able to interface with airlift operations, prepare
any mobility aircraft for high altitude equipment or personnel airdrops, and provide appropriate
en route and post mission physiological support using certified PT equipment.

6.2. Responsibilities. HQ AMC/SG is the HAAMS MRA and is responsible for UTC
manpower and ensures personnel tasked are properly trained and equipped to conduct operations
IAW the FFQBB MISCAP. The AF HAAMS Program Manager approves training, operations
and Stan/Eval procedures. The HAAMS Center is responsible for conducting and tracking all
training and Stan/Eval across the AF.

6.3. Documentation. As OSF members, PT’s contribute to flight safety and effectiveness
through training and experience. Accurate, detailed documentation is necessary to track progress
and ensure each PT is qualified to support various types of missions. All NMR and MR PT
initial and mission qualification evaluations and continuation training will be documented and
maintained in the individual’s HAAMS 6-part FEF or equivalent.

       6.3.1. AF Form 1522 ARMS Additional Training Accomplishment Report/4022 Aircrew
       Training Folder – Used to document all ground training events. Only Mission-Designed
       Series (MDS) instructor designated aircrew member(s) can sign off on egress and
       Emergency Procedures (EP) training using AF Form 1522. This training will be
       transferred over to AF Form 4022. Maintain AF Form 1522 in member’s 6-part FEF until
       the training is re-accomplished.

       6.3.2. AF Form 4023 Aircrew Training Progress Report – Used to document member’s
       progress on academics, hands-on and flight training. This form will be used to document
       each training event and will include a statement of progress (e.g., student on track).

       6.3.3. AF Form 4024 Aircrew Training Accomplishment Report - Lists ground and flight
       METL and other special interest items (SII).

       6.3.4. AF Form 4025 Aircrew Summary/Close-Out Report - Provides detail summary of
       initial and mission qualification training. Includes strengths/weaknesses and
       recommendation for upgrades and check rides.

6.4. PT 6-Part Flight Evaluation Folder. This folder will contain all documentation pertaining
to PT training and will include the following:

       6.4.1. Part 1: Volunteer Letter, UTC Appointment Letter, AF Forms 1522, 4022, 4023,
       4024 and 4025.

       6.4.2. Part 2: AO, AF Form 1098 (or equivalent), AF Forms 702 and 1042.

                                                13
      6.4.3. Part 3: Trip Reports (Current FY).

      6.4.4. Part 4: TDY Orders, Travel Vouchers (Current FY).

      6.4.5. Part 5: AFTO Form 781s (Current FY).

      6.4.6. Part 6. Passport, Immunization Record, Geneva Conventions Card, Military ID
      tags.

6.5. PT Training. The HAAMS Center will coordinate, conduct, document and track academic,
ground, flight, and on-the-job training.

      6.5.1. Initial Qualification Training. This training is for individuals who have little to no
      HAAMS experience or who were previously qualified but have not been involved in
      airdrops for more than five years. Individuals undergoing initial qualification training
      will be considered NMR.

             6.5.1.1. Prerequisites for Initial Qualification Training.

                     6.5.1.1.1. At least 2 years experience in Aerospace and Operational
                     Physiology career field

                     6.5.1.1.2. Minimum AFSC 4M051 or 43A3

                     6.5.1.1.3. Complete HAAMS Center Director/Superintendent and
                     HAAMS Program Manager interview. Purpose is to ensure each
                     candidate demonstrated good motivation, judgment and maturity and
                     understands required training, roles and responsibilities. Additionally,
                     candidate’s knowledge, skills and ability to recognize and treat
                     physiological reactors will be assessed.

                     6.5.1.1.4. Complete two C-130 low-level flights to assess adaptability to
                     the flying environment.

                     6.5.1.1.5. After the candidate meets the above criteria, the HAAMS
                     Program Manager will initiate a volunteer letter outlining standards and
                     expectations. The letter will be signed by the candidate and maintained in
                     the individual’s 6-part FEF.

             6.5.1.2. Required Courses: The following courses must be completed prior to
             receiving MR PT status: Combat Survival S-V80-A, Emergency Parachute
             Training S-V80-B, and Water Survival S-V86-A. These courses may be
             completed concurrently with MR initial qualification training. In the event of a
             physiologic event, Physiology Technicians, unless otherwise trained to the EMT-
             B, will render assistance at the self-aid and buddy care level only.

                                               14
6.5.1.3. Recommended: Basic Emergency Medical Technician, Arctic Survival
S-V87-A, Water Survival Non-Parachuting S-V90-A, U.S. Army’s Basic
Airborne, Military Freefall Parachutist, and manufacturer’s oxygen equipment
operators/maintenance courses.

6.5.1.4. HAAMS Course. The HAAMS Program Manager is responsible for
conducting the self-paced academic and hands-on training course. It will
commence once prerequisites listed in paragraph 6.5.1.1. have been completed.
Course duration is approximately 10 duty days and will cover subjects and
equipment listed in the METL. If available, local C-130 equipment and/or
parachute sorties will be coordinated to familiarize NMR PTs with various types
of flight operations and missions. Additional Special Interest Items (SIIs) may be
added to the course. Certificate of completion will be signed by the HAAMS
Program Manager and HAAMS Center Director and placed in the member’s 6-
part FEF.

6.5.1.5. Initial Ground Qualification Training. The primary MDS for HAAMS is
the C-130 and C-17. If possible, hands-on C-130 and C-17 egress and EP training
will be accomplished by any instructor designated aircrew member. Minimum
requirements are listed in the AFI 11-2C Vol 1 series of each MDS and include
local area survival, aircraft emergency procedures and equipment, ground and in-
flight safety issues, compatibility of PT equipment with the aircraft, and a ground
training period. An MDS instructor certifies requirements on AF Form 1522.
PTs will then transfer training information to AF Form 4022.

6.5.1.6. Initial Flight Qualification Training. The HAAMS course and initial
ground qualification training must be completed prior to flight training. Flight
training involves real-world non-contingency tasking or local sorties. Each NMR
PT will participate in a minimum of five oxygen equipment sorties (additional
sorties recommended and as deemed necessary) with two at or above FL200,
accompanied by an MR PT. The NMR PT will progressively assume more
responsibilities until capable of handling all aspects of a mission. MR PTs will
use AF Form 4023 and document NMR PT’s progress on each sortie.

6.5.1.7. Initial Qualification Evaluation. When the NMR PT satisfactorily
completes flight training and the minimum number of sorties, he/she will act as
the team leader on a subsequent mission and be evaluated by a MR PT using the
evaluation checklist. This mission evaluation includes, but is not limited to, pre-
mission, mission and post-mission checklist compliance. Based on the NMR
PT’s performance, the MR PT will use AF Form 4025 and recommend
upgrade/not upgrade to MR status. The HAAMS Program Manager will review
the NMR PT’s 6-part FEF and make a final determination of NMR or MR status.
Individuals not selected for MR status will be counseled and a personalized
training plan will be designed to assist in their upgrade training.




                                 15
       6.5.2. Mission Ready PT. An MR PT is someone who is trained, current and available
       short-notice for world-wide deployment for contingency and non-contingency missions.
       MR PTs are responsible for immediately reporting any changes to their status to the
       HAAMS Program Manager.

       6.5.3. Requalification Training. Previously qualified PTs who have not been involved in
       airdrops for three years but less than five years will receive requalification training based
       on individual proficiency. Specific training requirements will be determined by the
       HAAMS Program Manager.

6.6. Continuation Training. MR PTs are specially trained and are qualified in various types of
oxygen support equipment and deploy on different types of MDS aircraft. As a result, MR PTs
must continuously improve their knowledge, skills and experience to be fully operational and
capable of supporting non-contingency and contingency operations.

       6.6.1. Readiness Skills Verification Program. The HAAMS Program Manager will
       design a quarterly training program that includes items listed in the ground and flight
       METL. The objective is to cover all items once/year. Special Interest Items, or high
       interest items as determined by leadership, may be added. NMR PTs may participate to
       fulfill requirements for MR status. RSVP training will be documented by the Unit
       Training Manager in the Medical Readiness Decision Support System (MRDSS).




                                                     CHARLES B. GREEN
                                                     Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                                     Surgeon General




                                                16
                                     ATTACHMENT 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 7 December 2006
AFI 11-202V1, Aircrew Training, 22 November 2010
AFI 11-202V3, General Flight Rules, 22 October 2010
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 10 December 2010
AFI 11-403, Aerospace Physiological Training Program, 20 February 2001
AFI 11-409, High Altitude Airdrop Mission Support Program, 1 December 1999
AFI 11-410, Personnel Parachute Operations, 4 August 2008
AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Program Management, 1 July 2011
AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support, 30 June 2006
AFTTP 3-42.8, Expeditionary Medical Logistic, 3 October 2011
T.O. 15X-2-6-11, Operation and Maintenance Instruction with Illustrated Parts Breakdown,
Parachute Oxygen Systems, 15 June 2003

Forms Utilized
DD Form 2795, Pre-Deployment Health Risk Assessment
DD Form 2796, Post Deployment Health Risk Assessment
DD Form 2900, Post-Deployment Health Reassessment
AF Form 702, Individual Physiological Training Record
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1042, Medical Recommendations for Flying for Special Operational Duty
AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training
AF Form 1274, Physiological Training
AF Form 1522, ARMS Additional Training Accomplishment Report
AF Form 1887, Aeronautical Order (PA) Aviation Service
AF Form 4022, Ground Training Folder
AF Form 4023, Aircrew Training Progress Report
AF Form 4024, Aircrew Training Accomplishment Report
AF Form 4025, Aircrew Summary/Close-Out Report
AFTO Form 781, ARMS Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEF                  Air Expeditionary Force
AFMAN                Air Force Manual
AFMLOC               Air Force Medical Logistics Operations Center
AFMOA                Air Force Medical Operations Agency
AFRIMS               Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSC                 Air Force Specialty Code
AFTTP                Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
AGL                  Above Ground Level
AMC                  Air Mobility Command

                                             17
AO       Aeronautical Orders
ARM      Aviation Records Management
ART      Aerospace Expeditionary Forces Reporting Tool
AS       Allowance Standard
ASC      Aviation Service Code
COMSEC   Communications Security
CONUS    Continental United States
DoD      Department of Defense
DRRS     Defense Readiness Reporting System
ESORTS   Enhanced Status of Resources and Training System
FEF      Flight Evaluation Folder
EP       Emergency Procedures
FL       Flight Level
HARM     Host Aviation Records Management (ARM) Office
HAAMS    High Altitude Airdrop Mission Support
HAHO     High Altitude High Opening
HALO     High Altitude Low Opening
HAP      High Altitude Parachutist
IAW      In Accordance With
LM       Loadmaster
MAJCOM   Major Command
MDS      Mission-Design Series
MEFPAK   Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging
MEGP     Mission Essential Ground Personnel
METL     Mission Essential Task List
MISCAP   Mission Capabilities
MISO     Military Information Support Operations
MR       Mission Ready
MRA      MEFPAK Responsible Agency
MRDSS    Medical Readiness Decision Support System
MSL      Mean Sea Level
MTF      Medical Treatment Facilities
MRL      Medical Resource Letter
NCOIC    Non-Commissioned Officer in Charge
NLT      Not Later Than
NMR      Non-Mission Ready
PsyOps   Psychological Operations
OCO      Overseas Contingency Operations
OPR      Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC    Operational Security
P/B      Pre-Breathing
PT       Physiology Technician
RDS      Records Disposition Schedule
RSVP     Readiness Skills Verification Program
SII      Special Interest Item
SOF      Special Operations Forces

                                18
SORTS     Status of Resources and Training
SIPRNET   Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SG        Surgeon General
TLAMM     Theater Lead Agent for Medical Materiel
TTP       Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
UTC       Unit Type Code




                                 19
                                  ATTACHMENT 2
                          APPROVED HAAMS EQUIPMENT LIST

For peacetime support of high altitude operations and readiness skills training, the following is a
list of equipment items for each unit with at least one UTC. Part #s are referenced from T.O.
15X-2-6-11 Opertion and Maintenance Instruction with Illustrated Parts Breakdown, Parachute
Oxygen Systems. Contact Little Rock AFB (DSN 731-7389) for vendor source.

MISSION ESSENTIAL:
Nomenclature                                     P/N                    QTY
Oxygen System, Portable, 6-Person               7920030-21                2
Oxygen System, Portable, 2-Person               8220006-5                 1
Oxygen supply hose assembly w/ 4-pin QD 7920031-9                        16
98 inch Hose assemblies (extensions)            8130007-1                10
Transient Case, 6-Person                        9080001                   2
Transient Case, 2-Person                        9080002                   1
100-Cubic Inch Portable Oxygen System           9320113-3                 3
   w/ Satchel Assembly
Airox VIII Oxygen Metering Valve                8520031-1                 3
Oxygen Charging Assembly                        T80-3007-9                2
Wrist Altimeter MA3-30 or suitable sub                                    2
Oxygen Systems Tool Kit or suitable sub         9080000                   1
   (locally purchased tool kits may be built using fig 7-33 as a model)
Torso Harness PCU-15/P                                                    2
Watch w/ stopwatch capability                    Local purchase           2
Console tie-down assembly or suitable sub       8220012-1                 6
A/C compatible Comm cord extension                                        2
Test Kit (Airox VIII, oxygen consoles)          8820061-1                 1
High impedance microphone (C-17)                                          4
Medical Kit                                      Locally built            2
Dry-erase slate (passing messages to jumpers) Local purchase              2
Components, on-off valve                        9020161                   3
   (100-Cubic Inch Portable Oxygen System)
Spare Parts Kits (locally built to repair oxygen masks, helmets,
   and portable oxygen systems)
Flashlights (red lens)                           Local purchase           2
Aircraft Cargo Straps                                                     4
Mobility Bag Equipment for Personnel Assigned to a HAAMS UTC:
Body Armor (AF approved for flight)                                       1
Survival vest (AF approved, compatible with body armor)                   1
Cold weather clothing                                                     1
Sleeping bag (light weight/compact)              Local purchase           1




                                                20
Nomenclature                     P/N              QTY
Backpack-style Water Container   Local purchase    1
Gortex jacket/pants              Local purchase    1 each
Backpack                         Local purchase    1 each
Carabiner                        Local purchase    2 each




                                   21
