BY ORDER OF                                           AIR FORCE TACTICS, TECHNIQUES
THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                 AND PROCEDURES 3-42.8
                                                                              5 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                                Tactical Doctrine

                              EXPEDITIONARY MEDICAL LOGISTICS (EML) SYSTEM

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the Air Force e-Publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: AFMOA/SGALX                                            Certified by: HQ USAF/SG3X
Supersedes AFTTP 3-42.8, 5 Jan 04                                     (Col Tracy A. Tenney)
                                                                                 Pages: 34

SUMMARY OF CHANGES: This publication has been substantially revised and should be
completely reviewed. NOTE: Deleted the Blood Support Operations chapter in its entirety (to
be included in the revised AFTTP 3-42.711, Blood Support Operations.

PURPOSE: The Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-42 series of
publications is the primary reference for medical combat support capability. This document,
AFTTP 3-42.8, provides tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP) for the Expeditionary
Medical Logistics (EML) System. Ensure all records created as a result of the processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFPD 33-3, Information
Management, and AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF IMT 847 through the appropriate
chain of command and parent Major Command (MAJCOM).

APPLICATION: This publication applies to all Air Force military and civilian personnel
(including Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units and
members). The doctrine in this document is authoritative but not directive.

SCOPE: This document provides the AFTTP for the EML System. The EML System was
designed and is executed to provide global support and sustainment to Air and Space
Expeditionary Force (AEF) forces. This AFTTP may be used as a guide for validating future
requirements and revisions to appropriate planning and training concepts. Medical Logistics
personnel will be deployed to meet specific requirements for various military missions. To meet
this requirement, Medical Logistics personnel must have the knowledge and training to
successfully sustain a deployed medical force through the full spectrum of military operations. It
is imperative that planners and medical personnel understand logistics and distribution processes
to meet the deployment and sustainment challenges of AEF forces.
2                                                                           AFTTP 3-42.8


                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                   Page
CHAPTER 1 – GENERAL                                                                   4
1.1. Mission/Tasks                                                                    4
1.2. Background                                                                       4
1.3. Focused Logistics                                                                4
1.4. In-Transit Visibility (ITV)                                                      5
1.5. Threat                                                                           5

CHAPTER 2 – ORGANIZATIONS, ROLES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                7
2.1. Air Force Surgeon General (SG)                                                   7
2.2. Assistant Surgeon General, Health Care Operations                                7
2.3. Air Force Medical Logistics Division                                             7
2.4. Air Force Forces Surgeon (AFFOR/SG)                                              8
2.5. Medical/Operational Planners                                                     8
2.6. Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging (MEFPAK) Responsible Agencies
     (MRAs)                                                                           8
2.7. Medical Logistics Personnel                                                      9
2.8. Sustaining Base                                                                  9
2.9. Support for Ground Medical Units                                                10
2.10. Support for AE and En-Route Care Units                                         10
2.11. Support for Special Operations Units                                           10
2.12. Augmentation and Sustainment Medical Logistics Support UTCs                    11
2.13. Theater Lead Agent for Medical Materiel (TLAMM) Force Module/Operational
       Capabilities Package (OCP)                                                    12
2.14. Other Medical Unit Support                                                     12
2.15. Non-Medical and Special Operations Unit Support                                12
2.16. Patient Movement Items (PMI) Program                                           12
2.17. Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS)                                             14

CHAPTER 3 – OPERATIONS                                                               15
3.1. Employment                                                                      15
3.2. Deployment/Redeployment                                                         16
3.3. Sustainment                                                                     17
3.4. Materiel Management                                                             18
3.5. Medical Maintenance                                                             18
3.6. Facility Management                                                             19

CHAPTER 4 – COMMAND AND CONTROL (C2) RELATIONSHIPS                                   21
4.1. Command and Control (C2)                                                        21
4.2. Nodes                                                                           21

CHAPTER 5 – INTELLIGENCE                                                             22
5.1. Health Service Logistics Support (HSLS) Planning                                22
5.2. Medical Intelligence                                                            22
AFTTP 3-42.8                                                  3


CHAPTER 6 – COMMUNICATIONS/COMPUTER SYSTEMS SUPPORT          23
6.1. Organic Communications Equipment                        23
6.2. Communications                                          23
6.3. Information Management/Technology                       24
6.4. Computer Applications                                   25
6.5. Health Service Logistics Support (HSLS)                 25
6.6. Patient Movement Items Tracking System (PMITS)          26

CHAPTER 7 – INTEGRATION AND INTEROPERABILITY                 28
7.1. Integration with Other Systems/Teams                    28
7.2. Interoperability                                        28

CHAPTER 8 – TRAINING                                         31
8.1. Medical Readiness Training                              31
8.2. Mission-Specific Training for Medical Logistics Teams   31

ATTACHMENT 1 – GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND
               SUPPORTING INFORMATION                        32

FIGURES
3-1. Air Force Medical Sustainment Flowchart                 15
6-1. Air Force Theater System Connectivity                   24
7-1. Organization for HSLS                                   29
4                                                                                       AFTTP 3-42.8


                                           CHAPTER 1

                                            GENERAL

    “Logistics comprises the means and arrangements which work out the plans of strategy and
          tactics. Strategy decides where to act; logistics brings the troops to this point.”
                                                       Jomini, Pr’ecis de l’ Art de la Guerre. 1838

1.1. Mission/Tasks. The Expeditionary Medical Logistics (EML) System provides time-
definite resupply of materiel by synchronizing the flow of materiel, information, and funds from
initial unit request to delivery. It uses a pull process for resupply and a repair and return process
for medical maintenance to minimize inventory (footprint) and airlift requirements. The EML
system consists of focused logistics and agile combat support (ACS) concepts, which provide
tailored logistics packages to the deployed medical unit by utilizing a predetermined supply
chain. Both concepts are required to meet Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF)
deployment and sustainment challenges. By adopting commercial business practices, the EML
system streamlines the requisition process for the deployed medical unit and eliminates or
significantly reduces support structures.

1.2. Background. An AEF consists of tailored and rapidly deployable forces – a fundamental
shift from the previous philosophy of massive reinforcement of fixed overseas support structures
and basing. To support and sustain an AEF and medical forces, the Air Force Surgeon General
directed an EML system be developed and executed. The Air Force Medical Operations
Agency/Air Force Medical Logistics Office (AFMOA/AFMLO) designed and developed the
EML system and Air Force Medical Logistics Global Support Center to provide crucial guidance
to medical personnel during all phases of deployment.

    1.2.1. ACS is crucial to the Air Force philosophy of power-projection – the deployment of
    Air Force personnel primarily from the continental United States (CONUS). ACS is the
    rapid movement of required materiel directly from factory to flight line, providing a
    reachback sustainment capability for medical and other deployed personnel. This allows for
    a much smaller logistical footprint in the operating theater. Given the reliance on reachback,
    the deployment and sustainment challenges are tremendous. Air and sealift may be severely
    limited.

    1.2.2. Reachback is the process of obtaining products, services, and applications, or forces,
    or equipment, or material from organizations that are not forward-deployed (Joint Publication
    3-30, Command and Control for Joint Air Operations). Reachback is a critical enabler to
    EML. After Operation Enduring Freedom, the Deputy Central Command (CENTCOM)
    Surgeon stated, “Never before has reachback been tested on such a large operational
    scale…it’s working in principle and in execution…this would not be happening without the
    great work of our logistics community.”

1.3. Focused Logistics. The primary goal of focused logistics is compression of customer wait
time (customers get their materiel faster). To achieve this goal, customers and suppliers must
employ effective information management practices and have timely access to reliable and
secure telecommunication channels.
AFTTP 3-42.8                                                                                        5




   1.3.1. Focused logistics is the combination of information and logistics technologies to
   ensure required materiel arrives at the right time at the right place, every time, no matter
   where or at what level the conflict. New transportation systems will enable the shift from
   supply-based systems to manufacturer-direct or prime vendor (PV) delivery. The
   management of mission and logistics requirements relies on rapid, reliable, and time-definite
   transportation systems to reduce the need for maintaining excessive on-hand stock.

   1.3.2. Focused logistics requires the Services and Combatant Commanders (CCDRs) to
   reduce forward inventories to a minimal amount (also known as the reduced footprint
   concept) and relies instead on consistent resupply. The idea of reduced footprint is intended
   to apply not only to inventory but also to other support systems, such as a hospital. This
   reliance on transportation and throughput requires careful analysis, confidence on the part of
   the CCDR, and continued access to ports.

1.4. In-Transit Visibility (ITV). ITV is necessary to ensure smooth flow of supplies and
sustainment. Plan to establish ITV procedures and ITV nodes at all ports of embarkation, transit
points, and ports of debarkation. Lack of ITV may cause loss of confidence in the supply system
and create unnecessary ordering and an unnecessary burden on limited supply lines.

1.5. Threat. Medical logistics capabilities may be impacted by direct threats to the supply line
as well as by threats to U.S. forces, installations, and information systems.

   1.5.1. Supply Line Disruption. Supply lines may be disrupted by combat-related activities,
   supply shortages, transportation delays, and the like. It is important to outline the threat to
   transportation channels used for focused logistics and reachback. Buffer stock placed at
   locations like Loaner Repair and Return Centers (LRRC) can be used to mitigate these risks.

   1.5.2. Targeting of Medical Facilities. Medical facilities are potential targets of terrorist
   organizations trying to disrupt health service support (HSS) response capabilities.

   1.5.3. Medical Threat. The Air Force responds globally to a broad range of situations
   requiring medical care. Additional materiel requirements may be necessary to support
   events. The force health protection (FHP) goal is to prevent casualties resulting from the
   physical and mental stress caused by environmental, occupational, operational, and chemical,
   biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) warfare threats.

       1.5.3.1. Disease and Non-Battle Injury (DNBI). The degree of this threat depends on
       geographical location, and is determined by endemic disease, climate, and socioeconomic
       conditions. Preventive medicine teams, theater epidemiology teams, proper waste
       management, consultation with specialists, availability of advanced treatment modalities
       and diagnostics, and medical information management systems are required to minimize
       this threat.

       1.5.3.2. Conventional and Exotic/Unconventional Weapons. These weapons carry the
       potential to inflict injury in various forms. Effective treatment is dependent on rapid
       access to appropriate medical personnel, appropriate use of equipment and techniques
6                                                                                      AFTTP 3-42.8


       representative of the current standard of care, possible specialty consultation, access to
       medical information, ability to rapidly process tests and data, a communication network,
       and possible air evacuation.

       1.5.3.3. Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD). Nuclear weapons range greatly in size
       and energy yield. Nuclear capability is possessed by a growing number of countries.
       Blast and thermal injury will account for most of the casualties, and radiation effects can
       be significant. The threat results from individual injury and the potential for a very large
       number of casualties over a very short period of time, which would severely burden the
       whole medical evacuation and treatment system. These weapons are less discriminating
       than conventional weapons and will likely result in a large number of casualties.

    1.5.4. Information Warfare. Our heavy reliance on information systems makes them
    attractive targets to potential adversaries. The threats to these systems are worldwide,
    technically diverse, and growing rapidly. Network Control Center (NCC) Information
    Assurance (IA) programs provide information systems security support for the deployed
    medical facility (DMF). The medical facility abides by the Air Force Forces/Air and Space
    Expeditionary Task Force (AFFOR/AETF) Network Operations and Security Center–
    Deployed (NOSC-D) and NCC communications design architectures, operational rules of
    engagement, and Major Command (MAJCOM) preferred product lists to minimize the threat.
    Protecting data is of vital importance and backup capability must be designed into the
    information infrastructure, especially in providing medical asset visibility and in facilitating
    materiel movement.
AFTTP 3-42.8                                                                                     7


                                          CHAPTER 2

                 ORGANIZATIONS, ROLES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Air Force Surgeon General (SG). The SG ensures medical units are sourced and
supported with deployable medical assets to meet the full spectrum of military operations. The
SG also determines EML doctrine and policy and provides the required resources necessary to
execute and sustain the EML process, both at the MAJCOM and unit levels.

2.2. Assistant Surgeon General, Health Care Operations. The Assistant Surgeon General,
Health Care Operations, provides oversight authority for all aspects of training related to EML to
include the incorporation of EML concepts into all applicable Air Force Medical Service
(AFMS) education and training courses. The Assistant Surgeon General also coordinates and
consolidates Program Objective Memorandum (POM) submissions to support EML execution,
training, and war reserve materiel (WRM) requirements.

2.3. Air Force Medical Logistics Division. The Air Force Medical Logistics Division
maintains the Air Force Medical Logistics Operations Center (AFMLOC), located at Ft. Detrick,
Maryland. The AFMLOC is the center for Air Force medical supply chain management. The
Division also maintains three CONUS Consolidated Storage and Deployment Centers (CSDCs)
at Port San Antonio, TX, Travis Air Force Base (AFB), CA, and Charleston, SC. The CSDCs
provide a full range of medical logistics capabilities, enabling the execution of the EML supply
chain.

   2.3.1. The AFMLOC coordinates with Total Force (Active Duty, Guard, and Reserve)
   component medical planners and logisticians of the unified commands to ensure medical
   requirements are identified in operation plans (OPLANs), exercises, and real-time operations.

   2.3.2. The AFMLOC executes, monitors, and reports the supply chain process to the SG as
   required; validates resource requirements for supply chain nodes and requests manpower
   assistance as appropriate; and communicates issues, problems, or solutions to the SG,
   MAJCOMs, AFFOR Surgeon (AFFOR/SG) staff, and Component Numbered Air Force
   Surgeon (C-NAF/SG) staff.

   2.3.3. The AFMLOC develops, publishes, and monitors guidance on supply chain
   management for MAJCOMs and deployed medical units. Additionally, the AFMLOC
   obtains and manages the funding stream for shipping costs. Specifically, the AFMLOC
   maintains information on airflow operations and logistics points of contact (POC).

   2.3.4. The AFMLOC is the primary POC for the Combined Air Operations Center (CAOC),
   the deployed unit, and the sustaining base on materiel and supply chain issues. The
   AFMLOC will maintain a log with the issues and coordinate resolution with various agencies
   and commands.

   2.3.5. The AFMLOC is responsible for reachback medical logistics in support of the
   AFFOR/SG and determines the strategy to support the AFFOR/SG medical logistics plan for
   the Area of Responsibility (AOR).
8                                                                                   AFTTP 3-42.8




    2.3.6. CDSCs hold consolidation of medical equipment Unit Type Codes (UTCs). CSDCs
    have the capability to accomplish the full range of maintenance on most medical and non-
    medical equipment. The CSDCs reduce the risk of loss and non-availability of airlift to
    opposite coasts. CSDCs can be used as a sustaining base as part of Air Force Global Medical
    Logistics support.

    2.3.7. AFMOA/SGSLW (Port San Antonio, TX) is designated by the Joint Chiefs of Staff as
    the Theater Lead Agent for Medical Materiel (TLAMM) for Southern Command
    (SOUTHCOM). A TLAMM serves as a major theater medical distribution node and is the
    customer interface for medical logistics and supply chain management. A TLAMM is
    normally responsible for the provision of all core medical logistics functions required to
    support HSS and FHP operations. These functions include medical supply, medical
    equipment maintenance, optical fabrication, assembly and fielding of medical assemblages,
    and management of vaccines, investigational drugs, special equipment, and other medical
    materiel subject to special interest or control by the Joint Force Surgeon (JFS). See Chapter
    7, Integration and Interoperability, of this TTP for more information about the TLAMM and
    joint interoperability. See JP 4-02, Health Service Support, for more information on Health
    Service Logistic Support (HSLS) in joint operations.

2.4. Air Force Forces Surgeon (AFFOR/SG). The AFFOR/SG is responsible for AFFOR
medical logistics in the AOR. The AFFOR/SG (supporting the Component Numbered Air Force
[C-NAF], the operational arm of the Air Force in the AOR) identifies requirements for medical
logistics manpower augmentation teams to support AFFOR; documents medical logistics
manpower augmentation team shortfalls to supporting MAJCOMs; and coordinates logistics
support plans with the AFMLOC. When medical logistics elements are assigned in the theater to
support supply chain operations, the AFFOR/SG facilitates coordination between the elements
and deployed medical personnel. This ensures the deploying element and the local commander
have a clear understanding of the responsibilities and duties the element will provide in support
of the operation.

2.5. Medical/Operational Planners. Air Force component medical and operational planners
verify with the AFMLOC that medical logistics requirements are identified in OPLANs,
exercises, and real-time operations (NOTE: Under the Air Force Command and Control (C2)
Enabling Concept, operational planners reside at C-NAFs.) Some important logistics
considerations are local oxygen support capability, local linen support, local hazardous waste
disposal, and available power, fuel, and communications capability.

2.6. Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging (MEFPAK) Responsible Agencies
(MRAs). To maintain the viability and effectiveness of its deployable medical capabilities, the
AFMS has assigned MRA responsibilities to three MAJCOMs: Air Combat Command (ACC),
Air Mobility Command (AMC), and Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC). UTC
pilot units work closely with the MRAs to construct and review UTCs, associated mission
capability (MISCAP) statements, manpower details, and allowance standards. MRAs request
funding for the modernization and sustainment of their UTCs through Line of the Air Force
(LAF) and medical programming channels. UTCs are dynamic and are continuously reviewed
AFTTP 3-42.8                                                                                            9


and modified. Medical planners should consult with the appropriate MRA to obtain the most
current information.


   2.6.1. ACC is the MRA for medical ground support personnel and equipment UTCs and
   medical counter-CBRN (MC-CBRN) allowance standards (AS).

   2.6.2. AMC is the MRA for aeromedical evacuation (AE), patient staging, aeromedical
   enroute care support personnel and equipment UTCs and patient movement items (PMI).

   2.6.3. AFSOC is the MRA for special operations medical personnel and equipment UTCs.

   2.6.4. Pacific Air Forces (PACAF) and United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) may
   maintain responsibility for theater-unique capabilities with Air Staff approval.

   2.6.5. Air National Guard (ANG) will maintain responsibility for ANG capabilities related to
   Title 32 United States Code (USC) operations. Title 10 USC operations are governed by the
   active duty MRAs.

2.7. Medical Logistics Personnel. All medical logistics personnel must have the knowledge
and training to successfully sustain a deployed medical unit through the full spectrum of military
operations.

2.8. Sustaining Base.

   2.8.1. The sustaining base is the materiel lifeline of any deployed medical unit. It augments
   the deployed medical unit’s limited logistical capability by assuming the bulk of the supply
   chain’s administrative, sourcing, and tracking functions. The AFFOR/SG, in coordination
   with the AFMLOC, determines the sustaining base. The sustaining base is typically located
   within CONUS in close proximity to available commercial materiel resources and can
   leverage a wider array of transportation options. A sustaining base located outside the
   continental United States (OCONUS) may be utilized if it increases the expediency of the
   supply chain and is more cost effective than a CONUS sustaining base.

   2.8.2. The sustaining base is normally collocated with a CONUS medical center and has two
   major advantages: (1) direct access to a large number of suppliers experienced in large-scale
   logistics support, and (2) in-house providers who can rapidly identify substitutes or
   alternatives for medical items not readily available.

   2.8.3. The sustaining base normally activates an extended workday or on-call operations
   center to respond to short-notice deployments. Once activated, the sustaining base
   establishes secure communications with the deployed medical unit and acts as the unit’s
   logistics link through the duration of the deployment or until a theater supply chain is
   established. As the deployed medical unit’s one-stop shop for materiel sustainment and
   information, the sustaining base will notify the unit of substitutions and fill initial outfitting
   shortages identified by the deploying unit’s home base.
10                                                                                    AFTTP 3-42.8


     2.8.4. The sustaining base ensures that equipment requirements receive immediate
     consideration because of the limited inventories of items such as spare parts, tools, and test
     equipment as well as limited availability of experienced biomedical equipment technicians
     (BMETs) in deployed medical assemblages. It uses a combination of rapid spare-part
     procurement, replacement equipment procurement, and (potentially) repairs and returns from
     a central location.

     2.8.5. The sustaining base may activate the Prime Vendor (PV) Air Expeditionary Force
     (AEF) contract clause and act as the primary conduit of information and guidance for
     resupply of deployed medical units (PV AEF clauses require vendors to make requested
     materiel available for transport within 8 hours, 7 days a week).

2.9. Support for Ground Medical Units. Medical materiel personnel (4A1X1) assigned to
ground medical UTCs are responsible for managing the supply needs of the DMF. BMET
personnel (4A2X1) are responsible for biomedical equipment maintenance and facility
management.

     2.9.1. UTC FFEP2, Medical EMEDS/AFTH Command and Control (C2), provides the
     initial medical logistics support for EMEDS facilities.

     2.9.2. UTC FFEP3, Medical EMEDS/AFTH 10-Bed Personnel Augmentation, provides
     additional medical logistics personnel to augment an EMEDS+10 or Air Force Theater
     Hospital (AFTH).

     2.9.3. UTC FFEP4, Medical EMEDS/AFTH 25-Bed Personnel Augmentation provides
     additional medical logistics personnel to augment an EMEDS+25 or AFTH.

2.10. Support for AE and En-Route Care Units. Medical logistics personnel assigned to AE
and en-route care UTCs are tasked with satisfying the medical supply needs of the deployed
units.

     2.10.1. Medical logistics personnel support the following AE and en-route care UTCs:

        FFQCC, AE Command Squadron
        FFQCM, AE Operations Team Augmentation
        FFQNT, AE Operations Team
        FFQSC, AE Support Cell
        FFVCF, Contingency Aeromedical Staging Facility (CASF) Command Function
        FFVSF, CASF Specialty Function

     2.10.2. The 10-bed Mobile Aeromedical Staging Facility (MASF) requires medical supply
     support to begin seven days after setup.

2.11. Support for Special Operations Units. Theater medical planning guidance generally
requires units to deploy with a 30-day package of medical supplies during initial deployment.
For AFSOC units, the deployment load will vary based on mission requirements and operational
constraints. To determine medical logistic requirements, medical planners must consider the
AFTTP 3-42.8                                                                                           11


mission and its duration, the availability of supplies at the mission location, and the availability
of alternate medical supply sources in the event the conventional supply system breaks down.

   2.11.1. AFSOC medical forces possess limited logistics support capabilities. In many
   Special Operations Forces (SOF) operations, the short-term, covert, or low-visibility nature
   of the operation may not allow or require establishment of a resupply mechanism.
   Consequently, such operations may require particularly careful coordination to ensure
   resupply when and if necessary. When deployed with AFSOC equipment UTCs, AFSOC
   medical assets are normally capable of providing medical support to a deployed AFSOC unit
   for up to 30 days without resupply.

   2.11.2. During covert/clandestine operations, AFSOC medical units deploy with adequate
   medical supplies and equipment to ensure they have the capability to support operational
   requirements. When resupply is required, SOF medical planners establish resupply through a
   variety of mechanisms, which includes support from a host medical treatment facility (MTF),
   in-country embassy or Military Assistance Group (MILGRP), home station, or main
   operating base. When deployed in support of a major regional conflict, AFSOC medical
   logistics support is provided by the conventional HSS system. Prior coordination with the
   host MTF or Joint Task Force (JTF)/SG will help ensure adequate medical logistics support
   is available.

   2.11.3. SOF medical logistics are normally coordinated through the SOF medical plans
   officer and are provided by the nearest conventional medical logistics unit if the SOF medics
   are deployed to a mature theater. If the SOF medics are located in an immature theater, the
   team will coordinate resupply using local or regional resources when appropriate.
   Predetermined PMI may need to be placed at forward or intermediate staging bases.

   2.11.4. Medical involvement in all phases of mission planning is essential for mission
   success. AFSOC logisticians, working with line and medical planners, have the requirement
   base to plan and predict the acquisition and flow of WRM supplies and maintenance that
   special operations medics require. Their knowledge allows essential strategies to be
   formulated to ensure adequate equipment and supplies for deployed SOF medical assets.
   Logistic objectives are to reduce the physical footprint for deployment without degradation
   of medical capability, maintain portability, and provide a logistics support system to ensure
   responsive sustainment.

2.12. Augmentation and Sustainment Medical Logistics Support UTCs.

   2.12.1. Medical Biomedical Equipment Maintenance Team (FFBMM). FFBMM
   provides support personnel to augment biomedical equipment maintenance and facility
   management support to EMEDS DMFs, AFTHs, and other ground medical operations. The
   team also deploys to PMI Centers and Cells to support AE operations.

   2.12.2. Medical Logistics Manpower Augmentation Team (FFLG1). FFLG1 provides
   medical logistics support personnel to EMEDS DMFs and other facilities. The team may
   deploy to other logistics nodes, such as distribution hubs and military depots located near
   aerial ports of embarkation (APOE) or aerial ports of debarkation (APOD), to facilitate the
12                                                                                  AFTTP 3-42.8


     flow of materiel and information. The team also deploys to PMI Centers and Cells to support
     AE operations.

     2.12.3. Medical Logistics Management Team (FFLGM). FFLGM provides medical
     logistics support personnel during sustained medical operations. The team deploys to an
     EMEDS/AFTH where medical logistics is already established.

2.13. Theater Lead Agent for Medical Materiel (TLAMM) Force Module/Operational
Capabilities Package (OCP). This medical logistics team provides medical logistics leadership,
materiel management, supply distribution, and biomedical equipment maintenance support. The
force module consists of one FFLGM, four FFLG1, and one FFBMM UTCs. The team deploys
to support the initial transition of an Air Force designated provisional TLAMM from baseline
capability to immediate and full operating capacity.

2.14. Other Medical Unit Support. Medical logistics personnel are also assigned to the
following medical UTCs:

     FFBD1, Medical Frozen Blood Product Team
     FFBP1, Medical Expeditionary Blood Transshipment Center, Module 1
     FFBP3, Medical Expeditionary Blood Transshipment Center, Module 3
     FFGLB, Medical Patient Decon Team
     FFHA4, Medical CT Scan Team
     FFSGQ, Medical AFFOR Medical Staff, Increment 1

2.15. Non-Medical and Special Operations Unit Support. Medical logistics personnel may
support the following expeditionary non-medical and special operations UTCs. Note that
medical logistics personnel provide only medical logistics support to these UTCs and function
only in non-combatant roles.

     7PRCS, PR Guardian Angel Combat Support
     81RSG, STT Medical Supply
     81SLG, STT Special Tactics Logistics
     9AAB1, HQS AFFOR QRP
     9AAB2, HQS AFFOR LRP
     9AAB3, HQS AFFOR TRP
     9ACRG, HQS Contingency Response Group HQ
     9AFWD, HQS COMAFFOR/JFACC Forward Staff
     CT17F, HHQ 17AF AFAFRICA AFFOR Staff
     CT1A5, HHQ AFNORTH AFFOR A-5 Augmentation
     CT1AF, HHQ 1AF HQ AFNORTH AFFOR Core
     FFQE2, Medical SOF CAA Medical Augmentation
     FFQET, Medical SOF IW/SSTR Medical Team Augmentation

2.16. PMI Program. Specific Global Patient Movement Joint Advisory Board (GPMJAB) and
Defense Medical Standardization Board (DMSB) approved medical equipment and durable
supplies required to support the patient during evacuation are referred to as PMI. Examples of
PMI include ventilators, litters, patient monitors, and pulse oximeters. PMI teams are composed
AFTTP 3-42.8                                                                                     13


of medical material specialists (FFLG1) and BMETs (FFBMM). Combined, this logistics team
provides manpower for operational management of a PMI center. Medical material teams will
manage PMI equipment, supplies, accountability/acquisition of required material, and facilitate
equipment recycling, scanning, and tracking in the Patient Movement Items Tracking System
(PMITS). Equipment repair teams support regional maintenance and repair capability for
equipment in PMI centers and/or cells. These teams will provide scheduled preventative
maintenance and calibration, repair and maintenance services, and updates to the PMI
information system. FFBM1 is the deployable medical calibration and maintenance equipment
to perform biomedical maintenance on the deployed PMI. FFQP3 is a notional UTC comprised
of PMI that can be tailored to a specific need to include whatever PMI equipment/supplies are
necessary for a deployed site. FFQP4 is a deployable PMITS used to track PMI in the deployed
area. It consists of a backpack, PMITS laptop, external hard drive, and scanners.

   2.16.1. United States Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM) is the PMI system
   manager (JP 4-02, Health Service Support). The Air Force is the PMI program execution
   agency responsible for resourcing, maintaining, and recycling PMI to support contingency
   operations for patient movement. Headquarters AMC Surgeon’s Office (HQ AMC/SG) is
   the program management, execution, and action office for the Air Force. All services will
   fund the original initial quantities of approved PMI in-kind assets. PMI in-kind assets are
   defined as the exact medical equipment by type and model approved for patient movement.
   All services will maintain initial quantities of approved PMI in-kind equipment in their
   medical assemblages, kits/sets/outfits, table of allowance, or AS. This will ensure program
   standardization and the ability to seamlessly support patient movement. This capability is
   critical to enabling the PMI system to properly recycle/replace medical equipment in medical
   assemblages and to ensure their designed operational capability is not diminished due to
   equipment shortfalls. The Air Force manages patient movement requirements and is
   responsible for life-cycle management of the equipment assets that reside in the PMI centers.
   PMI is not intended to supplement service assemblages for use in facilities.

   2.16.2. The objective of the PMI program is to sustain patient movement through the AE
   system without diminishing the capability of forward medical units. The PMI program
   manages all PMI assets and provides sufficient assets to sustain AE operations or provide for
   in-kind exchange when PMI accompanies a patient in the AE system. This is done by
   providing equipment for treatment continuity or by using equipment that is Service-specific
   and DMSB approved. The PMI system will provide a seamless in-transit patient and/or
   equipment management process from initial entry to the patient’s final destination. The
   PMITS and PMI will deploy with the AE system, be managed and supplied through the AE
   system, and collocate with AE intratheater and/or intertheater interfaces to provide initial AE
   operational capability, sustainment of AE operations, and minimize equipment turnaround
   time.

   2.16.3. Medical logistics personnel manage inventory availability (at PMI centers and cells),
   asset visibility, and flow of PMI through available transportation methods to meet
   requirements.

   2.16.4. The handling and return of equipment to the originating theater through the AE
   system requires a reliable supporting logistics infrastructure to ensure that PMIs are available
14                                                                                    AFTTP 3-42.8


     and serviceable. The plan for a PMI exchange system and the return of evacuation
     equipment and PMIs to the originating theater should be addressed in the respective theater
     OPLAN.

     2.16.5. PMI Center levels are based on projected casualty flow and time-phased recycling of
     PMI assets. Timely recycling is essential to maintain and contain our total inventory
     investment. All services are responsible for tracking and returning PMI assets to the closest
     PMI Center.

     2.16.6. PMI equipment is tested and certified for use on applicable service rotary and fixed-
     wing aircraft. Service en-route care teams (i.e., Air Force AE Crews and Critical Care Air
     Transport Teams [CCATT]) will be trained to operate PMI equipment items. An Air Force
     Form 4033, PMI/AE Certification Label or joint certification label is required to designate
     airworthiness certification for all PMI equipment. This certification label must be affixed to
     each piece of PMI certified equipment. Key to successful patient treatment and movement is
     ensuring medical equipment assets are bar-coded, loaded in PMITS, available for patient
     treatment, tracked in transit, and recycled to MTFs.

     2.16.7. PMI equipment is placed on the patient by the sending MTF. PMI Centers will
     recycle or replace particular PMI equipment removed from the Service medical facilities to
     support patient movement events. PMI levels at local MTFs will be determined by local
     commanders with the minimum prepositioned levels equal to three days of expected worst-
     case patient flow.

2.17. Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS). ECS for deploying medical units is provided by
Air Force, other Department of Defense (DOD) forces, coalition forces, or host nations to ensure
medical infrastructure and environment of care requirements are supported. Examples of ECS
include local oxygen support capability, local linen support, and local hazardous waste disposal.
ECS should be defined in OPLANs, deployment orders, memorandums of understanding, and
memorandums of agreement with the various ECS agencies.
AFTTP 3-42.8                                                                                 15


                                        CHAPTER 3

                                       OPERATIONS

3.1. Employment.

   3.1.1. The AFFOR/SG provides the AFMLOC and deploying medical logistics personnel
   with information about intratheater airflow and distribution nodes. This information, along
   with that from AFFOR logistician POCs, ensures the most efficient and effective supply
   chain is developed for the operation. The AFFOR/SG establishes equipment and supply
   review policy to aid deployed commanders in validating requirements. This ensures mission
   requirements can be met and that all activities in the supply chain are focused on procuring
   and distributing the necessary materiel.

   3.1.2. The AFFOR/SG, in coordination with the AFMLOC and sustaining base, identifies
   the deployment requirements for medical logistics manpower augmentation teams to support
   the plan. The AFFOR/SG begins the process of requesting the augmentation teams for
   deployment to the agreed-upon logistics nodes.

   3.1.3. The sustaining base and the AFMLOC coordinate with USTRANSCOM and
   combatant command planners to ensure the most expeditious transportation nodes are used
   for sustainment. Commercial contract carriers are used to the maximum extent possible. It is
   essential to minimize the number of nodes through which materiel must transit and eliminate
   consolidation to reduce delays (see Figure 3-1, Air Force Medical Sustainment Flowchart).




                    Figure 3-1. Air Force Medical Sustainment Flowchart

   3.1.4. The supporting Medical Equipment Repair Center (MERC) and/or PMI Cell acts as a
   hub for medical equipment repairs and calibrations that cannot be accomplished at the
   deployed site. AFFOR/SG will coordinate a support agreement between the MERC and PMI
16                                                                                     AFTTP 3-42.8


     Cell and deployed medical sites that describes what services and equipment the MERC
     and/or PMI Cell is capable of providing and how the deployed BMET should arrange for this
     support. If required due to increased workload, a BMET personnel UTC will be requested to
     augment the MERC and/or PMI Cell. The deployed BMET will determine if the equipment
     can be repaired, calibrated locally, or if should be replaced.

3.2. Deployment/Redeployment.

     3.2.1. Deployed Medical Unit.

        3.2.1.1. The deployed medical unit may be multiple UTCs with one or more WRM
        assemblages that provide medical support in response to war, contingency operations,
        disaster and humanitarian relief operations, exercises, or any operation that requires the
        assemblage to be moved from storage to operational use.

        3.2.1.2. A deployed medical unit accomplishes unit resupply responsibilities as
        referenced in applicable Air Force instructions, manuals, and deployment
        orders/guidance. They coordinate with the AFFOR, AFMLOC, and the sustaining base
        before deployment to obtain specific instructions during all phases of deployment.

        3.2.1.3. Upon arrival in theater, the deployed medical unit initiates communication with
        the sustaining base and works with deployed communications and systems personnel to
        secure a permanent communications solution. They notify the sustaining base of issues
        related to supply maintenance and ensure that resupply requirements are identified and
        coordinated. It is important to obtain solid shipping addresses, including a commercial
        address.

        3.2.1.4 Resupply requirements are identified to the sustainment base as one of three
        priorities: urgent (96 hours), immediate (7 days), or routine (30 days). Communications
        and coordination by the deployed unit with the AFMLOC and sustaining base on materiel
        and maintenance issues are critical to meet EML time-definite delivery goals.

        3.2.1.5. The deployed medical unit appoints a primary POC to communicate various
        logistics issues with all nodes. The POC updates appropriate contingency and annual
        training or exercise schedules to ensure EML personnel, equipment, and training are
        incorporated to meet Concept of Operations (CONOPS) requirements. Deployed
        personnel identify shortfalls in personnel, equipment, and training, and educate line and
        medical personnel, especially commanders, on the EML process and capabilities. When
        required supplies are received, the deployed medical unit notifies either the sustaining
        base or AFMLOC, or they update the automated information system (AIS) to ensure the
        transaction is closed within the Global Transportation Network (GTN).

        3.2.1.6. Once deployed and mission capable, a unit takes action to ensure logistics
        support. Logistics personnel must register on Medical Logistics List Servers to receive
        Quality Assurance/Recall Notices, the online Air Force Medical Logistics Letter, and
        Medical Equipment Device Alerts. They coordinate with the local Office of Special
        Investigations (OSI) to validate local vendors outside the pre-approved list and
AFTTP 3-42.8                                                                                      17


       communicate with other medical units in the area to understand their mission and
       possible resupply requirements. Coordination with AE units is necessary to establish a
       process for obtaining PMI in-kind exchange replacements and to establish supply chain
       synergies. Deployed units should closely coordinate with the AFFOR/SG to ensure
       requirements beyond the units’ AS are reviewed before submission to the sustaining base.

   3.2.2. Transportation. Each deployment of a medical assemblage can be unique.
   Therefore, the transportation scenario will dictate the nodes and methods of moving medical
   materiel to a deployed medical unit.

       3.2.2.1. Materiel and resupply for a deployed medical unit should be transported by the
       most expedient and reliable lift method. Cargo movement throughout the distribution
       chain must have 100 percent ITV. Systems must be in place to provide commercial
       carrier and military transportation system tracking. Lack of ITV can result in delayed
       and lost shipments, which can negatively impact the mission.

       3.2.2.2. Medical logisticians and the transportation community work hand-in-hand to
       develop executable medical cargo movement plans. Working relationships and
       agreements should be established to ensure uninterrupted medical cargo movement.
       Similar contracted or partnership agreements are pursued with commercial transporters to
       the greatest extent possible.

   3.2.3. Redeployment/Reconstitution of Assets. Assets will be shipped to
   AFMOA/SGSLW (Port San Antonio, TX) for refurbishment, unless otherwise directed. If
   deployed with the Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support (DMLSS) computer system
   and a stock record account number, all appropriate transactions (including AS validation) can
   be processed on site.

3.3. Sustainment.

   3.3.1. In a mature theater, there may be a TLAMM element linked to the combatant
   commands, JTF/SG, AFFOR/SG, deployed medical units, sustaining base, and the
   AFMLOC. When a TLAMM is established, it will be the deployed unit’s primary POC for
   materiel and equipment support in theater. The sustaining bases will still be available for
   emergencies and support when the TLAMM is unable to provide support.

   3.3.2. The following are the acquisition method strategies, listed in the established priorities
   for acquisition.

       3.3.2.1 The Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Troop Support PV Program. PV
       distributed items include Distribution and Pricing Agreement (DAPA) items, Federal
       Supply Schedule items, PV non-usage items, PV committed volume or Regional
       Incentive Agreements (RIAs), and PV program electronic commerce (ecommerce) and
       other electronic tool sources.

       3.3.2.2. The DLA Troop Support Electronic Catalog (ECAT).
18                                                                                    AFTTP 3-42.8


        3.3.2.3. Local Purchase Instruments. Decentralized Blanket Purchase Agreements
        (DBPAs), Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPAs), and Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite
        Quantity (ID/IQ) contracts.

        3.3.2.4. Other ecommerce and web-based ordering sites. For example, Department of
        Veterans Affairs (DVA) ordering sites.

        3.3.2.5. The DLA Troop Support Depot. Centrally-managed and military/service-unique
        items.

        3.3.2.6. Government purchase cards.

3.4. Materiel Management. Material management requires the ability to organize and provide
life-cycle management of medical materiel, including pharmaceuticals, medical supplies,
medical assemblages, and medical gases. Each chief of logistics/director of logistics is
responsible for all logistics operations in the activity and satellite activities to the extent
authorized. These operational responsibilities include:
     3.4.1. The acquisition, receipt, storage, issue, movement, maintenance, repair, and
     accountability of materiel and equipment.

     3.4.2. Environmental services management, including housekeeping, textile care services
     (linen distribution and laundry services), and waste collection and disposal.

     3.4.3. Facility management, including real property repair and maintenance, construction
     and renovations (minor/new), grounds maintenance, physical security, preventive
     maintenance, energy conservation, facility space utilization, and master planning.

     3.4.4. Transportation management, including transportation coordination and justification
     and management of non-tactical vehicles.

     3.4.5. Communications with the information management officer and the plans and
     operations staff.

     3.4.6. Contracting support coordination. The excess materiel management goals are to
     eliminate excess medical materiel, which is any materiel on hand that is no longer required to
     satisfy any mission requirement. Also, ensure timely and cost-effective identification of
     excess materiel and equipment, and aggressively report and advertise excess materiel for
     possible redistribution of serviceable items to other activities or units.

3.5. Medical Maintenance. All medical equipment must be properly maintained. The
oversight responsibility for the safe use of electrical devices in patient care areas is required.
Electrical safety inspections of all medical and nonmedical equipment used in patient care areas
is mandatory. Testing of isolated power systems and ground fault circuit interrupter (GFCIs) is
also required. Electrical safety inspections and testing should be performed in accordance with
(IAW) AFI 41-201, Managing Clinical Engineering Programs, and AFI 41-203, Electrical
Safety in Medical Treatment Facilities. BMETs may assist the Chief of the Medical Staff and
AFTTP 3-42.8                                                                                        19


others responsible for in-service training by providing user training and education on electrical
safety.

   3.5.1. Medical maintenance teams will exercise their responsibilities by performing
   electrical safety inspections, calibration/verification, unscheduled/preventive maintenance,
   installations/removals, and repairs and modification of biomedical equipment (IAW AFI 41-
   201). Emphasis is placed upon component-level repairs, replacement of assemblies,
   modules, and printed circuit boards. They will also maintain and operate a medical
   equipment repair parts program; technical library with operator and service manuals for
   individual equipment items; conduct initial inspections for new or transferred equipment; and
   implement organizational maintenance support for all medical devices used at various
   locations. BMETs will perform pre-purchase evaluations of medical devices and advise on
   operational theory, underlying physiological principles, and safe clinical applications of
   biomedical equipment.

   3.5.2. It is imperative that all actions performed by BMETs are documented IAW AFI 41-
   201. This includes all maintenance actions throughout the life cycle of the medical
   equipment, such as electrical safety inspections, modifications, calibration/verifications,
   preventive/unscheduled maintenance, etc. Safety inspections performed in the facility will
   be accomplished IAW AFI 41-201 and AFI 41-203. Training/in-service training will also be
   documented upon completion.

3.6. Facility Management. Facility managers maintain the overall safe environment of the
entire MTF. Their responsibilities include:

   3.6.1. Ensure the identification and correction of electrical safety hazards and coordinate
   with the base civil engineer (BCE) to ensure inspections of the power distribution and
   emergency power systems are performed and documented.

   3.6.2. Coordinate with BCE to correct power distribution system hazards identified through
   inspection.

   3.6.3. Help perform functional and technical reviews of development documents and
   drawings.

   3.6.4. Identify requirements for medical equipment and furnishings.

   3.6.5. Direct acceptance inspections and construction surveillance.

   3.6.6. Assist in transitional planning, initial outfitting, and post-occupancy efforts.

   3.6.7. Advise on medical facility master planning and life-cycle management.

   3.6.8. Conduct facility assessment studies to improve the functional use of existing space.

   3.6.9. Perform engineering evaluations of building systems and components.
20                                                                                   AFTTP 3-42.8


     3.6.10. Provide consultant services for code interpretation and compliance.

     3.6.11. Identify facility sustainment, restoration and modernization requirements, and
     advocate for project funding.
AFTTP 3-42.8                                                                                     21


                                         CHAPTER 4

                  COMMAND AND CONTROL (C2) RELATIONSHIPS

4.1. Command and Control (C2).

   4.1.1. Medical operations C2 is defined in warning, execution, and operations orders.

   4.1.2. Medical logistics personnel fall under the control of the supported unit. When
   augmenting an existing medical resource, medical logistics specialists report to the senior
   ranking medical officer or IAW the established C2 structure.

   4.1.3. When employed to augment existing EMEDS/AFTH assets, medical logistics
   personnel integrate into the supported unit’s C2 structure.

4.2. Nodes.

   4.2.1. The primary nodes within the EML system include the AFMLOC, the deployed
   medical unit, and the sustaining base.

   4.2.2. Adjunct nodes include PV, JTF/SG, AFFOR/SG, and the TLAMM. Depending on the
   node and method of transportation employed, the APOE/APOD may become critical adjunct
   nodes.

   4.2.3. Node enabling functions or processes include transportation, AIS technology,
   worldwide telecommunication capability (including satellite communications [SATCOM]),
   access to the Internet, logistics manpower augmentation, and the appropriate level of
   training. All nodes, functions, and processes related to the EML supply chain exist in every
   phase of a deployment, including post-deployment review and analysis.
22                                                                                      AFTTP 3-42.8


                                            CHAPTER 5

                                         INTELLIGENCE

5.1. Health Service Logistics Support (HSLS) Planning. In developing the HSLS estimate
and plan, health service personnel obtain updated medical intelligence through standard
intelligence sources. By obtaining medical intelligence and studying the medical threat, health
service personnel can better predict the types of sustainment medical materiel that will be
required for the mission. When this prediction is considered in light of the casualty estimate,
theater evacuation policy, and anticipated duration of the operation, the health service logistician
can also forecast the expected quantities of materiel items that will be required.

5.2. Medical Intelligence. Medical intelligence is the product resulting from the collection,
evaluation, analysis, integration, and interpretation of all available general health and
bioscientific information. Medical intelligence is concerned with one or more of the medical
aspects of foreign nations or the AOR. It is any information that is known about a region where
USAF assets may deploy or where the USAF may have interest that pertains to an individual’s
health and welfare, host nation medical threats, and the host nation’s medical capability and
infrastructure.

     5.2.1. The public health officer usually is responsible for gathering and briefing this
     information.

     5.2.2. Until medical information is appropriately processed (ordinarily on the national level
     by the National Center for Medical Intelligence), it is not considered intelligence.
AFTTP 3-42.8                                                                                     23


                                          CHAPTER 6

                COMMUNICATIONS/COMPUTER SYSTEMS SUPPORT

6.1. Organic Communications Equipment. Medical logistics support relies heavily on
technology to track and maintain supplies. The DMLSS software suite meets these requirements
by allowing direct data entry and transmission of orders from remote locations to suppliers.

   6.1.1. An effective ITV system is crucial to providing medical logistics support. The GTN
   provides a means to access transportation and deployment information. PMITS is a
   commercial off-the-shelf stand-alone system used to track PMI equipment.

   6.1.2. All materiel, to include the initial response supplies, sustainment materiel, and
   medical equipment, is currently managed by one of the following systems:

       6.1.2.1. The DMLSS system for EMEDS Health Response Team (HRT), EMEDS+10,
       EMEDS+25 or larger assemblages.

       6.1.2.2. DMLSS Customer Assistance Module (DCAM) for deployed units smaller or
       below the EMEDS HRT level, AE assemblages, and Special Operations Medical Teams.

       6.1.2.3. PMITS for AE deployed units, or a combination of these systems, depending on
       the size and complexity of medical logistics support required for AE support to the
       EMEDS/AFTH deployment.

6.2. Communications.

   6.2.1. Reliable communications are critical to the entire EML process and begin with proper
   planning in the pre-deployment phase. Communication requirements must be an integral part
   of all operation planning documents.

   6.2.2. Worldwide telecommunications, including SATCOM and access to the Internet, are
   essential for establishing and sustaining effective resupply to deployed medical units (see
   Figure 6-1, Air Force Theater System Connectivity).

   6.2.3. The sustaining base and AFMLOC shall ensure that the deploying unit has access to a
   remote access server (RAS). This will allow the deployed medical units to pass requisitions
   electronically by SATCOM or by other appropriate means as an interim solution until
   deployed communications provide the permanent connectivity solution. The sustaining base
   must establish a deliberate plan to connect the deploying unit with the RAS before actual
   deployment. This plan must include testing of remote connectivity with the sustaining base
   before deployment.
24                                                                                                                                                                   AFTTP 3-42.8



                                   Air Force Theater System Connectivity Description (SV-2)                                                                      -

                                               Air Force
                                               Contingency Aeromedical Staging Facility                                         Definitive Care
                                               (CASF), PMI Center                                                                                                          AF TLAMM
                    En - Route Care                                                                                                         Materiel Order       Catalog Data
                                                                                                                                         Catalog Data
                                                                                                                                                               Materiel Order
                                                                                                                                               Order Status Order Status
                                                                                                                                                       DMLSS
                                                                                                                                                     RELEASE 3
                                                                                                                                                    Local Server
                                                                                          DCAM                                                             E3 Data Sent
                                                                                                                            HHD                         When Connectivity
        Air Force                                                                                                           Order/Status                     Available
        Aeromedical Evac CCATT,                                                                                      Catalog/
        AELT, Inflight Kit                                                                                       Order/Status
        Mobile Aeromedical Staging Facility
               Aeromedical

                                                                                                                                                                           JMAR
                                                                                                                                          Theater
                                                  Order/Status                                                                            MedLog
                                                                                                                                           Data
                                                                                              Catalog Data
                                               HHD                                             Materiel Order
                                                                                                Order Status           TMIP - DMLSS
                                                       DCAM                                                             RELEASE 3
                                                                                                                        Local Server                         Air Force
                                                                                            E2 Data Sent                                                     EMEDS HRT thru
        Air Force                                                                         When Connectivity
                                                                                                                                                  Hospital   EMEDS +25/AFTH
        Global Reach Laydown                                                                  Available                                           MedLog
                                                                               Order/Status
        Air Transportable Clinic
        AFSOC Rapid Response
                                                                                                         Air Force                                 Data

                                                                                                         AFSOC Base Medical Support
                                      Order/Status

                                                                                   HHD                                                                          Theater Care


              HHD
                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                   First Responder                                                                 Forward Resuscitative Care



                                              Figure 6-1. Air Force Theater System Connectivity

6.3. Information Management/Technology.

     6.3.1. EML information management will be accomplished through the employment of
     existing information system technologies, DMLSS, and USTRANSCOM GTN.

     6.3.2. DMLSS is the primary information management system used by both the sustaining
     base and the deployed unit (EMEDS HRT or larger) for asset management.

     6.3.3. DCAM is the primary AIS used by the deployed medical unit operating below the
     threshold of an EMEDS HRT.

     6.3.4. USTRANSCOM’s GTN integrates movement and schedule data from source systems
     and commercial transportation service providers and feeds this data into supply chain nodes
     to provide ITV.

     6.3.5. Personnel should evaluate and incorporate all technological enhancements into the
     EML process where beneficial. Data timeliness criteria follows the Under Secretary of
     Defense (Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics) Implementation Plan for all military and
     commercial origin, in-transit, and receiving activities to report the arrival and departure of
     unit strategic and sustainment airlift movements, sustainment sealift movements, and
     intratheater and CONUS movements.
AFTTP 3-42.8                                                                                    25


6.4. Computer Applications.

   6.4.1. The Theater Medical Information Program (TMIP) provides the suite of DOD
   standard applications that support theater HSS operations. These include medical C2, health
   care delivery, patient tracking, and medical logistics and blood management. TMIP
   applications are fielded and maintained by each Service.

   6.4.2. The DMLSS program provides the DOD standard applications for medical logistics in
   both institutional and operational environments, integrating national and operational-level
   business processes, medical information management, and medical information technology.
   The Medical Logistics Proponent Committee (MLPC), under the direction of the Assistant
   Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs) (ASD[HA]), is the functional proponent for the
   DMLSS Program to promote business process innovations that increase the efficiency and
   effectiveness of medical logistics support of HSS across the full range of military operations.
   The DMLSS applications that support HSLS are found at all echelons of theater HSS and
   enable end-to-end management of HSLS processes.

       6.4.2.1. DMLSS Release 3.0. Provides medical supply, medical equipment management
       and maintenance, assembly management, facility management, and customer support
       functions for theater HSS units.

       6.4.2.2. DCAM. Provides a simple, laptop-based tool for customer order management
       for tactical HSS units. DCAM provides tactical customers with a store and forward
       capability when communications are not available.

       6.4.2.3. Theater Enterprise Wide Logistics System (TEWLS). TEWLS is the DMLSS
       solution for theater-level distribution of CL VIII supply chain management by a
       TLAMM. TEWLS integrates CL VIII storage and C-17 HSLS distribution operations in
       all theater HSLS units under the management of the Medical Logistics Management
       Center (MLMC), and provides linkage with national-level commercial sources.

       6.4.2.4. Joint Medical Asset Repository (JMAR). A Web-based data repository that
       provides worldwide asset visibility for medical materiel.

6.5. Health Service Logistics Support (HSLS).

   6.5.1. HSLS is highly dependent upon reliable and timely data and voice communications to
   exchange information among customers, HSLS units, commercial suppliers, and
   transportations systems. Theater HSLS operates primarily in a non-secure environment.
   Some customers (such as Special Forces) and processes (such as joint movement requests)
   require access to secure communications. A lack of communications connectivity has been
   frequently cited in past lessons-learned reports as a major contributing factor when supply
   chain performance has not met customer requirements.

   6.5.2. HSLS planning must address the need for reliable data connectivity for HSLS
   customers and organizations, especially during the earliest stages of theater operations before
26                                                                                    AFTTP 3-42.8


     theater communications capabilities are fully mature. HSLS planners must coordinate
     closely with their J-6 and understand the communications plan for the operation.

     6.5.3. HSLS issues that should be considered include:

        6.5.3.1. HSS customers’ ability to communicate requirements and receive status.

        6.5.3.2. HSLS units’ ability to communicate with customers as well as supporting theater
        and national-level organizations.

        6.5.3.3. HSLS units’ ability to share requirements and movements information with
        distribution management organizations and provide situational awareness to logistics
        and/or C2 systems.

        6.5.3.4. Information security, to include negotiation of firewalls.

        6.5.3.5. The requirement and/or use of nonstandard communications capabilities, such as
        SATCOM for HSS/HSLS.

        6.5.3.6. Training, fielding, and in-theater support for hardware and applications.

6.6. Patient Movement Items Tracking System (PMITS). PMI are tracked using PMITS,
which is developed and supported by the DMLSS Program Office. PMITS is a system of
systems under DMLSS for non-theater sites and under Theater Medical Information Program-
Joint (TMIP-J) for theater sites. Use of PMITS is mandatory for PMI asset visibility and
tracking. It allows medical logistics personnel to proactively support deployed organizations.
HQ AMC/SGXL is responsible for PMITS operational control, advice, and counsel.

     6.6.1. PMITS manages a designated pool of medical equipment to support patients requiring
     AE. It provides real-time information on the location and operational status of mobile
     medical equipment. PMITS provides clear visibility on the availability and status of the
     medical equipment needed to treat patients in-transit. It supports timely recycling of PMI
     through accurate tracking processes and ensures the right equipment is in place at the right
     time for aeromedical patient care. By marrying basic inventory tracking with just-in-time
     logistics, PMITS has substantially decreased inventory costs and improved AE operational
     readiness, a key element in increasing patient survivability rates. Currently, PMITS supports
     over 100 sites worldwide.

     6.6.2. PMITS uses bar code technology to scan PMI and share PMI data with other
     authorized users of the system. By using a bar coding system, PMITS links uniquely
     identified medical equipment with its location and operational status at the point it was
     scanned. Bar codes will be issued only at PMI centers and designated units or by HQ
     AMC/SGXL using established bar code guidelines IAW published PMI Bar Coding
     Methodology & Codes. Users will ensure bar code labels are attached to all PMI equipment
     assets and loaded in PMITS before use and/or patient movement. The bar code label should
     include the AMC/SGXL phone number, 1-877-286-1931. If the label is worn or does not
     have the phone number, contact the nearest PMI center or AMC/SGXL to obtain a new label
AFTTP 3-42.8                                                                              27


   immediately. Non-PMI equipment will not be tracked in this system unless coordinated with
   USTRANSCOM and HQ AMC/SGXL.
28                                                                                    AFTTP 3-42.8


                                           CHAPTER 7

                         INTEGRATION AND INTEROPERABILITY

7.1. Integration with Other Systems/Teams. During contingency operations, the Air Force
uses DMLSS to assist in medical materiel management. EMEDS assemblages are equipped with
DMLSS, which is part of the TMIP software suite. DMLSS is also capable of stand-alone
operation, complete with a finance and procurement source interface. Contingency HSLS
operations mirror normal support to peacetime MTFs. Both the EMEDS and the MTF health
service personnel have the same health service logistics mission when deployed.

     7.1.1. Stored operating supplies may be funded through Air Force Working Capital Fund
     (AFWCF) assets. As issues are processed, the AFWCF is reimbursed with operation and
     maintenance (O&M) funds. Air Force assemblages are normally issued up-front using LAF
     O&M funds to reimburse the AFWCF. When O&M funding is used for operating supplies,
     no reimbursement by customers is required.

     7.1.2. Each assemblage deploys with a set number of days of supplies and will require
     resupply support before the TLAMM is in place (if designated). AFMLO has the capability
     to develop Air Force Class VIII sustainment requirements data for specific OPLANs. An
     EMEDS can be equipped to requisition and receive supplies in a stand-alone mode from its
     home base, another support base, or other source of supply.

     7.1.3. An EMEDS may be designated as a TLAMM for a particular geographic area and a
     temporary period of time. The designation is specified in the CCDR’s OPLAN.
     Transportation and communications augmentation must be provided from within theater to
     fulfill this mission.

7.2. Interoperability.

     7.2.1. Prime Vendors (PVs). The sustaining base requisitions the bulk of the
     pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supplies needed to support deployed medical units from
     PVs. AEF requirements are inserted in the PV contracts supporting the sustaining base.
     Vendor contracts normally contain the requirements to prepare cargo IAW military guidance
     and requirements. This is especially important for hazardous and refrigerated materiel.

     7.2.2. Joint Interoperability. The Air Force fights jointly. In recent years, DOD leadership
     has reinforced commitment to joint interoperability and joint training in most strategic
     planning and training documents (see Figure 7-1, Organization for HSLS). In joint
     operations, the Services must be able to communicate on a continuous basis; this is especially
     true in the HSLS arena. Interoperability issues must be resolved early on to ensure that
     timely and effective HSLS can be provided. Interoperability issues include the hardware
     systems as well as AISs used by each Service.
AFTTP 3-42.8                                                                                     29




                                Figure 7-1. Organization for HSLS

   7.2.3. Defense Logistics Agency (DLA). The Director, DLA is designated the DOD
   Executive Agent (EA) for medical materiel, pursuant to Department of Defense Directive
   (DODD) 5101.9, DOD Executive Agent for Medical Materiel. The DLA is the major combat
   support agency that provides worldwide distribution support to the military departments and
   the combatant commands across the full range of military operations, as well as to other
   DOD components, Federal agencies, foreign governments, and international organizations.
   The DLA manages or distributes over 80 percent of the existing stock of defense materiel,
   including distribution of Service owned stocks and nearly all of the fuel and petroleum
   products for military use. Consequently, the DLA is one of the largest components in the
   global distribution network. The DLA is the single DOD POC for the following:

       7.2.3.1. Synchronize planning and execution of end-to-end medical supply chain
       activities.

       7.2.3.2. Improve the identification and coordination of contingency medical materiel
       requirements.

       7.2.3.3. Provide financial resources necessary to achieve materiel readiness and end-to
       end supply chain operation.

       7.2.3.4. Establish acquisition programs necessary to ensure availability of medical
       materiel to meet CCDR requirements.
30                                                                                   AFTTP 3-42.8


        7.2.3.5. Establish, monitor, and report on medical supply chain performance.

        7.2.3.6. Coordinate medical materiel requirements and national-level acquisition
        programs with other federal agencies, including the DVA, Department of Health and
        Human Services, and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).

     7.2.4. Theater Lead Agent for Medical Materiel (TLAMM). In a mature theater, there
     may be a TLAMM element linked to the combatant commands, JTF/SG, AFFOR/SG,
     deployed medical units, sustaining base, and the AFMLOC. The TLAMM may be jointly
     staffed to provide customer support and distribution operations. The TLAMM supports the
     theater medical logistics manager in facilitating materiel movement and in providing medical
     asset visibility. It is the organization designated to coordinate supply chain management for
     the entire operating theater or AOR. A TLAMM may be an existing organization that
     provides routine medical materiel support to theater HSS operations, or it may be an
     organization that is created as required for a specific OPLAN by deployment of the necessary
     HSLS capabilities. The TLAMM supports all Service components and designated
     multinational and/or nongovernmental customers.

     7.2.5. Single Integrated Medical Logistics Manager (SIMLM). A SIMLM is established
     to promote supply chain efficiency and minimize the theater medical logistics footprint.
     When directed, the SIMLM, in coordination with the JFS, DOD EA, and supporting
     TLAMM (if designated), will develop an HSLS plan and identify the additional requirements
     necessary to provide medical logistics support to all designated customers and effectively
     extend HSLS into the theater in support of forward medical elements. SIMLM responsibility
     is assigned as required by a CCDR to a Service component command or JTF commander to
     provide medical logistics support to other Services and designated multinational partners.
AFTTP 3-42.8                                                                                    31


                                         CHAPTER 8

                                          TRAINING

8.1. Medical Readiness Training. Medical readiness training for medical logistics personnel is
required IAW AFI 41-106, Unit Level Management of Medical Readiness Programs. Medical
readiness training requirements are divided into four categories: (I) individual training; (II)
deployment training; (III) unit training; (IV) integrated training. Additional training may be
required to meet theater-specific requirements. These theater-unique training requirements will
be identified in deployment reporting instructions or tasking line remarks.

8.2. Mission-Specific Training for Medical Logistics Teams.

   8.2.1. MRAs (ACC, AMC, and AFSOC) develop Mission Essential Tasks Lists (METLs) as
   part of their training management responsibilities. METLs will be developed based on force
   module packaging or for stand-alone UTCs as determined by the MRA. Mission-specific
   training should occur at the local level of the base, using team METLs.

   8.2.2. The Readiness Skills Verification Program (RSVP) documents an individual’s ability
   to perform specific readiness duties, such as hazardous materials (HAZMAT) handling,
   forklift operation, and pallet building. RSVP knowledge and performance items, along with
   associated training sources, are listed on RSVP checklists, which are accessible from Medical
   Readiness Decision Support System Unit Level Training Readiness Assessment (MRDSS
   ULTRA). Personnel should document completion of RSV requirements in MRDSS ULTRA
   IAW the RSVP guidance in AFI 41-106.

   8.2.3. Mission-specific training should include, but is not limited to, HAZMAT, cargo
   preparation, pallet build-up, logistics modules (LOGMODs), vehicle operation, and software
   products. In some instances, EMEDS training is offered, or specialized experts provide on-
   site training for information systems. Review of current skill-level core tasks and familiarity
   in all areas of logistics are integral.

   8.2.4. Training exercises should include equipment-specific training and actual procedures,
   when possible. This measure will help assure that teams are mission capable and ready for
   integration into the DMF.




                                                    CHARLES B. GREEN
                                                    Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                                    Surgeon General
32                                                                              AFTTP 3-42.8


                                      ATTACHMENT 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODD 5101.9, DOD Executive Agent for Medical Materiel, 23 August 2004
JP 3-30, Command and Control for Joint Air Operations, 12 January 2010
JP 4-02, Health Service Support, 31 October 2006
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 28 March 2006
AFI 41-106, Unit Level Management of Medical Readiness Programs, 01 July 2011
AFI 41-201, Managing Clinical Engineering Programs, 25 March 2003
AFI 41-203, Electrical Safety in Medical Treatment Facilities, 19 June 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008

Forms
AF 4033, PMI/AE Certification Label

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC––Air Combat Command
ACS––Agile Combat Support
AE––Aeromedical Evacuation
AEF––Air and Space Expeditionary Force
AETF––Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force
AFB––Air Force Base
AFFOR––Air Force Forces
AFMLO––Air Force Medical Logistics Office
AFMLOC––Air Force Medical Logistics Operations Center
AFMOA––Air Force Medical Operations Agency
AFMS––Air Force Medical Service
AFRC––Air Force Reserve Command
AFSOC––Air Force Special Operations Command
AFTH––Air Force Theater Hospital
AFTTP––Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
AFWCF––Air Force Working Capital Fund
AIS––Automated Information System
AMC––Air Mobility Command
ANG––Air National Guard
AOR––Area of Responsibility
APOD––Aerial Port of Debarkation
APOE––Aerial Port of Embarkation
AS––Allowance Standard
ASD(HA)––Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs)
BCE––Base Civil Engineer
BMET––Biomedical Equipment Technician
BPA––Blanket Purchase Agreement
C2––Command and Control
CAOC––Combined Air Operations Center
AFTTP 3-42.8                                            33


CASF––Contingency Aeromedical Staging Facility
CBRN––Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear
CCATT––Critical Care Air Transport Team
CCDR––Combatant Commander
CENTCOM––Central Command
C-NAF––Component Numbered Air Force
CONOPS––Concept of Operations
CONUS––Continental United States
CSDC––Consolidated Storage and Deployment Center
DAPA––Distribution and Pricing Agreement
DBPA––Decentralized Blanket Purchase Agreement
DCAM––DMLSS Customer Assistance Module
DHS––Department of Homeland Security
DLA––Defense Logistics Agency
DMF––Deployed Medical Facility
DMLSS––Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support
DMSB––Defense Medical Standardization Board
DNBI––Disease and Non-Battle Injury
DOD––Department of Defense
DODD––Department of Defense Directive
DVA––Department of Veterans Affairs
EA––Executive Agent
ECAT––Electronic Catalog
ECS––Expeditionary Combat Support
EML––Expeditionary Medical Logistics
EMEDS––Expeditionary Medical Support
GFCI––Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter
GPMJAB––Global Patient Movement Joint Advisory Board
GTN––Global Transportation Network
HAZMAT––Hazardous Materials
HQ––Headquarters
HRT––Health Response Team
HSLS––Health Service Logistics Support
HSS––Health Service Support
IA––Information Assurance
IAW––In Accordance With
ID/IQ––Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity
ITV––In-Transit Visibility
JFS––Joint Force Surgeon
JMAR––Joint Medical Asset Repository
JTF––Joint Task Force
LAF––Line of the Air Force
LOGMOD––Logistics Module
LRRC––Loaner Repair and Return Center
MAJCOM––Major Command
MASF––Mobile Aeromedical Staging Facility
MC-CBRN––Medical Counter-CBRN
34                                                                       AFTTP 3-42.8


MEFPAK––Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging
MERC––Medical Equipment Repair Center
METL––Mission Essential Tasks List
MILGRP––Military Assistance Group
MISCAP––Mission Capability
MLMC––Medical Logistics Management Center
MLPC––Medical Logistics Proponent Committee
MOC––Medical Operations Center
MRA––MEFPAK Responsible Agency
MRDSS ULTRA––Medical Readiness Decision Support System Unit Level Training
                  Readiness Assessment
MTF––Medical Treatment Facility
NCC––Network Control Center
NOSC-D––Network Operations and Security Center–Deployed
OCP––Operational Capabilities Package
O&M––Operation and Maintenance
OCONUS––Outside the Continental United States
OPLAN––Operation Plan
OPR––Office of Primary Responsibility
OSI––Office of Special Investigations
PACAF––Pacific Air Forces
PMI––Patient Movement Items
PMITS––Patient Movement Items Tracking System
POC––Point of Contact
POM––Program Objective Memorandum
PV––Prime Vendor
RAS––Remote Access Server
RDS––Records Disposition Schedule
RIA––Regional Incentive Agreement
RSVP––Readiness Skills Verification Program
SATCOM––Satellite Communications
SG––Surgeon General, Surgeon
SIMLM––Single Integrated Medical Logistics Manager
SOF––Special Operations Forces
SOUTHCOM––Southern Command
TEWLS––Theater Enterprise Wide Logistics System
TLAMM––Theater Lead Agent for Medical Materiel
TMIP––Theater Medical Information Program
TMIP-J––Theater Medical Information Program-Joint
TTP––Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
WMD––Weapons of Mass Destruction
WRM––War Reserve Materiel
USAFE––United States Air Forces in Europe
USC––United States Code
USTRANSCOM––United States Transportation Command
UTC––Unit Type Code
