BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                    AFWA INSTRUCTION 64-1
AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY                                                              5 DECEMBER 2001

                                                                                                Contracting

                                                                  GUIDELINES FOR DEALING WITH
                                                                                     INDUSTRY



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFWA/XPxp (Maj Michael Roche)                 Certified by: HQ AFWA/XP (Col Nathan Feldman)
Supersedes AWSI 64-1, 15 AUG 96                                                             Pages: 2
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction states policy and provides guidance for all Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA) personnel
who deal with industry through contacts with contractors and vendors. It implements Air Force policies
and guidance found in 36 and 64-series directives and instructions for situations normally encountered by
AFWA personnel.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision includes procedures that apply to ALL AFWA personnel.


1. Policy. Personnel will handle all industry contacts with integrity and propriety. HQ AFWA and each
subordinate unit will document the process their personnel will follow in dealing with industry.

2. General. Personnel may come in contact with industry contractors/vendors through informal calls and
sales presentations, formulation of requirements, soliciting bids and offers, awarding of contracts, and
ensuring compliance with terms of a contract. This instruction pertains to the informal contacts one may
have and the periodic requests for information contractors/vendors may make. All other contacts are gov-
erned by procedures found in FAR, DoDDs, AFPDs, AFIs, and supporting contracting office’s instruc-
tions.

3. Procedures. The following procedures apply to all AFWA personnel:
   3.1. If you receive written or printed matter of a general sales nature, no action is required. However,
   if a response is required or if the correspondence is an unsolicited proposal to perform a task or pro-
   vide a product to the government, contact your supporting contracting office.
   3.2. If you receive a telephone call from a contractor, listen to the description of their product, but do
   not volunteer any information on government procurement requirements. You should advise the con-
   tractor of the process which begins with contacting the supporting contracting office.
2                                                                   AFWAI64-1 5 DECEMBER 2001


    3.3. Contractors may ask to visit personnel in order to make a sales presentation or demonstration by
    following the guidance outlined in AFWA HOI 35-1, Visitor Management.
       3.3.1. Appropriate HQ AFWA Directors or subordinate unit Commanders must approve any visit
       by a contractor/vendor before any preparation for such a visit takes place.
       3.3.2. Arrangements for these demonstrations are made by the supporting contracting office.



                                               ROBERT H. ALLEN, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
