BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY
AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY                                              INSTRUCTION 36-8

                                                                                  25 MAY 2010
                                                                  Certified Current 6 June 2013
                                                                                      Personnel

                                                 CIVILIAN TIME AND ATTENDANCE AND
                                                 ALTERNATIVE WORK SCHEDULE (AWS)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFWA/DPC                                                           Certified by: AFWA/DP
Supersedes: AFWAHOI 36-5,                                                    (Deborah McGary)
            25 July 2005                                                               Pages: 11


This Instruction establishes policy and procedures for administering Headquarters Air Force
Weather Agency (HQ AFWA) Time and Attendance, and an Alternative Work Schedule (AWS)
program for AFWA appropriated fund civilian employees. This publication requires the
collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a).
The authority for the collection and maintenance of the information is 5 U.S.C. Chapter 53, 55,
and 81; 10 U.S.C. 8013and E.O. 9397 (SSN). Systems of records notices DoD T7335, Defense
Civilian Pay System (DCPS) and F065 AF A, Time and Attendance Feeder Records apply. This
program is established in accordance with authorities outlined in Title 5, United States Code
(USC), Part III, Subpart E, Chapter 61, Subchapter II; Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations
(CFR), Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Part 610; 5 CFR , Chapter 1, Part 551, Subpart D; DoD
Financial Management Regulation, Volume VIII, Civilian Pay Policy and Procedures, AFI 36-
807 Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, and AFI 36-815, Absence
and Leave. In addition to the authorities listed above that authorize collection and maintenance
of the records prescribed in this publication, Executive Order 9397 applies. This publication
does not apply to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve Command. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gccs-af61a/afrims/afrims.                   Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. A list of references
and a glossary of terms can be found at Attachment 1.
 2                                                                 AFWAI36-8 25 MAY 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include updated statutory and regulatory references, a mandatory unpaid lunch break of
at least 30 minutes, or for shift operations, a 20 minute paid working lunch period, and provides
for two 15 minute paid breaks during the tour of duty (mission permitting). It makes use of
Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence
optional at discretion of supervisors, except mandates use for requests for advanced annual or
sick leave, or when requesting to invoke Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) entitlements. It
deletes core time deviation procedures. The term “office” was replaced with “work center”
throughout the instruction for consistency. It expands the Glossary of References and
Supporting Information, deletes Attachment 3 (Flexifinder for Flexitimers) and Attachment 4
Quick Reference Codes, and prescribing and use of AFWA Form 16, AFWA Work Schedule
Request.
1. 1. Responsibilities.
       1.1.1. Commanders. Approve or delegate authority to approve and implement Flexible
       Work Schedules (FWS) or Compressed Work Schedules (CWS) for federal civilian
       employees under their command, consistent with existing laws, DoD and Air Force
       regulations and instructions.
           1.1.1.1. AFWA Federal civilians at locations other than Offutt AFB may be covered
           by various local labor agreements, or installation regulations. Therefore, before
           changing work schedules at locations other than Offutt AFB, commanders must
           coordinate with HQ AFWA/DP, and the local servicing Civilian Personnel function.
       1.1.2. Supervisors and Managers.
           1.1.2.1. Ensure work centers are staffed 0730 to 1630, Monday through Friday for
           work centers on a normal tour of duty. Employees will be scheduled for a required
           30-60 minute unpaid meal period at approximately the midpoint of the scheduled tour
           of duty. Weekends and holidays will normally be non-duty days. When required,
           individual work centers will schedule their personnel accordingly.
           1.1.2.2. For employees on an uncommon tour of duty, such as shift work, assure
           work centers are staffed, 24 hrs/7 days a week. A 20-minute paid working lunch
           which is part of the shift may be authorized, when circumstances warrant.
           1.1.2.3. Monitor work hours of subordinate employees for compliance with
           requirements and take corrective or disciplinary action when warranted.
           1.1.2.4. Ensure hours are correct and certify as accurate on the time and attendance
           sheet in accordance with paragraph 4. The time and attendance sheet provided by the
           organizational timekeeper is the only authorized time sheet and must be added to the
           organization file plan and maintained until a General Accounting Office (GAO) audit,
           or six (6) years (whichever is sooner) in accordance with AFMAN 33-363.
           1.1.2.5. Obtain approval, document, and submit AF Form 428, Request for Overtime,
           Holiday Premium Pay and Compensatory Time with time and attendance sheet as
           appropriate.
AFWAI36-8 25 MAY 2010                                                                       3


        1.1.2.6. Order, approve, disapprove, or change employees’ schedules and requests for
        deviations (overtime, leave, compensatory time and credit hours earned/used),
        considering workload, impact on mission accomplishment, work center coverage, and
        impact to the employee. Normally, work schedule changes should be communicated
        in writing to employees no less than seven (7) calendar days before the change is
        effected, or as soon as possible afterwards.
        1.1.2.7. Supervisors share the responsibility with the employee to coordinate work
        schedules at Temporary Duty (TDY) locations. Supervisors must communicate with
        both the TDY location supervisor (if any) and the employee on unusual work
        schedules or overtime requirements.             Consult with AFWA/DPC for
        questions/concerns.
     1.1.3. Employees.
        1.1.3.1. Become familiar and comply with the procedures in this instruction.
        1.1.3.2. Accurately and completely record daily hours of work and deviations
        (approved leave or approved unpaid absences, approved overtime worked, approved
        compensatory time or credit hours earned/taken, or non-compensable travel time
        earned/used), on time and attendance sheet. Employees will:
            1.1.3.2.1. Request leave or other approved absence in advance, when known, in
            accordance with their organizational leave requesting procedures, to their
            supervisor or other leave approving official in the chain of command. If required
            by supervisor, or when requesting advanced annual or advanced sick leave, or
            when requesting invocation of FMLA provisions, OPM Form 71 will be
            completed and submitted. This does not eliminate the requirement to submit the
            Time and Attendance Sheet.
            1.1.3.2.2. When subject to a Flexitour type of FWS, request approval from their
            supervisor in advance to work credit hours when there is substantive work to be
            done with set suspenses that cannot be accommodated via regularly schedule
            work hours. Document credit hours earned/taken on the timesheet.
        1.1.3.3. Cooperate with their supervisor in planning work schedules to ensure the
        work center is adequately covered during established hours. Employees’ schedules
        may be adjusted in order to attend meetings or satisfy other organizational needs that
        occur during flexible time bands.
        1.1.3.4. Employees share responsibility with supervisors for coordinating work
        schedules at TDY locations. Employees should communicate with the TDY location
        and home-base supervisor on unusual work schedules or overtime requirements.
  2.1. Flexible Work Schedule (FWS).
     2.1.1. A Flexitour FWS is authorized for all Federal civilian employees assigned to HQ
     AFWA (Directorates, Command Section, Special Staff Offices), 1 WXG at Offutt AFB,
     NE, and 2 WXG at Offutt AFB, NE. No other forms of FWS are authorized.
     2.1.2. A Flexitour FWS permits employees to select starting and stopping times within a
     flexible time period (flex band), with prior supervisory approval. After approval, hours
     are fixed (non-gliding). This schedule requires all employees to be at work or on an
 4                                                                   AFWAI36-8 25 MAY 2010


         approved absence during core hours and requires a 30-60 minute unpaid lunch period at
         approximately the midpoint of the scheduled tour of duty. Credit hours may be earned
         and used with a Flexitour, with advanced supervisory approval. Attachment 2 provides
         more specifics on the Flexitour FWS.
         2.1.3. Eligibility. Employees may, with their supervisor’s approval, select personalized
         work schedules. This schedule may be established and changed with prior approval of
         the supervisor within the established flexible time bands below.

Table 1.1. Flexible Time Bands.
 FLEX BAND          CORE HOURS START CORE HOURS END                       FLEX BAND
     0600 - 0900    0900                        1530                     1530 - 1800

         2.1.4. Approval. Supervisors approve individual schedules based on organizational
         needs as the primary requirement, but also considering employee needs and preferences.
         2.1.5. Work Schedule. Employees must work eight (8) hours per day, five (5) days per
         week and be present during core hours (excluding unpaid 30-60 minute lunch break at
         approximately midpoint of the tour of duty) unless on an approved absence.
         2.1.6. Tour of Duty. The tour of duty range will be 0600 to 1800.
            2.1.6.1. Employees may start their tour of duty as early as 0600 or as late as 0900.
            Depending on the morning start time and length of the unpaid lunch period,
            employees may end their tour of duty in the afternoon as early as 1530 or as late as
            1800 (see Attachment 2).
            2.1.6.2. Mission and workload permitting, two 15 minute paid rest periods may be
            provided during each four hours of continuous work. Rest periods are provided
            solely for purposes cited in AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and
            Holiday Observances, paragraphs 4.3. and subparagraphs, such as increasing or
            maintaining a high quality or quantity production. Missed rest periods are not an
            entitlement, do not accrue, and are not “owed” to the employee if missed for mission
            requirements. Rest periods may not be combined to shorten the tour of duty length
            (leave early).
            2.1.6.3. Unpaid lunch periods at approximately the midpoint of the tour of duty will
            be a minimum of 30 minutes. Unpaid lunch periods may not be combined with paid
            rest periods to shorten the tour of duty length, nor will unpaid lunch periods normally
            be worked through to shorten the duty day.
                2.1.6.3.1. In work centers with more than one 8 hour shift in a 24 hour period,
                where mission requirements preclude the employee leaving the work center to
                take an unpaid lunch period, a 20 minute paid lunch period may be provided
                during the normally scheduled tour of duty workload permitting. Employees must
                stay at or near work stations during this compensable on-the-job lunch period.
         2.1.7. Credit Hours Earned. Credit hours must be approved by management in advance,
         and may be earned only for work that meets the criteria for being considered “hours of
AFWAI36-8 25 MAY 2010                                                                          5


       work” under the provisions of either 5 CFR Part 610, or specific Fair Labor Standards
       Act (FLSA) provisions of 5 CFR, Part 551.
           2.1.7.1. Only an employee working an approved FWS may earn credit hours. Credit
           hours earned and used will be documented on the time and attendance sheet.
           2.1.7.2. Credit hours may be earned and used in quarter hour (.25) increments. They
           may be earned on regularly scheduled workdays during the flexible time bands.
           Credit hours for time worked on weekend days cannot be counted unless an
           employee’s normal tour of duty includes the weekend. Credit hours cannot be earned
           for travel time, nor while TDY, as credit hours are hours worked voluntarily (with
           supervisor concurrence), and employees on TDY have been ordered to work and
           placed on orders. Travel time and TDY is compensated IAW 5 CFR Part 610 and/or
           FLSA provisions in 5 CFR, Part 551, and the DoD Financial Management Regulation
           (FMR), Volume VIII.
           2.1.7.3. AFWA employees on temporary duty automatically change to a normal work
           schedule (Monday through Friday, eight hours of duty with one hour unpaid lunch
           period), to comply with TDY requirements.
       2.1.8. Credit Hours Used.     Credit hours must be earned prior to use; there are no
       provisions for
advancing credit hours.
           2.1.8.1. Credit hours may be used during the same pay period earned or accumulated
           for future use. A maximum of 24 credit hours may be carried forward from one pay
           period to the next pay period for full-time employees. Part-time employees may
           accumulate and carry over a total equal to one-fourth of their biweekly basic work
           requirement.
           2.1.8.2. Voluntarily working credit hours with supervisory approval does not affect
           an employee’s eligibility for compensation (at regular or overtime rate IAW 5 USC
           and 5 CFR compensation provisions) when additional work hours are officially
           ordered in advance by management. However, employees may not be compensated
           twice for the same period of time worked.
           2.1.8.3. Earning or using credit hours is subject to prior supervisory approval in the
           same manner as official leave or compensatory time.
       2.1.9. Flexible Work Schedule Termination/Changes. When an FWS is terminated in
       writing by the AFWA Commander, employees are paid for accumulated credit hours (up
       to 24 hours for a full time employee, or one-quarter of a part-time employee’s biweekly
       work requirement) at the employee’s current rate of pay. There is no credit hour pay out
       when temporarily switching between an FWS and regular work schedule for TDY or
       essential mission requirements.
           2.1.9.1. An employee may not be paid premium pay for credit hours. Credit hours
           must be considered daytime hours.
           2.1.9.2. In the event of an early dismissal or base closure, an employee may retain
           the credit hours (scheduled for use that day) for future use, providing the closure
           occurred before the tour of duty commenced, or while on duty. If an early dismissal
6                                                                  AFWAI36-8 25 MAY 2010


          is called after the employee leaves the work site for the day in a “use credit hour(s)”
          status, the employee may not recoup those credit hours for future use.
    3.1. Compressed Work Schedule (CWS). The AFWA Commander delegates authority to
    group commanders to implement a CWS vice a Flexitour FWS in individual squadrons,
    flights, and work centers. Attachment 2 contains more specifics on CWS.
       3.1.1. Before implementing a CWS, commanders must coordinate with HQ AFWA/DP,
       the servicing civilian personnel function, and must comply with all statutory/regulatory
       requirements in 5 U.S.C., 5 CFR, AFI 36-807, existing applicable labor agreements, and
       authorize the CWS in writing.
       3.1.2. Approval. Requests for establishing CWS must be submitted in writing to the
       respective group commander for approval, through the normal staffing process
       (Originating Flight/Squadron to Squadron/Group Commander, with AFWA/DPC and
       AFWA/DP as required coordination).
       3.1.3. Fixed Work Schedule. CWS are arranged to enable employees to fulfill their basic
       80 hour work requirement in less than ten (10) work days during the biweekly pay period
       per a fixed schedule. There is no flexibility in reporting or quitting times.
       3.1.4. Features. Credit hours are not an authorized feature of CWS, and therefore, there
       is no authority for employees under a CWS to request to earn or use credit hours.
       3.1.5. Premium Pay. An employee is entitled to night pay for regularly scheduled night
       work performed between the hours of 1800 and 0600, as well as holiday or Sunday
       premium pay per the appropriate statute.
       3.1.6. Changes to CWS. In determining the administrative work schedule, supervisors
       may change an employee’s work schedule within the CWS for operational reasons.
       Schedule changes must be reported, documented, and communicated to the employee
       seven (7) calendar days in advance, whenever possible, or as soon as possible afterwards.
       Employees may be required to change temporarily to a non-CWS to conform to
       operations at a temporary work site or during periods of ordered travel, such as TDY.
    4.1. Record Keeping.
       4.1.1. Time and attendance in AFWA will be maintained on the time and attendance
       sheet provided by the timekeeper. The timekeeper prints this form for each employee
       showing the employee's appropriate two-week tour of duty and schedule to be worked.
       Deviations, to include overtime worked, credit hours or non-compensable travel time
       earned, authorized absences, such as annual or sick leave, compensatory time or credit
       hours used, excused absence including approved physical fitness time, and approved
       Leave Without Pay (LWOP), from the regularly scheduled tour of duty will be annotated
       on the time and attendance sheet, and posted in quarter hour (.25) increments. Maintain
       time and attendance sheet in accordance with paragraph 1.2.4.
          4.1.1.1. If there are no deviations from an employee's work schedule, no annotations
          will be made, and the time and attendance sheet will be certified by the employee’s
          supervisor or approving official.
AFWAI36-8 25 MAY 2010                                                                     7


          4.1.1.2. A properly completed and approved AF Form 428 will be attached to the
          time sheet to document earned overtime, compensatory time, holiday, or other forms
          of premium pay.
   5.1. Prescribed Forms: No forms are prescribed in this publication listed.
   6.1. Adopted Forms: AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay and
   Compensatory Time.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication


OPM Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence




                                           JOHN D. MURPHY, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 8                                                                  AFWAI36-8 25 MAY 2010


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 5, United States Code, Part III, Subpart E, Chapter 61, Subchapter II, Subsections 6121
through 6126
Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Part 610, Hours of Work
Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Chapter 1, Part 551, Pay Administration Under The Fair
Labor Standards Act
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances
AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
RIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AWS—Alternative Work Schedule
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CWS—Compressed Work Schedule(s)
FLSA—Fair Labor Standards Act
FMLA—Family Medical Leave Act
FMR—Financial Management Regulation
FWS—Flexible Work Schedule(s)
GAO—Government Accounting Office
HQ AFWA—Headquarters Air Force Weather Agency
LWOP—Leave Without Pay
OPM—Office of Personnel Management
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—Temporary Duty
USC—United States Code

Terms
Basic Work Requirement—The number of hours, excluding overtime hours, which an
employee is required to work or is required to account for by an approved absence (leave, credit
hours, compensatory time, non-compensable travel time). Full-time employees must work the
AFWAI36-8 25 MAY 2010                                                                         9


equivalent of 8 hours a day (unless on an approved compressed work schedule), 40 hours a week.
Part-time employees work fewer hours than full-time employees.
Compressed Work Schedule—A fixed work schedule that enables the employee to fulfill their
basic work requirement (80 hours) in less than 10 workdays during the bi-weekly pay period.
Core Hours—Time under FWS during the workday or workweek that an employee must be
present for work (excluding the unpaid lunch period at approximately the midpoint of the tour of
duty).
Flexible Band—Time under FWS during the workday or workweek which, with advanced
supervisory approval, an employee may choose to vary time of arrival to, and departure from
work.
Flexible Work Schedule—A schedule that splits the basic work requirement into two distinct
kinds of time: core hours and flexible hours (flexible band). Under a FWS, an employee must be
at work during core hours and must account for the total number of hours scheduled to work.
Credit Hours—Hours of work under FWS performed by an employee, on a voluntary basis,
with prior supervisory approval, in excess of the basic work requirement, within the Flexible
Bands at the beginning and/or end of the tour of duty.
Overtime Hours—All hours in excess of 8 hours in a day (unless on an approved compressed
work schedule) or 40 hours in a week, officially ordered in advance by management and meeting
the criteria for being considered “hours of work” under the provisions of either 5 CFR Part 610,
or 5 CFR Part 551 (Fair Labor Standards Act). Credit hours worked are not “overtime hours.”
Regular Tour of Duty—The regular tour of duty for Air Force employees is five, eight (8) hour
days, Monday through Friday.
 10                                                                 AFWAI36-8 25 MAY 2010


                                         Attachment 2
              ALTERNATIVE WORK SCHEDULE (AWS) INFORMATION

Alternative Work Schedules (AWS): Work schedules that differ from normal installation
commander directed hours of duty such as Monday-Friday, 0730-1630, with a one hour unpaid
lunch period. AWS include Flexible Work Schedules (FWS) and Compressed Work Schedules
(CWS). There are many variations of FWS and CWS, and any AWS should be authorized in
writing to include the type of schedule and specific provisions applicable to the work schedule.


Flexible Work Schedules (FWS): A major type of AWS. There are numerous variations of
FWS, but all include “core” and “flexible” hours (Flex Band) which normally total 40 hours
work each week, or 80 hours in a 2-week pay period, depending on the specific type of FWS
authorized. FWS usually feature the earning/use of “Credit Hours.”


Credit Hours: Earned by employees working additional hours, at their request and approved by
the supervisor in advance (except in unusual circumstances), within flexible time periods (bands)
and normally scheduled work days, specified in the written authorization for a FWS. Credit
Hours differ from Overtime, which are additional hours of work ordered by management, and
compensated by pay or compensatory time. Credit Hours are normally not compensable and are
paid out only if the work schedule changes from a FWS, the employee is no longer subject to the
work schedule (moves to another organization with a work schedule that does not include Credit
Hours), or upon separation. Accrued Credit Hours may be used for approved absences in lieu of
paid annual/sick leave, or Leave Without Pay (LWOP). A maximum of 24 Credit Hours may be
accrued and carried over from one pay period to the next.


Core Hours: A feature of FWS, core hours are periods of time all employees must be at work,
unless approved absence has been granted, other than the 30-60 minutes unpaid lunch period
taken at approximately the midpoint of the tour of duty, or paid rest periods.


Flex Hours or Flex Bands: A feature of FWS, flex hours or bands are periods of time, usually at
the beginning and end of each duty day, where there is some flexibility for the employee (with
management approval) to start or end the duty day, or to earn “Credit Hours.”


Flexitour: A specific type of FWS in which an employee is allowed to select starting and
stopping times (with prior supervisory approval) within the flexible hours authorized for the
FWS. Once selected and approved by management, the tour of duty is fixed. Example: FWS
Flex Hours are 0600-0900, and 1530-1800; Core Hours are 0900-1530, with a one hour unpaid
lunch period. The employee requests and the supervisor approves a work schedule of 0630-1530
Monday-Friday, with a one hour unpaid lunch period between 1100-1200. Employee must
report not later than 0630 each day and work until 1530, unless they are on an approved absence
AFWAI36-8 25 MAY 2010                                                                           11


(annual/sick leave, LWOP, excused absence, if appropriate)—i.e., cannot come in at 0600 one
day, at 0730 the next day, without prior management approval.


Compressed Work Schedules (CWS): A major type of AWS, whose main provision is an 80
hour bi-weekly basic work requirement, scheduled by an agency, in less than ten work days,
which provides an additional non-duty day or days. Credit hours are not authorized in a CWS.
There are several variations of CWS, with the two most common being a “Four-10” (Four ten
hour days each week) or a 5-4/9, (8 shifts of 9 hours, and one shift of 8 hours in a bi-weekly pay
period). There are additional statutory/regulatory requirements in union/non-union
organizations, and leave and absence, holiday, and premium pay may be impacted by a CWS.
Therefore, consult with HQ AFWA/DP, and the installation Civilian Personnel function before
implementing a CWS.
