BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY
AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY                                              INSTRUCTION 63-1

                                                                                    7 MAY 2010

                                                                                      Acquisition

                                                                CONFIGURATION CONTROL


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFWA/A8X                                                          Certified by: AFWA/A5/8
Supersedes: AFWAHOI 63-1,                                                    (Col Robert Russell)
            6 June 2005                                                                Pages: 16


This Air Force Weather Agency Instruction establishes the processes to control and manage
changes to the capabilities of the Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA), to include AFWA’s
software and hardware baselines. It applies to all personnel (military, civilian, and contractors)
assigned to the Air Force Weather Agency as well as all groups and geographically separated
units assigned to AFWA involved in changes to AFWA baselines. AFWA Groups will
supplement this instruction or publish a supporting instruction to implement configuration
control within their organizations. It should be used in conjunction with Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3170.01, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development
System; Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual (CJCSM) 3170.01, Operation of the Joint
Capabilities Integration and Development System; CJCSI 6212.01, Interoperability and
Supportability of Information Technology Systems and National Security Systems; Department of
Defense Directive (DoDD) 5000.1, The Defense Acquisition System; DoD Instruction (DoDI)
5000.2, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System; Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-601,
Capabilities-Based Requirements Development; AFI 15-182, Weather Operations Capabilities-
Based Activities; and AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims. The
reporting requirements in this publication are licensed under the provisions of DLAR 4155.24,
Product          Quality        Deficiency         Report         Program          found        at
http://www.dla.mil/dlaps/dlar/r4155.24.pdf. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
 2                                                                                                     AFWAI63-1 7 MAY 2010


appropriate functional’s chain of command. This publication does not apply to the Air National
Guard or Air Force Reserve Command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include the redefining of configuration management and the establishment of a
configuration control process due to the AFWA reorganization

        1.     Concepts. .............................................................................................................. 2
        2.     Configuration Control Roles and Responsibilities. ................................................                            3
        3.     AFWA Configuration Control Processes. ..............................................................                          4
        4.     Capability Tracks. ..................................................................................................         6
        5.     prescribed and Adopted Forms. .............................................................................                   6

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               7

Attachment 2—AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY CONFIGURATION CONTROL BOARD 11

Attachment 3—OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND NEEDS PROCESS                                                                                     13

Attachment 4—AFWA CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT TRACKS                                                                                             15


1. Concepts.
     1.1. Configuration Management: DoD Instruction 5000.2 requires a configuration
     management approach to “identify, document, audit, and control the functional and physical
     characteristics of the system design; track any changes; provide an audit trail of program
     design decisions and design modifications; and be integrated with the Systems Engineering
     Plan and technical planning”.
     1.2. Configuration Control: Configuration Control is one of the pillars of Configuration
     Management and the centerpiece of this instruction. It ensures changes to a configuration
     baseline are properly identified, recorded, evaluated, approved or disapproved, and
     incorporated and verified, as appropriate.
     1.3. Configuration Control Board (CCB): A board composed of management, technical,
     and administrative representatives who recommend approval or disapproval of proposed
     changes to, and proposed deviations from, a Configuration Item’s current approved
     configuration documentation.
     1.4. Configuration Control Process Overview: The control of AFWA baselines and the
     management of changes to these baselines are accomplished via normal AFWA staff actions.
     These staff actions are supplemented by technical reviews and the application of system
     engineering, architectural, scientific, and information assurance AFWA processes. The
     AFWA A-Staff is responsible for the AFWA Field-Operating Agency functional baselines.
     The AFWA Weather Groups (WXGs) are responsible for their assigned allocated and
AFWAI63-1 7 MAY 2010                                                                         3


   product baselines associated with the Field-Operating Agency functional baselines. Changes
   to these baselines must be reviewed, staffed, tested and documented by the responsible
   organization prior to implementation. WXGs may make changes to allocated and product
   baselines under their control but are expected to avail themselves of AFWA A-Staff technical
   expertise when warranted.
2. Configuration Control Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.1. AFWA Commander: Provides direction for the overall operation of AFWA
   production centers and the implementation of capabilities within these centers; chairs the
   AFWA Configuration Control Board.
   2.2. AFWA Vice Commander: Assists the AFWA commander in performing command
   duties and responsibilities; chairs AFWA Configuration Control Board in the absence of
   AFWA/CC.
   2.3. AFWA Technical Director: Assists the commander and vice commander with the
   technical direction of the AFWA Staff for policy development and staff functions related to
   planning, programming, integration, and sustainment for Air Force and Army
   meteorological, communications, and computer systems; member of AFWA Configuration
   Control Board.
   2.4. Director, Operations, Training and Evaluation Directorate (AFWA/A3): Provides
   oversight for operations and the Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and
   education, Personnel, and Facilities (DOTMLPF) process; member of AFWA Configuration
   Control Board.
   2.5. Director, Strategic Plans, Requirements, and Programs Directorate
   (AFWA/A5/8): Provides oversight of AFWA configuration control; lead command and
   command-sponsored (excluding communication programs) capability development,
   deployment and sustainment; and engineering support via the Chief Engineer; member of
   AFWA Configuration Control Board.
   2.6. Director, Communications Directorate (AFWA/A6): Provides oversight of lead
   command and command-sponsored communications programs; weather circuit
   communications; Certification and Accreditation of AFWA unclassified and collateral secret
   systems; architectural support via AFWA/A6C; and Enterprise Information Technology Data
   Repository (EITDR) oversight; member of AFWA Configuration Control Board and
   represents the Information Assurance Manager (excluding Information Assurance matters
   concerning Special Compartmented Information).
   2.7. 1st Weather Group (1 WXG) Commander: Directs the overall operation of 1 WXG
   production centers. Process owner for the capability development and configuration control
   involving 1 WXG allocated and product baselines and the scheduling and implementation of
   new capabilities within 1 WXG; validates Operational Needs; member of AFWA
   Configuration Control Board.
   2.8. 2d Weather Group (2 WXG) Commander: Directs the overall operation of 2 WXG
   production centers. Process owner for the capability development and configuration control
   involving 2 WXG allocated and product baselines, and the scheduling and implementation of
 4                                                                    AFWAI63-1 7 MAY 2010


     new and modified capabilities within 2 WXG; validates Operational Needs; member of
     AFWA Configuration Control Board.
     2.9. AFWA Chief Scientist: Provides scientific advice supporting policy development
     related to planning, programming, and integration of capabilities for AFWA, performs
     scientific oversight for Air Force weather requirements and programs, and performs
     capability deficiency analyses; participates in the AFWA Configuration Control Board as an
     advisor.
     2.10. AFWA Chief Engineer: Furnishes technical engineering service to AFWA; oversees
     AFWA systems and software engineering as applied to projects developed by AFWA and the
     System Program Offices (SPOs); participates in the AFWA Configuration Control Board as
     an advisor.
2.11. Project Manager: Directs the day-to-day actions of the project (see Attachment 1 for
definition of a project) to ensure the tasks composing the project meet the expectations of scope,
budget, and schedule; oversees formation of technical requirements and development of
functional (A-Staff project manager), allocated, and product baselines (WXG Project Manager);
oversees preparation of appropriate project level and configuration management documentation
and implementation plans; staffs baseline changes to appropriate CCBs; and ensures required
Certification and Accreditation documents are prepared by AFWA/A6, contractors, and/or 2
WXG/DOS.


     2.12. Program Manager: Directs the day-to-day actions of the program (see Attachment 1
     for definition of a program) to ensure the interdependent project tasks composing the
     program meet the expectations of scope, budget, and schedule; ensures the program manager
     actions specified in AFI63-101 and AFI33-200 as assigned are accomplished to include
     associated EITDR entries are made on behalf of the program.
     2.13. AFWA Configuration Control Board: Approves new capability and/or
     modifications to existing functional baselines. The AFWA Configuration Control Board is
     chaired by the AFWA/CC and its membership is defined in this instruction. The AFWA
     CCB Charter is Attachment 2 to this instruction.
     2.14. Weather Group Configuration Control Boards: Approves new capability and/or
     modifications to existing allocated and product baselines. Configuration Control Boards will
     be implemented by 1 WXG and 2 WXG to manage and control changes to the allocated and
     product baselines owned by the respective weather groups. Board processes and
     responsibilities will be documented in a board charter. WXG CCB charters will comply with
     CCB responsibilities addressed in AFI 33-200 and AFI33-210 and will be coordinated with
     AFWA/A6 and AFWA/A5/8. WXGs are expected to involve A-Staff system engineering,
     architectural, scientific, and information assurance SME’s in their CCB process when
     appropriate.
3. AFWA Configuration Control Processes. (See also Attachment 3)
     3.1. Operational Requirements and Needs Process: The AFWA Operational
     Requirements and Needs process starts when the AFWA/CC receives a validated
     requirement from the Air Staff or a MAJCOM; or an Operational Need from a WXG
AFWAI63-1 7 MAY 2010                                                                           5


  Commander (WXG/CC) or an AFWA A-Staff director. The AFWA/CC can validate an
  Operational Need to create an Operational Requirement, task an AFWA unit or the AFWA
  A-Staff to work an Operational Requirement, request Air Staff validation of the Operational
  Requirement or Operational Need, or have AFWA/A3 staff the Operational Requirement or
  Operational Need for the best approach to implementing the requested capability.
  Definitions of the terms Operational Requirement and an Operational Need are found in
  Attachment 1 and the Operational Requirement and Needs process is addressed further in
  Attachment 3.
  3.2. Deficiency Process: The process starts with the identification of a quality, materiel, or
  design deficiency (see definitions of these terms in Attachment 1) by the AFWA A-Staff, 1
  WXG, 2 WXG, or an external stakeholder. A separate Air Force process defined in AFI 63-
  501, Air Force Acquisition Quality Program; AFI 21-115, Product Quality Deficiency
  Report Program; and Technical Manual TO 00-35D-54 USAF Deficiency Reporting,
  Investigation and Resolution addresses deficiency processing and is beyond the scope of this
  instruction. Quality and materiel deficiencies that are identified and can be corrected by a
  WXG by changing an allocated or product baseline will be validated by the WXG/CC and
  worked by the WXG via the WXG Capability Track (paragraph 4.3). Deficiencies identified
  by the A-Staff or an external stakeholder will be evaluated by AFWA/A3, and if evaluated
  favorably, forwarded to AFWA/CC as an Operational Need for validation and tasking.
  Validated deficiencies correctable by changes to the allocated or product baseline are tasked
  to the applicable WXG for action. For deficiencies requiring changes to a functional
  baseline, AFWA/CC will task AFWA/A5/8 or AFWA/A6 as appropriate, for action on
  documentation, prioritization, and execution of the correction via the A-Staff Capability or
  Air Force Material Command (AFMC)/Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) Track.
  3.3. Technology Transition Requirements Process: The process begins with the
  discovery or development of a new or enhanced scientific algorithm or capability to address
  unmet capability shortfalls, improve accuracy, or reduce processing costs. Once the validity
  and efficacy of the technical capability are assessed favorably by the AFWA Chief Scientist,
  the Operational Need is validated by a WXG/CC and tasked to be developed via the WXG
  Capability Track. However if a change to an AFWA Functional Baseline is required, the
  WXG/CC must forward the Operational Need to the AFWA/CC for further action via the
  Operational Requirements and Needs Process.
  3.4. Squadron Process: Field units can submit Operational Needs to their servicing
  Operational Weather Squadron (OWS), 2nd Weather Squadron, 2nd Systems Operations
  Squadron, or 14th Weather Squadron. If satisfying the Operational Need is within the
  capability of the squadron, the commander can validate the Operational Need and take action
  to satisfy the new Operational Requirement. Operational Needs which are determined to be
  beyond the capability of the squadron to satisfy, or require a change to a functional baseline,
  should be returned to the requesting unit or agency for action via their MAJCOM or the Air
  Staff. However, if the Operational Need is deemed by the squadron to have merit as a future
  AFWA capability, it should be forwarded to the parent weather group for consideration and
  further action via the Operational Requirements and Needs Process described above.
  Squadrons or WXGs will publish guidance or an instruction to further specify this process.
  3.5. Basic Needs Process: Basic Needs (see Attachment 1) are normally addressed by
  AFWA Weather Squadrons. Basic Needs which are determined to be beyond the capability
 6                                                                     AFWAI63-1 7 MAY 2010


     of these squadrons should be returned to the requesting unit or agency for action via their
     MAJCOM or the Air Staff. If the Basic Need is deemed by the AFWA Squadron to have
     merit as a future AFWA capability, it should be forwarded via channels to their Weather
     Group Commander for consideration and further action via the applicable process discussed
     above. WXGs will publish guidance or a Group Instruction to further specify this process.
4. Capability Tracks.
     4.1. A-Staff Capability Track: AFWA/A5/8 or AFWA/A6 will task a division to appoint a
     Program or Project Manager, as appropriate. A functional baseline is developed, or an
     existing functional baseline is modified, and then presented to the AFWA CCB for approval.
     If it is determined that the best approach is for the A-Staff to allocate funding to have a
     contractor or an outside agency develop the required capability, then the existing Project
     Manager will manage the project from the development of allocated and product baseline to
     the delivery of the capability and documentation to the WXG for implementation.
     Otherwise, AFWA/CC will task the appropriate WXG to complete the capability
     development via the WXG Capability Track. Additional details are at Attachment 4.
     4.2. AFMC/AFSPC Capability Track: If it is determined by AFWA/A5/8 or AFWA/A6
     that the capability development should be accomplished by AFMC or AFSPC or a change to
     an AFMC or AFSPC managed baseline is required, the responsible AFWA Directorate will
     work with the respective SPO or Air Logistics Center to develop the capability to meet the
     requirement. Details of the AFMC/AFSPC Capability Track are outside the scope of this
     instruction. However, any changes required to AFWA-maintained baselines resulting from
     the new/modified capability will progress through the A-Staff or WXG Capability Tracks.
     4.3. WXG Capability Track: If it is determined that the desired capability can be met
     without modifying any functional baseline or a new functional baseline is delivered without
     an allocated or product baseline then the tasked WXG will appoint a Project Manager to
     manage the project from the development of allocated and product baseline to the delivery of
     the capability and documentation for implementation. Additional details are at Attachment 4.
     This track can also be applied to WXG Operational Requirements that do not require changes
     to AFWA Functional Baselines and are within the capability of the WXG to develop and
     implement. In this case the WXG/CC will validate the WXG Operational Need to create an
     Operational Requirement. WXG Operational Needs that do not meet either of these criteria
     must follow the Operational Requirements and Needs Process. 1 WXG and 2 WXG will
     supplement this instruction or publish a supporting instruction to specify additional detailed
     WXG Capability Track procedures.
     4.4. WXG Needs Track: To be documented by WXGs in supporting document(s).
5. prescribed and Adopted Forms.
     5.1. Prescribed Forms. No forms are prescribed in this publication.
     5.2. Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

                                              JOHN D. MURPHY, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
AFWAI63-1 7 MAY 2010                                                                        7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-601, Capabilities-Based Requirements Development, 31 July 2006
AFI 10-604, Capabilities-Based Planning, 10 May 2006
AFI 15-182, Weather Operations Capabilities-Based Activities, 7 December 2007
AFI 21-115, Product Quality Deficiency Report Program, 9 April 2003
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance Management, 23 December 2008
AFI 33-210, Air Force Certification and Accreditation Program, 23 December 2008
AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System, 30 August 2006
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 April 2009
AFI 63-501, Air Force Acquisition Quality Program, 31 May 1994
AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems Engineering, 23 July 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
CJCSI 3170.01F, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 1 May 2007
CJCSI 6212.01, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology and National
Security Systems, 15 December 2008
CJCSM 3170.01C, Operation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 1
May 2007
DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
DoDI 5000.2, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 8 December 2008
MIL-HDBK-61A, Military Handbook, Configuration Management Guidance, 7 February 2001
TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution, 1 July 2004
https://akss.dau.mil/dag, Defense Acquisition Guidebook
http://www.product-lifecycle-management.com, Product Lifecycle Management

Abbreviations and Acronyms
WXG—1st Weather Group
WXG—2d Weather Group
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
 8                                                                   AFWAI63-1 7 MAY 2010


AFWA—Air Force Weather Agency
AFWA/A3—Operations, Training, and Evaluation Directorate
AFWA/A5/8—Strategic Plans, Requirements, and Programs Directorate
AFWA/A6—Communications Directorate
AFWA/CC—Commander, Air Force Weather Agency
CCB—Configuration Control Board
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CJCSM—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DOTMLPF—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and education, Personnel,
and Facilities
EITDR—Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository
SSS—Electronic Staff Summary Sheet
HQ AFWA—Headquarters, Air Force Weather Agency
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OWS—Operational Weather Squadron
SPO—System Program Office
WXG—Weather Group
WXG/CC—Weather Group Commander

Terms
Allocated Baseline—The documentation describing a Configuration Item’s functional,
performance, interoperability, and interface requirements that are allocated from those of a
system or higher-level configuration item; interface requirements with interfacing configuration
items; and the verifications required to confirm the achievement of those specified requirements.
Basic Need—Basic Needs are primarily Return-To-Service issues. They include password,
web/web link, and subscription issues and those actions assigned to the 2 WXG’s Help Desk by
the 2 WXG/CC.
Capability—Ability to achieve a desired effect under specified standards and conditions through
combinations of means and ways to perform a set of tasks (CJCSI 3170.01F). Capabilities are
the output the Operational Requirements and Needs Process. Capabilities are improved by the
Deficiency Process and the Technology Transition Requirements Process.
Certification and Accreditation (C&A)—Process to ensure information assurance for all Air
Force procured information systems and guest systems operating on or accessed from the Air
Force-Global Information Grid. The central component used to satisfy policy requirements of
Department of Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process is the
AFWAI63-1 7 MAY 2010                                                                            9


completion of IT Lean and the Security, Interoperability, Supportability, Sustainability, and
Usability checklist in the Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository.
Configuration Control—(1) A systematic process that ensures that changes to released
configuration documentation are properly identified, documented, evaluated for impact,
approved by an appropriate level of authority, incorporated, and verified. (2) The configuration
management activity concerning the systematic proposal, justification, evaluation, coordination,
and disposition of proposed changes; and the implementation of all approved and released
changes into (a) the applicable configurations of a product, (b) associated product information,
and (c) supporting and interfacing products (including commercial off-the-shelf and operating
system) and their associated product information.
Configuration Control Board—A board composed of technical and administrative
representatives who recommend approval or disapproval of proposed engineering changes to,
and proposed deviations from, a configuration item’s current approved configuration
documentation.
Configuration Item—A Configuration Item is any hardware, software, or combination of both
that satisfies an end use function and is designated for separate configuration management.
Configuration Management—A management process for establishing and maintaining
consistency of a product’s performance, functional, and physical attributes with its requirements,
design and operational information throughout its life. The Defense Acquisition Guidebook
defines configuration management as the application of sound business practices to establish and
maintain consistency of a product's attributes with its requirements and product configuration
information. It involves interaction among government and program functions such as systems
engineering, design engineering, logistics, contracting, and manufacturing in an Integrated
Product Team environment. Configuration management includes system hardware, software,
and documentation (data). A configuration management process guides the system products,
processes, and related documentation, and facilitates the development of open systems.
Configuration Management efforts result in a complete audit trail of decisions and design
modifications. The elements of configuration management include Configuration Management
Planning and Management, Configuration Identification, Configuration Control, Configuration
Status Accounting, and Configuration Verification and Audit.
Design Deficiency—Any condition that limits or prevents the use of materiel for the purpose
intended or required where the materiel meets all other specifications or contractual
requirements. These deficiencies cannot be corrected except through a design change.
Functional Baseline—Quantitative performance parameters and design constraints, including
operational and logistic parameters and their respective tolerances. Functional characteristics
include all performance parameters, such as range, speed, lethality, reliability, maintainability,
and safety.
Rapid Level—of-Effort Assessment—A determination whether a task is within the unit’s
mission, whether the requested suspense can be met, whether additional resources are required,
and a recommended priority or adjusted suspense. Suspense for a rapid level-of-effort
assessment is usually a week or less.
 10                                                                   AFWAI63-1 7 MAY 2010


Material Deficiency—The failure of an item or end item, which worked initially, that was not
attributable to either the repair or manufacturing process, but was due to an unpredictable failure
of a component or subassembly.
Operational Need—These are unit requests for AFWA support that have not been validated by
a MAJCOM, Air Staff, or an AFWA Commander. Once validated, Operational Needs become
Operational Requirements. Other than responding to requests for rapid level-of-effort
assessments, work is not normally done on an Operational Need.
Operational Requirement—An Operational Need or a request for a new or modified capability
that has been validated by the Air Staff, a MACOM, or an AFWA Commander.
Product—Item, materiel, data, software, supplies, system, assembly, subassembly, or portion
thereof which is produced, purchased, developed, or otherwise used by the Government. (TO
00-35D-54)
Product Baseline—A Configuration Item’s detailed design documentation including, for
software, the source code and components listing, and those verifications necessary for accepting
product deliveries during the production, operation, maintenance, and logistic support of its life
cycle.
Quality Deficiency—A deficiency attributable to errors in workmanship, nonconformance to
specifications (initial failure), drawing standards, or other technical requirements.
Program—These are usually long-term efforts with multiyear funding, interrelated projects, and
are usually worked by SPOs or contractors. Programs require support throughout the life of the
system or capability (acquisition to retirement). Programs require a more complex governing
structure because they involve fundamental support changes and expenditures with significant
bottom-line impact. Programs are almost always managed by the AFWA A-Staff.
Project—A project is generally designed to achieve a particular outcome and may be associated
with a program. Projects usually have a near-term suspense with well-stated goals and
objectives. Most work at AFWA involving configuration control are projects.
System Deficiency—Any condition that limits or prevents the use of materiel for the purpose
intended or required, A deficiency in an operational enclave that is preventing or hindering the
accomplishment of a current capability. System deficiencies do not normally occur as a result of
a new capability but evolve slowly over time or as a result of a change to overarching directives
or external factors. A deficiency which has occurred as a result of a new or modified existing
capability is addressed as part of the new/modified capability implementation.
Test and Evaluation Deficiencies—These are deficiencies (on hardware or software) identified
during government conducted or managed test and evaluation. These deficiencies are discovered
during developmental test and evaluation, or those that fail to meet operational requirements as
measured during operational test and evaluation. These include, but are not limited to,
deficiencies that are the result of incompatibility or failures as measured against required
capabilities, applicable specifications, procedures, or test equipment and may include
recommendations for enhancements to improve operational safety, suitability, and effectiveness.
(TO 00-35D-54)
AFWAI63-1 7 MAY 2010                                                                         11


                                        Attachment 2
      AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY CONFIGURATION CONTROL BOARD

CHARTER


12 February 2010


1. Purpose:


The Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA) Configuration Control Board (CCB) exists to control
changes to and configurations of AFWA functional baselines in accordance with AFWA
Instruction 63-1 to ensure optimum and efficient operations. The AFWA CCB reviews and
approves changes or additions to AFWA functional baselines and their associated requirements.


2. Membership:


a. Chair: AFWA Commander


b. Alternate Chair: AFWA Vice Commander


c. Members: AFWA Technical Director; Director, Operations, Training and Evaluation
Directorate; Director, Strategic Plans, Requirements, and Programs Directorate; Director,
Communications Directorate; 1st Weather Group Commander; 2d Weather Group Commander


d. Advisors: AFWA Chief Scientist; AFWA Chief Engineer; AFWA Information Assurance
Manager


3. Operating Procedures:


The AFWA CCB operates primarily as a virtual board reviewing and approving/disapproving
staff packages containing proposed changes or additions to AFWA functional baselines. The
acting AFWA CCB Chair approves or disapproves the proposed change. AFWA A-Staff
directorates and weather groups sponsoring changes to functional baselines will submit
electronic staff summary sheets to AFWA CCB members and advisors. If the CCB Chair so
directs, the sponsoring agency will arrange an AFWA CCB meeting and prepare a briefing for
the AFWA CCB membership. Documents associated with an approved functional baseline
change will be incorporated into the appropriate functional baseline.
 12                                                              AFWAI63-1 7 MAY 2010



The AFWA CCB delegates control and approval of changes to allocated and product baselines to
AFWA Weather Group CCBs.


4. Changes to the Charter:


The AFWA CCB manages recommended charter changes as baseline changes requiring CCB
approval. AFWA A-Staff directorates and weather groups will staff charter changes in
accordance with AFWA CCB operating procedures above.


5. Approval:


Approved/Disapproved.                                Dated ______________________



JOHN D. MURPHY, Colonel, USAF
Commander
AFWAI63-1 7 MAY 2010                                                                               13


                                           Attachment 3
                OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND NEEDS PROCESS

* If a unit can meet the need with internal resources, then the unit should do it. If it cannot, then
the unit should up-channel the need to the next higher headquarters.


Detailed Process
Flow of Operational Requirements or Operation Needs to AFWA/CC.
1. AFWA/CC receives an Operational Requirement from a MAJCOM or the Air Staff.
2. AFWA units receive or develop Operational Needs. If the unit commander validates it, it
becomes an Operational Requirement and the unit works a solution. However Operational
Needs beyond the ability of the unit to satisfy must be forwarded to the unit’s WXG for action.
If the WXG/CC validates it, it becomes an Operational Requirement and the WXG works a
solution. However, Operational Needs beyond the ability of the WXG to satisfy must be
forwarded to AFWA/CC for action.
3. Operational Needs developed by the A-Staff divisions are forwarded to their directorate for
approval. AFWA Directors then forward the Operational Needs to AFWA/CC.
4. AFWA/CC can validate the Operational Need and it becomes an Operational Requirement.
Non-validated Operational Needs are returned to the requestor.
5. AFWA/CC can also request AF/A3O-W validation of the Operational Need. AF/A3O-W-
validated Operational Needs become Operational Requirements.
6. AF/A3O-W non-validated Operational Needs are returned to the requestor via AFWA
channels.


Processing of an Operational Need or Requirement.


7. Option 1 - AFWA/CC tasks a WXG or an A-Staff directorate to take action. (no rapid level-
of-effort assessment needed)
8. Option 2 - AFWA/CC tasks AFWA/A3, with their choice of a relevant WXG or A-Staff
OCR, to perform a rapid level-of-effort assessment (see terms in attachment 1) of the
Operational Requirement.
9. As part of the rapid level-of-effort assessment, AFWA/A3 requests and receives a
requirement check from AFWA/A5/8 (A5R) as to whether this Operational Requirement is a
new or existing requirement.
10. AFWA/A3 does a DOTMLPF assessment and combines it with the AFWA/A5R assessment
to form a recommendation. If AFWA/A3’s recommendation is the Operational Need is outside
of AFWA’s mission, this recommendation is passed to AFWA/CC for action and rapid level-of-
effort assessment terminates.
 14                                                              AFWAI63-1 7 MAY 2010


11. Otherwise AFWA/A3 requests applicable WXG or A-Staff directorate for rapid level-of-
effort assessment and the rapid level-of-level assessment is returned to AFWA/A3.
12. AFWA/A3 returns rapid level-of-effort assessment to AFWA/CC.
13. Either AFWA/CC tasks a WXG or an AFWA A-Staff directorate to take action, or
AFWA/CC requests assistance from AF/A3O-W, or AFWA/CC returns rapid level-of-effort
assessment to MAJCOM for their review and further action.
AFWAI63-1 7 MAY 2010                                                                            15


                                         Attachment 4
                     AFWA CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT TRACKS

A-Staff Capability Track.


1. Requirement Review (OPR: AFWA/A5/8 or AFWA/A6)
a. Document and database the Operational, System, or Technical Requirement.
b. Determine whether new requirement requires a new capability or modification to existing
capability.
c. Determine whether a SPO task or AFWA-internal task.
(1) Modification to existing AFMC/AFSPC baseline will normally be tasked to AFMC/AFSPC.
(2) If assigned to AFMC/AFSPC, development will now follow the AFMC/AFSPC Capability
Track.
d. Appoint Program Manager, or Project Manager, as appropriate.
2. Develop/Modify Functional Baseline (OPR: A-Staff Program Manager or Project Manager)
a. Breakdown Operational Requirement into technical requirements. Note: If during the
execution of this track it is determined that the capability can be met by an existing Functional
Baseline without modifications, the Program/Project Manager will prepare and staff an e-SSS for
the AFWA CCB for approval to process these requirements via the WXG Capability Track.
(1) For new capabilities, Program/Project managers should ensure engineering, architecture, and
information assurance requirements are addressed to create a new functional baseline.
(2) If new requirement(s) result in a modification to an existing baseline, merge the new
technical requirements into the existing functional baseline, making changes where necessary.
b. If the capability will involve Information Assurance matters concerning Special
Compartmented Information processing, 2 WXG should be consulted.
3. Conduct Functional Baseline Review (OPR: A-Staff Program Manager or Project Manager)
a. A-Staff engineering, architectural, information assurance, and science staff members review.
(via e-SSS)
b. AFWA CCB review. (via e-SSS and/or briefing)
4. Place new functional baseline in AFWA functional baselines configuration database.
(Program Manager or Project Manager). Note: Any future changes to this baseline must
undergo another functional baseline review.


Note: If the functional baseline was developed by contractor or a SPO/contractor team it is
possible that the allocated and product baselines would be also developed as part of the same
effort. If that is the case, then the A-Staff project/program manager would accomplish the WXG
Capability Track steps below.
 16                                                                  AFWAI63-1 7 MAY 2010



WXG Capability Track.


Below is a high-level view of the steps needed in this process. WXGs should expand these steps
in supporting document(s). WXGs should take advantage of A-Staff engineering, architectural,
information assurance, and science staff members while executing this track.


1. Develop/Modify Allocated Baseline. (WXG Project Manager)
2. Approve Allocated Baseline. (WXG CCB)
3. Develop/Modify Product Baseline. (WXG)
a. Preliminary Design.
b. Final Design.
4. Code and Unit Test.
5. Software Review. (AFI33-210)
6. Conduct Integration and Security Testing.
7. Conduct Acceptance Testing.
8. Hardware Baseline Review and Validation. (AFI 33-210)
9. Approve test results and Product Baseline(s). (WXG CCB)
10. Final Capability, approval e-SSS, and documentation (design, testing, security, and
operating) delivered to the appropriate WXG for implementation.


WXG Needs Track.


Documented by WXGs in supporting document(s).
