BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY MANUAL
AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY                                                    33-2

                                                                                 8 APRIL 2010
                                                           Certified Current 10 September 2013
                                                             Communications and Information

                                                           CONSOLIDATED NETWORK
                                                  CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT PLAN

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication and forms are available for downloading or ordering on
               the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions on the release of this publication.

OPR: 2 SYOS/SYOM                                                       Certified by: 2 WXG/CC
Supersedes: AFWAMAN33-2, 10 June                                      (Col John M. Egentowich)
            2003                                                                       Pages: 26


This manual establishes policies, procedures, and responsibilities for documenting and
modifying Headquarters Air Force Weather Agency (HQ AFWA) Consolidated Network (ACN)
processes, hardware, and software component configurations. Attachments to this manual define
ACN configuration standards. AFWA manages the ACN configuration to ensure required levels
of service for ACN users and to guarantee AFWA data availability, integrity, confidentiality, and
accountability. The ACN provides internal data communications for HQ AFWA automation
systems and links these systems to external users and suppliers. This manual implements Air
Force Instruction (AFI) 33-115, Volume 1, Network Operations; AFI 33-202V1, Network and
Computer Security; AFWA Manual (AFWAMAN) 33-1, Air Force Weather Agency
Consolidated Network Operations Manual. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims. The reporting requirements in
this publication are exempt from licensing in accordance with AFI 333-324, The Information
Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public and Interagency
Air Force Information Collections. Paragraphs 2.11.4 & 2.11.5 apply. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This publication does not
apply to the Air National Guard or the Air Force Reserve Command.
2                                                                                       AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include a new organization structure after an AFWA reorganization and it also reflects
new responsibilities post-AFNETOps.

       1.     ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES. ....................................................................                        2
       2.     PROCESS OVERVIEW. .......................................................................................               2
       3.     CONFIGURATION IDENTIFICATION ..............................................................                             5
       4.     INTERFACE MANAGEMENT ............................................................................                      5
       5.     CONFIGURATION CONTROL ...........................................................................                       7
       6.     CHANGES TO THE PLAN ..................................................................................                 13
       7.     Prescribed Forms. ..................................................................................................   13
       8.     Adopted Forms. .....................................................................................................   13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       14

Attachment 2—CHANGE APPROVAL                                                                                                         17

Attachment 3—ACN INFRASTRUCTURE MARKING STANDARD                                                                                     19

Attachment 4—NETWORK DEVICE NAMING STANDARD                                                                                          24

Attachment 5—ACCESS CONTROL LIST MANAGEMENT PROCESS                                                                                  26


1. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
    1.1. Management Resources. The 2d System Operations Squadron (2 SYOS) commander
    operates the AFWA Consolidated Network (ACN). AFWA Department of Defense (DoD)
    and contractor personnel manage the ACN configuration. DoD personnel direct ACN
    employment and configuration, while contractor personnel provide technical support for
    ACN operation and maintain network components.
    1.2. System Organization. ACN DoD personnel are assigned to the 2d System Operations
    Squadron (2 SYOS) System Operations Flight, Mission Support Center (SYOM). DoD
    personnel from SYOM represent users and operators on the Weekly Implementation and
    Maintenance Meeting (WIMM). Support and Services (S&S) contractors augment the ACN
    team under AFWA direction.
    1.3. Configuration Management (CM) Responsibility and Authority. 2 SYOS operates the
    ACN, directs configuration management and delegates authority for routine ACN operations
    to SYOM. Specific responsibilities of the ACN Management Team are detailed in
    AFWAMAN 33-1, ACN Operations Manual.
2. PROCESS OVERVIEW.
AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010                                                                    3


  2.1. Background. AFWA automation systems depend on fast, reliable communications both
  internally and with external users and suppliers. The ACN provides data communications
  between HQ AFWA automation platforms and between HQ AFWA systems and external
  interfaces. ACN integrates and manages all internal HQ AFWA data communication assets
  as a single, strategic system. Stable ACN service levels are critical to AFWA operational
  continuity and data security.
  2.2. Purpose. This ACN CM plan defines the process for documenting and modifying ACN
  procedures and component configurations and specifies accepted methods of identification,
  control, status accounting, and audit. The CM Plan defines a process for identifying,
  collecting, validating, storing, and updating configuration data. CM data includes the
  attributes of each Configuration Item (CI), interface and performance documentation, and the
  current status of each CI. This CM Plan identifies the CM organization and specifies
  responsibilities and authority of CM team members.
  2.3. Scope. This plan guides the MSC Chief in managing HQ AFWA data communications
  assets. The plan is directive for all personnel using or connecting to ACN assets. ACN
  includes all HQ AFWA production communications assets except Network Interface Cards
  (NIC) installed in end nodes. The ACN does not include administrative communications
  assets. All ACN connections with end user nodes or non-ACN systems are documented
  using an ACN Connectivity Request and are categorized based on the level of trust—which
  differs from the level of classification—accorded various assets and users.
  2.3.1. Trusted systems are those topologically connected inside the ACN security perimeter
  and controlled by AFWA. Trusted systems connect directly only with other trusted systems.
  Any electronic exchange with other than trusted systems is conducted exclusively through
  the base firewall.
     2.3.2. Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) systems connect to ACN firewall or DMZ components
     and may lack other external connections. They connect to trusted components only via
     the base firewall and maintain controlled external connectivity as defined by the AFWA
     Unclassified Production Environment accreditation documentation (e.g. SSAA, CCR).
     2.3.3. Untrusted users are connected to the base edge device and DMZ and may have one
     or more connections to other systems or networks outside AFWA control. These systems
     have no direct connectivity with trusted systems and only well-defined connectivity with
     DMZ systems via the edge device.
     2.3.4. Communications within Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) Facilities
     (SCIF) and all aspects of the secure (multi-level security) guards associated with SCIF
     interfaces to non-SCIF activities are subject to the constraints of both this Plan and
     separate SCI procedures.
     2.3.5. AFWA Tenants. AFWAMAN 33-2 is binding on untrusted networks and external
     users connected directly to or supported by ACN resources (these users are considered
     tenant networks). Untrusted networks and users include AFWA tenants who, while
     located within AFWA physical boundaries, are not connected to the trusted network or
     DMZ and may maintain independent, untrusted connections.
  2.4. System Description. ACN includes all internal, intersystem HQ AFWA data
  communications capabilities, associated firewalls, DMZ, edge devices, management systems,
4                                                            AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010


    Domain Name Servers (DNS), management performance (i.e., defined service levels), and
    configuration information. ACN integrates a backbone infrastructure and centralized routing,
    switching, and management capability with legacy communications assets and specialized
    communications networks delivered by other programs. ACN does not incorporate the end
    node NIC or other user communications interface devices but does specify the configuration,
    network addresses, and ports, services and protocols to be employed across ACN interfaces
    by connected systems.
       2.4.1. ACN is the top-level CI and is part of the Infrastructure Services group in the
       current Common Operating Environment (COE) taxonomy.
       2.4.2. ACN consists of several component, lower level CI’s.         The component CIs
       include:
           2.4.2.1. The Cable Plant consists of unshielded twisted pair (UTP) and fiber-optic
           cable, patch panels and termination points, equipment cabinets/racks, and the room
           cable grids.
           2.4.2.2. The Network Security consists of the Security Scanner and Reverse Proxies.
           2.4.2.3. Network Management includes internal DNS, monitoring and management
           platforms, associated operating systems and installed devices, and the hosted network
           management, customer service, and configuration management software.
           2.4.2.4. Networking Elements include switch and router hardware, firmware, installed
           devices (boards) and interfaces, and port configuration data for the Unclassified
           Production Network, Development Network, and Administrative Network, the
           Collateral Classified Network, the SCI and Joint Worldwide Intelligence
           Communications Systems (JWICS) networks, and the Defense Research and
           Engineering Network (DREN).
           2.4.2.5. The Long-Haul or Wide Area Network (WAN) Interface consists of network
           edge devices such as routers, multiplexers, and cryptographic equipment which
           defines the edge of the ACN at its interface to Common User Communications and
           other dedicated circuits.
           2.4.2.6. Network/Interface Protocols and Specifications include communications,
           ports, protocols, services, cables, associated users and management protocols
           specified for ACN operations and are documented in the accreditation documentation
           (e.g. SSAA, CCR).
           2.4.2.7. Network Data includes ACN performance, address, and configuration
           information. This data is a separate CI from the databases in which it is stored and
           the tools that generate it.
           2.4.2.8. The Test Bed consists of dedicated test equipment and associated network
           equipment assigned permanently to test functions and recommended changes to the
           ACN environment prior to implementation of changes to the live network. Vendor
           loan materials may be included in the Test Bed on a temporary basis as directed by
           the ACN TIM. Additionally, the test bed contains a separate Enterprise Management
           Bench managed by SYO used to test and evaluate various management software tools
           prior to implementation on the AFWA network.
AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010                                                                        5


  2.5. Data Management. S&S correlates and maintains all change management, asset
  management, and associated customer service records using COTS tools as defined herein
  and in AFWAMAN 33-1. Configuration data will be available in hard or softcopy to the
  MSC Chief, and A8P as well as system users. The MSC ensures ACN CM records are
  archived to off-line storage regularly. This includes applicable audit and action logs. On-
  line CM records will be accessible to the MSC Chief or A8P via standard queries. The S&S
  contractor and MSC technicians will maintain a data management plan specifying storage
  formats and access procedures for CM materials.
3. CONFIGURATION IDENTIFICATION
  3.1. Approach.      Configuration identification entails defining ACN in terms of its
  components—hardware, software, data, and interfaces—and ensuring the resulting
  definitions continuously reflect the operational ACN. The identification process establishes
  both a hierarchical structure and a labeling/naming system. The resulting documents include
  manufacturers’ product version descriptions and version number/date or source code listings
  for the computer software CIs (CSCI); interface specifications, and drawings and part and
  serial number listings for the hardware CIs (HWCI). HWCIs are marked and tracked using
  unique, barcode identifiers compliant with DoD directives for automation systems. Network
  data, protocols, and interface data are identified by CI type, document or database date,
  and/or recorded version.
  3.2. Establishing Baselines. The MSC Chief periodically directs a physical audit of the
  ACN to document the production baseline. The MSC Chief reviews and resolves variations
  between the baseline and existing inventories following the physical audit in order to certify
  the new baseline. The baseline documents hardware, software, cable plant locations,
  versions, and configurations at a specific point in time. Subsequent audits confirm that the
  baseline found at the audit is equal to the previous baseline plus the sum of the documented
  and approved changes. Deviations are highlighted and addressed in terms of their
  operational and security ramifications and corrected as required.
  3.3. Assigning and Applying Identifiers. All ACN software, hardware, and documentation
  are marked in accordance with identification schema outlined in attachments to this plan.
  Legacy components and those elements delivered by connecting systems and integrated into
  the ACN will retain their original identifications to the extent feasible. These identifications
  are updated using ACN schema when the element is modified. Hardware, board layout
  within hardware frames, cable plant, and terminations are tracked using system drawings in
  conjunction with applied bar code and name labels and associated CM databases.
4. INTERFACE MANAGEMENT
  4.1. Overview. An interface is the connection between ACN and a user system or network.
  The MSC Chief works with the connecting systems system administrator to design an
  interface and ensure accreditation documentation is completed accurately. The A6
  Configuration Change Request (CCR) is required to update all changes to the accreditation
  document (i.e. SSAA) of a system. Documentation includes expected performance,
  accreditation impacts of the connection, hardware/software, and ports, protocols and services.
  The WIMM reviews proposed interfaces and changes to existing interfaces in light of
  impacts on ACN system accreditation and performance resulting from the actions. Interface
  actions are handled in the same manner as other configuration changes.
6                                                             AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010


    4.2. Connectivity Request. The ACN Connectivity Request is a part of the Internal Help
    Desk software used to define and document all ACN interface work tickets. Help desk
    software documents the detailed change process and work flow. The end user must also
    submit the applicable accreditation documentation or CCR. The Configuration Control
    Board (CCB) must approve a CCR for any new system or network connected directly to any
    ACN components. Before such a connection becomes operational and/or permanent,
    appropriate approval must be obtained. Users must also submit, for A8P adjudication, a
    CCR for any change (e.g., additional or reduced connectivity, use of different media or
    protocols, moving connection points) to an existing connection. The MSC and A6 assists
    users in preparing CCRs and works with S&S to evaluate expected impacts. Connectivity
    requests and their associated work orders are maintained in the Internal Help Desk software
    database and off-line. The MSC Chief, SYOO, SYO Chief, and 2 SYOS/DO can approve
    temporary or emergency interface changes subject to WIMM ratification.
       4.2.1. Process.     Changes to ACN interfaces are managed like other network
       configuration changes. An ACN help desk work ticket and CCR must be generated to
       initiate any interface action. The help desk software provides the Connectivity Request
       to document essential aspects of each change to ACN interfaces. The CCR provides a
       signed record showing approval of the connection and is the mechanism for updating the
       formal accreditation of a system (i.e. SSAA). Accordingly, a work ticket requesting
       connectivity cannot be processed until the associated CCR is completed and approved.
       Additional documentation may be required, as outlined in Section 5, depending on the
       magnitude and duration of the change. MSC technicians use the Connectivity Request
       work ticket to assign IP addresses for the connecting systems and document potential
       accreditation impacts for FSA review.
       4.2.2. Required Information.
           4.2.2.1. Connectivity Request. The Connectivity Request guides the requester in
           completing those fields required for the specific connectivity actions requested within
           the work ticket. In-line instructions are available for each entry. In general,
           requesters must specify the interface users and their restoral priority, points of
           contact, communications and network management protocols, connection points, IP
           addresses assigned, the accreditation level of the system(s) to be connected, and
           communications media employed. The ACN interface specifications do not address
           the types or formats of data to be exchanged. Connectivity Requests correlate each
           interface with relevant network drawings and networking hardware to ensure current,
           accurate configuration information.
           4.2.2.2. System Accreditation Change Request. The CCR is submitted any time
           changes in software (COTS, GOTS, and Open-source), hardware, connectivity, and
           other items that may affect the enclave’s security or accreditation. The system user
           submits a CCR form to the AFWA Information Assurance Office (A6O) that includes
           a clear request, justification, impact statement, risk mitigation, applicable software,
           hardware, and interface table. The interface table should include all IPs, ports,
           protocols, and services the connection will require. CCRs affecting the ACN should
           be coordinated with the ACN FSA at a minimum before being submitted to A6 for
           review. Connectivity is also dependent upon the CCR receiving AUPE CCB
           approval
AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010                                                                    7


  4.3. Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN) Plan. The MSC and S&S develop, implement,
  and update VLAN plans with WIMM approval. ACN employs VLANs for traffic and
  configuration control. VLANs constitute implied interfaces between ACN and users. The
  MSC Chief evaluates proposed modifications to these plans and may authorize temporary
  changes necessary for emergency support, sustainment of essential operations, or testing.
  4.4. Control. Only the 2 SYOS/DO, SYO Chief, SDO, SYOO, or MSC Chief may approve
  interim, emergency access or access modification for high-volume, time-critical, or one-time
  users. The MSC and S&S document these interim interfaces in the same manner as
  permanent interfaces. Only the WIMM, SYO Chief or MSC Chief may approve the addition
  of new, low-volume administrative users and direct assignment of IP addresses. All
  assignments are in accordance with the ACN address plan and MSC technicians make and
  document such assignments as directed for subsequent MSC Chief review.
     4.4.1. Users proposing or requesting an ACN interface provide the MSC Chief a
     projection of interface load (preferably in the form of packet flow for production or
     development connections) on the Connectivity Request. The MSC Chief assesses the
     impacts of this loading on ACN performance.
     4.4.2. The MSC and S&S monitor actual load resulting from each interface change and
     provide this data for regular review by the MSC Chief.
     4.4.3. The MSC Chief addresses deviations in actual loading from expectations and
     directs and/or approves appropriate action regarding the associated interfaces. MSC
     technicians annotate these changes on the appropriate Internal Help Desk work ticket,
     Connectivity Request.
5. CONFIGURATION CONTROL
  5.1. Change Process. This section specifies the change process business rules. ACN work
  orders initiate and document changes—regardless of magnitude—to the ACN. Help desk
  software documents the detailed change process and work flow. Depending on the
  magnitude of a change, different levels of documentation and approval are necessary.
  Extensive or costly changes require a waiver and/or deviation approval. New or altered
  connections require an Internal Help Desk work ticket, Connectivity Request. AF Forms
  3215, IT/NSS Requirements Document, document processes external to the ACN CM process
  and are incorporated, when necessary, into ACN CM documentation. ACN work tickets,
  supporting documentation, and AF IMTs 3215 pertaining to ACN are retained in accordance
  with AFMAN 33-363.
  5.2. Classifying Change. System changes may be corrective or adaptive and are prioritized.
  Preventative maintenance is performed in accordance with the S&S plan and AFWAMAN
  33-1 and is not classified as a change. Accordingly, it does not require a work order but is
  documented by S&S in the component’s work log. System Engineering Maintenance and
  Sustainment System Change Requests (SCRs), Engineering Change Proposals (ECPs), and
  AF IMTs 3215 provide supporting documentation and a vehicle to document approval for
  major changes. Any actions involving ACN components (e.g., hardware or software) and/or
  ACN policies and procedures are subject to the ACN CM process.
     5.2.1. System Change Request. SCRs are required for all adaptive changes to the ACN
     but are not used for corrective change or preventative maintenance. The individual
8                                                             AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010


       requesting a change uses help desk software to create a work order. The MSC Chief
       generates SCRs, when required.
       5.2.2. AF IMT 3215. ACN changes may require AF IMTs 3215 in accordance with
       AFWA and Offutt AFB policies. The MSC Chief ensures compliance with appropriate
       AFWA and host base directives.
       5.2.3. Priority Designation. The user defines the priority of a work order when it is
       submitted. The priority of an ACN work order must be approved by the appropriate
       authority as defined in Remedy business rules before the work order is addressed by the
       ACN support staff.
    5.3. Deviations and Waivers. Operational or economic considerations may necessitate
    operating or employing certain ACN elements in a non-standard manner (i.e., one that does
    not comply with standard ACN design specifications or operational policy). Deviations and
    waivers provide the means of approving and tracking such operations. Any user requesting a
    non-standard communications configuration must submit a deviation or waiver, as
    appropriate, in conjunction with the work order for such a change as well as submit
    appropriate accreditation documents to A6OS (e.g. Configuration Change Request).
       5.3.1. Definitions. Deviations provide interim approval (less than 30 days) for operation
       or implementation of non-standard elements or procedures, while waivers provide longer-
       term or permanent authority for non-standard elements or practices.
           5.3.1.1. The 2 SYOS/DO, SYO Chief, SYOO, and MSC Chief are authorized to
           approve deviations for mission critical (e.g. emergency) ACN work orders. The
           SDO cannot approve deviations for routine ACN work orders. Deviations shall be
           processed using the procedure outlined in AFWAMAN 33-1.
       5.3.2. A deviation will not extend beyond 30 days. A new deviation will not be issued or
       approved for the same or essentially similar situations for which an earlier deviation has
       expired. The WIMM is the final authority regarding the terms “same” and “essentially
       similar.”
           5.3.2.1. Deviations and waivers will be attached to, adjudicated, and tracked in the
           same manner as the SCR for which they are requested.
           5.3.2.2. The ACN work ticket format provides space for relevant information for a
           waiver or deviation request.
           5.3.2.3. S&S CM tracks the status of waivers and deviations applicable to the
           operational system.
           5.3.2.4. ACN baseline changes made under a deviation are removed at or before the
           end of the 30-day period unless the user takes action to initiate and gain approval for
           an ACN waiver for the change. Waivers for periods less than permanent are managed
           in a similar manner.
    5.4. Process Initiation. AFWA users utilize help desk tools to initiate work orders for ACN
    connectivity, maintenance, or modification. Network management tools generate alarms
    through the alarm notification manager’s display to the SDO based on thresholds set by the
    MSC Chief.
AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010                                                                   9


     5.4.1. Associated Documentation. The individual submitting the requirement for change
     must also complete the associated documentation needed to support an ACN work order.
     The help desk software provides the tools needed to complete the required work ticket
     documentation on line, and the MSC may assist the user in completing these forms.
     Additionally, required paperwork should include all associated accreditation
     documentation (e.g. SSAA, CCR). The user should provide as much of the information
     as possible to expedite the process.
     5.4.2. Initial Review. The help desk software assigns routine ACN work orders to the
     MSC Chief. Other work orders are first assigned to an approval authority—who may
     also be the SDO under certain conditions—and then to the MSC Chief. The SDO is
     notified of all emergency work orders and may assign these work orders for work during
     non-duty hours. The SDO or MSC Chief may also refer a work order to the ACN TIM
     process (see AFWAMAN 33-1), S&S, A6 or the MSC staff for cost estimates and design
     analysis before approving the work. The MSC Chief refers work orders requiring new
     equipment to A8P and the Senior Network Engineer in A6C. The Senior Network
     Engineer provides design integration, detailed parts list, and cost estimates. The MSC
     Chief may also contact the user in order to complete portions of the additional
     documentation or to resolve uncertainties in the requirement.
        5.4.2.1. The MSC Chief, MSC, A8P, A6C, and/or S&S personnel, as needed,
        perform cost and impact analyses on the work order and annotate their findings on the
        primary or any child work orders and record time spent on the work order. They
        handle required inputs on any supporting documentation in a similar fashion.
        5.4.2.2. The ACN and connecting system functional system administrator or project
        manager must inform A6O of the expected changes and work with A6O to determine
        impacts to both the ACN and the connecting system(s). This change is done in a
        CCR or by means of existing accreditation packages and permits A6O to assess
        potential risks/impacts and advise the AUPE CCB if the requested changes will
        require significant changes to the ACN and/or DAA review or approval for
        reaccreditation of the system.
        5.4.2.3. MSC technicians will assign needed IP addresses for each system as part of
        the work ticket Connectivity Request. DHCP will be used as applicable. The help
        desk software correlates these addresses with the asset database and provides
        associated IP address management tools for the MSC staff.
     5.4.3. Change Approval. Once preliminary analysis and initial review are complete, a
     work order is assigned to the ACN MSC Chief for review and adjudication. Depending
     on the parameters of the work order, the MSC Chief may approve the work.
     5.4.4. Documentation. The ACN TIM secretariat ensures all decisions on ACN work
     orders are documented. Management software automatically documents many change
     actions, but network management software documentation is after the fact and is intended
     to provide only interim documentation and audit support. The help desk software is the
     ACN formal review and approval process for all work orders and ACN change actions.
        5.4.4.1. The ACN TIM secretariat —with S&S CM support—ensures summaries of
        ACN work order actions are made available, via the TIM Minutes, as necessary.
10                                                           AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010


           5.4.4.2. The S&S Logistician and MSC personnel use help desk software to associate
           all approved work orders with the relevant network components in the asset database.
           S&S technicians document all connectivity changes in the switch configuration
           database, and they provide redlines to ACN drawings which are incorporated by S&S
           draftsmen and subsequently reviewed and adjudicated by the ACN TIM. CCRs are
           used to update ACN accreditation documents as required. Together, these records
           constitute the official record of changes to the network configuration. The help desk
           asset database is maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363 in order to
           document configuration changes and track repair histories.
           5.4.4.3. Some major changes or waivers may be adjudicated by the ACN TIM prior
           to initiating a work order. Such actions usually require SCR as well. The S&S CM
           staff documents such decisions in the appropriate meeting minutes and subsequently
           coordinates with the ACN TIM Chair for entry of these decisions as help desk work
           orders. TIM minutes documenting details of actions are maintained in accordance
           with AFMAN 33-363.
     5.5. Change Execution. Once a configuration change is approved for work, help desk work
     flow guides execution of the change.
        5.5.1. Approval of the primary work order for a required change initiates the actual
        change.
           5.5.1.1. The MSC Chief prioritizes the work order in a rank-order work list of
           outstanding ACN work orders for the MSC and S&S teams. S&S and MSC
           technicians input implementation requests as required and accomplish the associated
           coordination to reach the WIMM at least 1 week prior to implementation for all but
           emergency implementations.
           5.5.1.2. The MSC staff and S&S periodically record their progress on each work
           order using help desk software, and the ACN TIM reviews this progress to identify
           and adjudicate any concerns.
           5.5.1.3. The support staffs may reassign work orders and generate child work orders
           as necessary to complete the effort as required.
           5.5.1.4. MSC technicians review work completed to confirm it is responsive to the
           work order.
           5.5.1.5. S&S develops appropriate redlines for all relevant baseline drawings, and A6
           personnel and MSC staff review these drawings to ensure their accuracy. The
           WIMM must adjudicate their incorporation into the ACN baseline.
        5.5.2. Closure. When the ACN support staff reports a work order is complete, the help
        desk software queries the user to ensure concurrence. The MSC Chief reviews user
        responses and staff comments on the work and closes. The MSC Chief —or the MSC
        staff—documents this action on the associated work order.
        5.5.3. Component Management. ACN periodically acquires new equipment, retires
        older equipment, and realigns equipment between bench stock, repair, and operational
        status. These actions are also initiated and tracked using work orders, and S&S tracks
        equipment movement using the help desk asset database.
AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010                                                                    11


         5.5.3.1. A8P initiates the cycle by ordering equipment in response to work order
         requirements. The MSC Chief or Senior Network Engineer enters the parts list on the
         work order and advises the S&S personnel and the AFWA Equipment Custodian’s
         office of the parts and associated project.
         5.5.3.2. S&S receives all incoming ACN operational and spare components and
         identifies any discrepancies between ordered and received lists. The S&S personnel
         also mark all new components in accordance with ACN standards, enters these
         components in the asset management database, and tracks their deployment. Those
         items considered expendables are neither labeled nor entered into the asset
         configuration database. The S&S personnel track component levels and expenditure
         rates for these items as part of their bench stock process and update the sparing plan
         accordingly.
         5.5.3.3. S&S tracks changes in status as components are realigned between
         operations, maintenance, and bench stock and indicates final disposition for those
         components permanently removed from service. The S&S personnel ensures these
         changes are logged in the ACN asset database and routinely cross-checked
         automatically by system management and help desk software.
  5.6. Configuration Status Accounting. The help desk software and its associated asset
  management database are the primary ACN configuration status accounting tools. The
  baseline drawing set is maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, the network models,
  and proceedings of the ACN TIM meetings supplement the help desk database. While the
  MSC Chief has overall responsibility for ACN CM, the individual components are populated
  and maintained by S&S and MSC technicians. The MSC ensure no changes are
  implemented unless appropriately documented using CM tools, and then monitors these
  activities. S&S updates the CM databases and drawings to reflect current ACN configuration
  in accordance with contractual requirements and MSC Chief’s direction.
     5.6.1. ACN employs the Remedy Action Request System help desk software for primary
     hardware configuration status accounting.
     5.6.2. The MSC guides S&S in developing a CM data management plan for relevant CM
     parameters.
         5.6.2.1. The MSC Chief, in coordination with A6 defines documentation standards
         for databases, interface documents and definitions, and drawings.
         5.6.2.2. S&S personnel maintain the ACN data management plan and populates and
         updates the underlying databases including both configuration and performance data.
         5.6.2.3. ACN CM data accurately reflects the operational system configuration at all
         times. Superseded data is annotated according to its effective dates and retained as
         appropriate following recession.
         5.6.2.4. S&S technicians configure network metrics collection software to
         periodically collect operational performance parameters.
         5.6.2.5. The help desk databases are designed and configured to cross reference
         configuration changes as tracked by work orders with associated drawings, part
12                                                             AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010


            numbers, version number tables, etc. The tools are accessible to authorized ACN
            staff and AFWA managers with read-only or read and write privileges, as appropriate.
            5.6.2.6. S&S personnel maintain a connectivity database for each asset supporting
            connections documenting end users connected to that asset’s ports. This database is
            correlated with IP and Media Access Control (MAC) addresses as appropriate.
     5.7. Configuration Reports. The MSC Chief coordinates with S&S to produce periodic
     reports of ACN configuration and component status. Reports are generated for the MSC
     Chief to validate and identify the operational system configuration and performance and
     proposed or enacted configuration changes to provide a vehicle for MSC Chief decision
     making.
     5.8. Configuration Audits. The MSC Chief direct CM audits using the work order process to
     confirm the accuracy and currency of CM databases, documents, drawings, and reports.
     These audits entail a physical review of the ACN components and the configurations of
     operational hardware and software. The auditor compares collected data with current
     databases and records exceptions in the audit report. The MSC Chief periodically certifies
     the currency of existing CM databases and their correspondence with recent reports, this
     Plan, and the operational system. Corrective actions are tasked and documented using child
     work orders associated with the original work order tasking the audit. The MSC Chief
     ensures these audits and any resulting corrective actions are documented on SharePoint.
        5.8.1. Functional and Physical Audits. The MSC Chief directs functional and physical
        audits annually or whenever a new MSC Chief is assigned. The direction is issued as an
        ACN work order identifying the purpose, scope, and duration of the audit. These audits
        compare existing procedures, performance, and configuration with those documented in
        AFWAMANs 33-1, 33-2, and current CM databases and reports and are retained in
        accordance with AFMAN 33-363. The technicians correlate the functional and physical
        audits and merge the findings with the CM database.
        5.8.2. Interim Audits. The MSC develops an interim audit plan in conjunction with the
        FSAs, technicians, and S&S to ensure routine review of all aspects of ACN
        configuration. The technicians and S&S conduct and document interim audits and ensure
        routine network changes are thoroughly documented and validated or removed from the
        operational system. These limited audits also ensure compliance with the time
        constraints of temporary installations and assess system security and performance.
        5.8.3. Security Audits. A6OS initiates periodic, unannounced audits to assess ACN
        physical and functional security and compliance with established risk management plans
        and procedures. The S&S assists in these audits and document the results and any
        corrective actions using work orders as appropriate for the security level of the results.
        A6OS reviews proposed corrective actions and recommends actions to the MSC Chief
        regarding closure or additional corrective actions.
        5.8.4. Audit Reports. The FSA initiates the child work orders for corrective actions
        identified during audits. Work orders resulting from an audit will not generally be the
        source of a CCR but may result in modification of existing ACN accreditation
        documentation. Work orders generated in response to an audit may also result in
        restoring the actual system configuration to the authorized configuration by removing
AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010                                                                  13


      unauthorized or expired interfaces or configurations. The FSA summarizes actions taken
      in response to an audit on the associated work orders and reports them to the MSC Chief
      for review and approval of related work orders. WIMM approval, including approval of
      relevant ACN TIM Minutes, validates adjustments made to the system configuration
      and/or CM records in response to an audit. The MSC Chief documents closure of the
      associated work orders and WIMM actions in the CM database and ensures all associated
      CCRs or accreditation documentation has been completed.
6. CHANGES TO THE PLAN
   6.1. Automated Change. Formal requests for changes to this document should be initiated
   through the POC. Other requests for change can be submitted to the POC through the SYO.
7. Prescribed Forms. None.
8. Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                          JOHN D. MURPHY, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
14                                                       AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
CSC-STD 002-85, DoD Password Management Guideline, 12 April 1985
MIL-HDBK-61, Configuration Management Guidance, 7 February 2001
AFI 33-115V1, Network Operations, 24 May 2006
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management, 23 December 2008
AFI 333-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling
Internal, Public and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 June 2000
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFWAMAN 33-1, AFWA Consolidated Network Operations Manual, 8 February 2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms
SYOS—2nd Systems Operations Squadron
ACL—Access Control List
ACN—AFWA Consolidated Network
ACNIR—ACN Innerduct Run
AFB—Air Force Base
AFEMS—Air Force Equipment Systems
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFWA—Air Force Weather Agency
AFWAMAN—Air Force Weather Agency Manual
AIMS—Asset Inventory Management System
C4—Command, Control, Communications, and Computer Systems
CAD—Computer Aided Drafting/Drawing
CCB—Configuration Control Board
CCR—Configuration Change Request
CI—Configuration Item
CM—Configuration Management
COE—Common Operating Environment
COTS—Commercial Off the Shelf
AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010                                    15


CP—Connection Panels
CSCI—Computer Software CI
DAA—Designated Approval Authority
DHCP—Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
DMZ—Demilitarized Zone
DNS—Domain Name Server
DoD—Department of Defense
EC—Equipment Custodian
ECP—Engineering Change Proposal
FDC—Fiber Distribution Center
FSA—Functional System Administrator
HOI—Headquarters Operating Instruction
HQ—Headquarters
HWCI—Hardware CI
IP—Internet Protocol
IPS—Intrusion Protection System
ITAMS—Integrated Technology Asset Management System
JWICS—Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications Systems
LAN—Local Area Network
MAC—Media Access Control
MIL STD—Military Standard
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MSC—Mission Support Center
NCC—Network Control Center
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
NIC—Network Interface Card
OA—Operations Analysis
PIM—Port Interface Module
S&S—Support and Services
SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information
SCIF—SCI Facility
SCR—System Change Request
16                                                   AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010


SDO—Systems Duty Officer
SLA—Service Level Agreement
SSAA—System Security Authorization Agreement
TIM—Technical Interchange Meeting
UTP—Unshielded Twisted Pair
VLAN—Virtual Local Area Network
WAN—Wide Area Network
WBOX—Wall Box
WCC—Wall-mountable Connector Center
WIMM—Weekly Implementation and Maintenance Meeting
AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010                                                                         17


                                        Attachment 2
                                   CHANGE APPROVAL

A2.1. Introduction. This attachment summarizes ACN business rules for change approval.
These rules are embedded in and documented by help desk software and regulate the CM work
flow described in AFWAMAN 33-2.
A2.2. Priority Approval. All ACN work orders are initially categorized based on their
operational impact and their impact on ACN configuration. These parameters determine the
approval a work order requires. This summary is not directly applicable to underlying
documentation such as SCRs and Connectivity Requests but assumes such documentation has
been approved by the appropriate agency.
   A2.2.1. Rank-Order List. The MSC Chief develops a rank order for execution of approved
   work orders, and the WIMM may review and adjudicate that ordering. That ordering process
   considers but is not a direct function of the approval process. Approved rank-order lists are
   incorporated in the proceedings of the associated TIM or WIMM.
   A2.2.2. Priority Approval Authorities. The following positions are authorized to approve
   the designation of an ACN work order as mission critical within the constraints identified in
   AFWAMAN 33-2:
       A2.2.2.1. 2 SYOS/DO.
       A2.2.2.2. 2 SYOS/SYO.
       A2.2.2.3. SYOO.
   A2.2.2.4. MSC Chief.

Table A2.1. Approval Requirements for ACN Work Orders.
 Work Order            Routine                               All Others
 Type/Urgency
 Corrective            1. Requires no approval for           1. Require approval for priority.
                       priority.                             2. May require approval for cost.
                       2. May require approval for cost.
 Adaptive              1. Requires no approval for           1. Requires approval for priority.
                       priority.                             2. Requires approval for change.
                       2. Requires approval for change.      Change approval authority
                       Change approval authority depends     depends on cost and change
                       on cost and duration of change        duration.

A2.3. Change Approval. Change approval authority is a function of the magnitude and impact
of a change as measured by the duration and life cycle cost of that change. Change approval
requires prior approval for priority and prior approval of associated documents such as an SCR.
18                                                                AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010


     A2.3.1. The MSC Chief may delegate change approval authority with approval of the
     WIMM Chairperson. The SDO may not delegate SDO change approval authority. Such
     delegation will be managed as a deviation and tracked through a work order.
     A2.3.2. The WIMM retains final authority for ACN changes but delegates this authority as
     appropriate to support AFWA operational tempo while ensuring adequate CM. The WIMM
     and ACN TIM chairpersons coordinate closely to ensure appropriate review for ACN
     changes while pushing approval authority to the lowest level consistent with maintaining the
     AFWA automation architecture. AFWAMANs 33-1 and 33-2 delineate WIMM guidelines to
     permit decision-making at the lowest possible levels consistent with architectural stability.
     The WIMM may designate additional ACN change approval authorities on an interim basis.
     Such delegation is documented in advance and may not be incorporated into help desk
     business rules unless the designation is for an extended period of time. In this case, it will be
     managed as a waiver. In either case, it is managed as a work order.

Table A2.2. Approval Authority for ACN Work Orders.
AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010                                                                           19


                                          Attachment 3
                    ACN INFRASTRUCTURE MARKING STANDARD

A3.1. Purpose. This attachment defines ACN infrastructure labeling standards for all ACN
installations. ACN infrastructure, for purposes of this attachment, includes all ACN fiber optic
and UTP cable, fiber channel, innerduct, racks, and cable terminations (e.g., connectors, fiber
distribution centers/light panels, patch panels, and wall boxes). These standards apply to all
communications components and installations incorporated into ACN. Legacy systems are
retrofitted accordingly.
A3.2. Background. This standard defines a numbering system which identifies both
components and connectivity. Cable numbers (i.e., backbone, fiber optic cables) are
incorporated into appropriate baseline drawings as are labels for major patch panels and
equipment racks. ACN backbone cables are all fiber optic bundles and—except for associated
patch cables—run through innerduct which is also labeled. Premise wiring may be UTP or fiber.
Patch panels are color coded as to the trust and/or level of security associated with the cables
terminated in each panel—classified, trusted, and untrusted/DMZ. Patch cables are not labeled.
S&S ensures all infrastructure components are labeled in accordance with this attachment, and
MSC technicians periodically audit ACN infrastructure installations to ensure proper labels
remain in place.
A3.3. Cable Labeling. The ACN labeling standards ensure a unique label for each cable.
Classified ACN networks will employ unique connector types, device and cable colors, and rack
configurations to preclude mixed classification data flows.
   A3.3.1. Label Elements. The ACN fiber optic cable label consists of three distinct parts: an
   assigned cable number and two end designations. UTP cable labels use only parts 2 and 3 of
   the label system (i.e., the end designators).
       A3.3.1.1. Part 1. The first line of the label is applicable only to fiber optic cables. This
       line is a number assigned to each fiber optic cable or strand. For ACN, cables are
       numbered: “ACN” with a suffix of “M” for multi-mode, “S” for single mode, and “H” for
       hybrid cables containing both multi and single mode fibers.
       A3.3.1.2. Part 2. The second line of the label provides information about the left end of
       the cable (determined by reading the label upright with the lines of the label applied to
       the cable parallel to the strand runs). The line starts with a dash (or left arrow if the cable
       labeling machine permits) followed by the location and information about the
       termination. This information includes the assigned unit, rack, or cabinet number, if any,
       the equipment identifier, and the connection point as appropriate. The information is
       delineated by commas and wraps to the next line if necessary.
       A3.3.1.3. Part 3. Line 3 is similar to line 2 except it designates the right cable end. It
       begins on the next line of the label and ends in a dash (as if it points to the right end of
       the cable).
       A3.3.1.4. For multi-strand cables separated inside a box and connecting to a patch panel,
       only the box designation and sub-module (or connection points, if any) are shown. The
       AT&T color code is used to identify the order of connections and is not shown on the
20                                                             AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010


        label. If the box is within a rack, cabinet, or unit, the proper designation appears before
        the box identifier.
        A3.3.1.5. An ACN fiber optic cable label would be constructed as shown in Figure A3.1.
            A3.3.1.5.1. Part 1: This is an ACN, multi-mode fiber optic cable numbered 103.
            A3.3.1.5.2. Part 2: The dash shows the end to the reader’s left will be described on
            this line. It shows the end is in Room 10-6, connects to Wall Mountable Connector
            Center (WCC) number 01, and connects to 24 connectors, numbered 1 through 24,
            within the WCC. The blue fiber connects to location 1, and the aqua with stripe
            connects to location 24 per the AT&T color scheme.
            A3.3.1.5.3. Part 3: The other end of the cable goes to Room L30, cabinet number 2,
            and Fiber Distribution Center (FDC) number 3. The FDC may contain up to 12
            Connection Panels (CP) with 6 or 8 connections each. This cable connects to panels
            7 through 10, with the blue fiber connecting to location 1 of CP 7, etc.

Figure A3.1. Sample Fiber Optic Cable Label.
Part 1 ACN/M 103
Part 2 -10-6,WCC01,C1-24
Part 3 L30,Cab2,FDC03
          CP7-10-

        A3.3.1.6. An ACN UTP cable label is constructed as shown in Figure The second line of
        the UTP cable label is similar to line 3 of the fiber optic label.

Figure A3.2. Sample UTP Cable Label.
Part 1 -6-6, UTP Patch 3, C5
Part 2 WBOX 9-18/1,C4-

     A3.3.2. Label Placement. Full, or three part, labels are placed at each end of ACN fiber
     optic cables. This tells the maintainer how to reconnect the cable should it be disconnected
     for repair work and identifies the end points for troubleshooting purposes. Labels containing
     only part 1 are placed every 3 feet of exposed cable (not in innerduct) and at each junction
     box. Using only the cable number during the cable run makes label management easier since
     only the end labels will need to be re-accomplished should the cable be moved to another
     piece of equipment or patch panel. Box and connection designations used in this example are
     for Siecor type equipment. For other types of equipment, box and connection designations
     are commensurate with the manufacturer’s identification scheme. Each box, rack, cabinet,
     etc. is also labeled.
     A3.3.3. Classified Network Management. Single and multi-mode fiber will be used for all
     new installations in ACN classified support. Legacy copper installations will be retained
     under explicit WIMM waivers but will be replaced when upgraded. Whenever used, media
     converters will be installed in the racks. Whenever possible, equipment and patch panel
     racks will contain only one classification level. They will be configured within wiring
AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010                                                                        21


   closets to preclude inadvertent cross patching of different classification levels. To this end,
   standards follow for connector types and cable colors to be employed inside and outside the
   SCIF.

Table A3.1. Classified Connector Standards.

Table A3.2. Classified Patch Cable Color Standards.
Classification           Stripe   Connectors
Secret                   Red      MT-RJ
SCI                      Yellow SC
Admin (Unclassified) Green        ST
JWICS                    Black    SC

A3.4. Innerduct Labeling. Innerduct is a protective sheath which may contain numerous fiber
optic cables and simplifies pulling additional cables after the initial installation. ACN uses only
plenum type innerduct to protect the environment from hazardous fumes in case of an overheat
condition. The labeling scheme is similar to that for cables. The term ACN Innerduct Run
(ACNIR) will be used for all innerduct runs associated with ACN. Full, 3-part labels will be
placed at the ends of each innerduct. Labels with part one only will be placed every 10 feet
along the run. If the run terminates in a unit or cabinet, the unit/cabinet designation will be
included. Figure A3.3. provides an example of an innerduct label.

Figure A3.3. Sample Innerduct Label.
A3.5. Connection Labeling. ACN fiber optic termination box connections are numbered in a
consistent manner. Termination panels and boxes are also color coded to reflect the
classification and level of trust of the connections in that panel.
   A3.5.1. Connection Numbering. Connections (designated as “C”) are either preloaded in the
   respective box or come in CPs. In all cases, the numbering scheme is in the order from Top,
   Left, Back to Bottom, Right, Front.
   A3.5.2. Connection Panel Color Code. All CPs, FDCs, WCCs, and wall plates terminating
   ACN cables are color coded to reflect the classification and trust of the connections
   terminated in that component.
         A3.5.2.1. Classified terminations—including patch cables associated with classified
         cables—are red.
         A3.5.2.2. Panels or boxes terminating cables connecting to or located in the DMZ or
         untrusted portions of the ACN are yellow.
         A3.5.2.3. Trusted connections terminate in buff or natural colored panels and boxes.
   A3.5.3. WCC Example. The typical ACN WCC has 48 connections, preloaded as 8 sets of 6
   connections. Connections from 1 through 48 are as follows: Top Left Back to Bottom Left
   Back (connections 1 through 12); Top Left Front to Bottom Left Front (connections 13
   through 24); Top Right Back to Bottom Right Back (connections 25 through 36), and Top
22                                                              AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010


     Right Front to Bottom Right Front (connections 37 through 48). If a row of 12 connections
     can be made, even by spanning several CPs, it will be done to be consistent with the industry.
     A3.5.4. FDC Example. For FDCs with 12 CPs, each with 6 connections, the numbering is
     from Top Left (number 1) and Bottom Right (number 72). A special case exists for ACN in
     that several FDCs have 8 CPs. In this case, connections 7 and 8 of each CP are ignored in
     assigning colored fiber to ports. The red fiber (number 7 on the AT&T color code), for
     example, is connected to the top connection of the next CP instead of the 7th connection.
     This scheme will maintain consistency within ACN. The two extra connections will be
     considered expansion.
     A3.5.5. UTP Example. UTP outlet boxes (wall boxes designated WBOX) in each office or
     room contain a varied number of connections.
        A3.5.5.1. The boxes are numbered from 1 to n as the room is circumnavigated in a
        counter-clockwise manner beginning at the main door to the room. This consecutive
        number is prefixed with the room number. WBOX 9-18/1, for example, is the first UTP
        box to the right of the primary door to Room 9-18.
        A3.5.5.2. Normally, connections within the box are numbered on the box faceplate.
        Connections are numbered beginning with the top left connection and moving to the top
        right. The count continues beginning at the left side of the second row and continues in a
        similar fashion. Left, right, and top are with respect to a viewer facing the box front
        plate.
     A3.5.6. End Node Identification. ACN premise wiring is marked to identify the end user
     nodes terminated in each connection on the panel (CPs, WCCs, and FDCs). Premise wiring
     extends from an outlet or WBOX in each room to termination panels in an ACN wiring
     closet. Each port on a premise termination panel in a wiring closet is labeled with either the
     name of the end node connection (e.g., WBOX 9-18/1) or the actual end user platform (e.g.,
     OA6-198), depending on what is hard-wired into the panel. This is critical to ensure ready
     identification of end users connected to the ACN subnet in question and expedite
     troubleshooting and network realignment. Labels are attached to the front of each panel or
     may be attached to the rack or cabinet and reference ports on the panel via port number. In
     either arrangement, labeling is applied to be readily accessible to technicians working with
     jumpers and mounted electronics.
A3.6. AT&T Color Code. In multi-strand, fiber optic cables, each strand has a unique color.
To be consistent, the standard AT&T color code provided in Table A3.3. is used. The fibers, if
grouped, will be annotated by some other marking such as a stripe, band, or spiral. The total
color code will be the primary color as depicted in Table A3.3., followed by the sub-code
annotated by the group, band, etc. For example, a green fiber with a stripe would be number 15
in the color code scheme.

Table A3.4. ACN Basic Fiber Optic Cable Strand Color Code.
Strand Color       Strand Color           Strand Color
1         Blue     5        Slate (gray) 9         Yellow
2         Orange 6          White         10       Violet
AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010                                                                     23


3       Green     7       Red           11       Rose
4       Brown     8       Black         12       Aqua

A3.7. Acceptable Label Terms for ACN. Table A3.4. specifies terminology unique to ACN
cable, innerduct, and connection/termination labeling. These are not handled as normal
acronyms, although some are also acronyms, but are here considered part of the label definition.

Table A3.5. ACN Labeling Terminology.
Code   Meaning
C      Connection (socket for either single mode or multi-mode, SC or ST type connectors)

CP     Connection Panel (building block containing either 6 or 8 connections--used in FDCs
       etc.)
FDC    Fiber Distribution Center (incorporates one or more CPs)
FI     Fastiron
HUB    Fiber Optic or UTP Hub
IR     Innerduct Run
PIC    Premises Interconnect Center
SC     Type of connector normally used for single mode fiber
SS     Smart Switch
ST     Type of connector normally used for multi- mode fiber
WDC Wall-Mountable Distribution Center (used in Room L30 for gridding)
WCC Wall-Mountable Connection Center
24                                                             AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010


                                          Attachment 4
                        NETWORK DEVICE NAMING STANDARD

A4.1. Purpose. This document specifies the standard for identifying and labeling ACN devices
in the firewall, management servers, networking elements, and network management suite
component CIs. This includes switches, routers, hubs, computers, and certain subassemblies of
such devices. Names and barcodes provide unique identification for each device. All devices
except expendables are bar-coded, and primary devices are also name labeled. ACN labels will
not obliterate or cause removal of manufacturers’ labels, serial numbers, etc.
A4.2. Background. A standard naming process is essential to ensure ready, unique
identification of ACN devices, simplify correlation with work orders, and track performance and
maintenance history. A two-part name provides a unique, human-friendly identifier, and a
barcode simplifies database identification and correlation of ACN devices. S&S CM personnel
produce and apply barcodes and name labels and enter the information for each device in the
asset database on initial receipt of the device. S&S updates the database as necessary when
devices are realigned. The MSC Chief proposes new names as required, and the WIMM
adjudicates such changes to ACN naming conventions. Additionally, common names unrelated
to the type/location of the device may be employed for key network components to simplify
references and provide added network security. Such names will be employed with explicit
MSC Chief approval for each instance and are subject to WIMM review.
A4.3. Network Device Names and Labels. Network device names are assigned by S&S in
accordance with naming conventions established by the WIMM and documented in AFWAMAN
33-2 and the asset management software. All ACN devices are assigned and marked with
unique, Air Force Equipment Management System/Integrated Technology Asset Management
System (AFEMS/ITAMS) barcodes for tracking on work orders and in the asset database. ACN-
unique barcodes may be employed as directed by the MSC Chief but will be managed in a
consistent manner compatible with the asset database. Primary devices (e.g., a switch or router
chassis) may contain one or more subassemblies (e.g., boards or power supplies). Primary
devices are labeled with their ACN name in addition to the barcode(s). Subassemblies do not
generally require name labels. Expendable devices (e.g., a port interface module (PIM)) are
neither labeled nor barcoded and are not recorded in the asset database.
     A4.3.1. Name Assignment. The WIMM defines ACN device names. Device names (and
     barcodes) remain associated with specific pieces of hardware regardless of where in the ACN
     that hardware is located. Device names are not reused when a specific device is removed
     from the ACN inventory. S&S records model numbers, part numbers, and similar
     information associated with each ACN device in the asset database, but this information is
     not generally repeated on name labels. The S&S Logistician updates the database as required
     to reflect asset alignment.
        A4.3.1.1. Device names consist of two elements, a primary and a secondary name.
            A4.3.1.1.1. The primary name is a defined sequence of alpha-numeric characters
            providing generic identification of the device and often related to the manufacturer’s
            nomenclature for the device. It is not the same as the device model number.
AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010                                                                     25


          A4.3.1.1.2. The secondary name is a three-digit sequential number applied by the
          data base incrementally to newly entered devices. On name labels, it is separated
          from the primary name by a hyphen and is filled, as needed, to 3 digits using leading
          zeros.
      A4.3.1.2. Primary names for primary devices are identified as needed by the MSC Chief
      and adjudicated by the WIMM.
   A4.3.2. Label Placement. ACN S&S Logistician constructs and applies ACN name labels
   and barcodes in accordance with AFWAMAN 33-2 and as directed by the MSC Chief. ACN
   technicians, in conjunction with S&S, confirm and document labeling and correct entry of
   the information into the asset database. Labels are placed on each device so as to be readily
   visible from the front and rear of devices mounted in equipment racks. Devices not visible
   from outside a chassis may be marked in only one location. Labels are placed so as not to
   obscure any manufacturer or operational information marked on the device or interface with
   normal device operation or its insertion or removal. This action is coordinated with the
   AFWA Equipment Custodian (EC) for AIMS entry.
A4.4. Manufacturer Labels. ACN labels neither replace nor obliterate manufacturer labels.
Manufacturer labels are not removed.
26                                                            AFWAMAN33-2 8 APRIL 2010


                                         Attachment 5
                   ACCESS CONTROL LIST MANAGEMENT PROCESS

A5.1. Purpose. This attachment prescribes the process for managing the configuration of ACN
Access Control Lists (ACL). ACLs define ACN business rules for routing traffic and limiting
access to the trusted portion of the ACN. The process supports ACN management and is more
tightly controlled than the overall ACN change process to limit access to potentially sensitive
information.
A5.2. Routine Changes. Routine ACL changes are submitted to the MSC by the SDO/GDO
for approval with the actual changes implemented on the next Wednesday following the date of
ticket submission. MSC technicians complete the implementation plan in Microsoft Word
format and incorporate the plan in ACN CM databases. MSC personnel make all routine ACL
changes.
A5.3. Emergency Changes. Emergency ACL changes may be made by both MSC and S&S
personnel. The 2 SYOS/DO or SYO Chief may grant emergency approval on an interim basis
pending WIMM review. Interim approval for emergency changes is documented at the earliest
possible time following change and presented at the next scheduled WIMM for final
adjudication. MSC technicians ensure proper documentation of these actions.
A5.4. Documentation. MSC technicians maintain all ACL change documentation on the
SysLogServer and Ironview systems. The documentation is in the following format:
     A5.4.1. Change Number: ACL-### (where ### is the sequential change number assigned by
     the MSC).
     A5.4.2. Implementation Date: Date MSC or S&S actually enters the ACL change on an
     ACN device; formatted as ddmmmyyyy (where dd is the numeric day; mmm is the shortened
     alphabetic month, and yyyy is the 4-digit year).
     A5.4.3. High-level Description: A brief, alpha-numeric statement of the change (e.g.,
     Implement AFCERT99-001, Delete ACL-001, Modify Port fi0/0).
     A5.4.4. POC: Name of the individual actually making the change to the ACL.
     A5.4.5. Detailed Description: Specify the design impact of the change and the actual script
     for the change.
     A5.4.6. Interim Approval Authority: Name of the approving authority.
     A5.4.7. Interim Approval Date: Date of interim approval in same format as implementation
     date.
     A5.4.8. Final Approval Date: Date of WIMM approval in same format as implementation
     date.
     A5.4.9. Documentation.    MSC technicians maintain an electronic record of the ACL
     configuration.
