BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY
AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY                                                INSTRUCTION 33-7

                                                                             24 OCTOBER 2013

                                                               Communications and Information

                                                           AUTOMATED HARDWARE AND
                                                        SOFTWARE SYSTEM MONITORING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 2 SYOS/SYO                                                         Certified by: 2 WXG/CC
                                                                           (Col David E. Bacot)
                                                                                         Pages: 5
Supersedes:    AFWAI 33-7,
               1 October 2008


This Instruction establishes responsibilities, policies, and procedures for the management of
hardware, software, infrastructure connectivity, and administrative resources using the Enterprise
Management (EM) Environment. Tivoli Enterprise Management System (TEMS) is the Air
Force Weather Agency’s (AFWA) primary EM system for management, monitoring, and trouble
detection on all network, computer hardware and software systems. This instruction applies to
all personnel involved in resource acquisition, hardware configuration, software development,
and system administration of HQ AFWA and 2d Weather Group (2 WXG) resources. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Web RIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route the AF Forms 847 from the field to the appropriate functional chain
of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been revised to update office symbols.
 2                                                             AFWAI33-7 24 OCTOBER 2013


1. General.
     1.1. AFWA EM utilizes commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) products to provide a framework
     that enables automated system, software and data error alerts to be displayed for 2d Systems
     Operations Squadron (2 SYOS) 24 x 7 personnel in the AFWA Single Point of Operations
     and Control (ASPOC).
     1.2. The Tivoli Framework provides an automated method to remotely administer and
     monitor network components and computer systems from a single point. This includes
     hardware status and the state of software applications running on the monitored system.
     Computer systems within the HQ AFWA and 2 WXG enterprise will use automated alerts
     through Tivoli to the fullest extent and not establish locally developed solutions or purchase
     other off-the-shelf enterprise monitoring tools.
     1.3. Tivoli allows escalating levels of monitoring, control, and administration. Monitoring
     levels are determined by the System Administrator (SA) when systems are initially installed,
     but may be changed by submitting a Remedy ticket to the 2 SYOS/SYO EM work center.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. 2d Weather Group (2 WXG).
        2.1.1. 2d Systems Operations Squadron (2 SYOS). Act as the center of expertise for
        enterprise management planning, deployment, implementation, and administration of
        Tivoli. Provide a single point of control for operations, maintenance, and responses to
        alerts.
        2.1.2. Operations Flight (2 SYOS/SYO). Assist all SAs, programmers, and contract
        personnel with Tivoli requirements and provide solutions, troubleshooting, and
        maintenance to meet EM requirements. SYO EM administrators will operate and
        maintain all software and hardware infrastructure that support the Tivoli environments at
        all classification levels.
        2.1.3. System Duty Officer (SDO). In accordance with Attachment 2, provide 24 x 7
        monitoring of Tivoli events and ensure actions are taken or notifications are made to
        appropriate POCs and AFWA Operations Center when alerts occur.
        2.1.4. Ensure new capabilities developed within the current architecture and
        infrastructure provide necessary monitoring level requirements for management by Tivoli
        (Attachment 2).
     2.2. Strategic Plans, Requirements, and Programs Directorate (HQ AFWA/A5/8) and
     Communications and Information Directorate (HQ AFWA/A6).
        2.2.1. Ensure all new system planning, configurations, and acquisitions employ Tivoli
        Enterprise Management software where possible. In order to promote interoperability
        and minimize the total cost of ownership, all new or reengineered systems shall be based
        on one of the core operating systems supported by Tivoli. Currently, these operating
        systems are IBM AIX, HP Unix, Sun Solaris, Microsoft Windows, and Linux.
        2.2.2. Ensure newly developed systems and software are designed to meet monitoring
        level requirements for management by Tivoli (Attachment 2). In coordination with 2
AFWAI33-7 24 OCTOBER 2013                                                                       3


      SYOS/SYO EM, ensure Tivoli is integrated at both system and application levels on all
      infrastructure devices.
   2.3. All System Administrators (to include contractors). Ensure Tivoli monitors are
   configured for key system health indicators. Implement Tivoli agents on all critical partitions
   of their server to watch for warning and critical file disk usage. Ensure all Tivoli alert text
   comments are kept up to date with changes in the systems and organization. System
   administrators will submit Remedy tickets to the SYO EM work center for new or changing
   requirements.
   2.4. All Software Developers (to include contractors). Ensure newly developed and existing
   software meet coding requirements for management by Tivoli Distributed Monitoring and
   Enterprise Console. Utilize Tivoli development channels to log and monitor events when
   testing software to ensure test events are not mingled with production events. Ensure all
   Tivoli alert text comments are kept up to date with changes in the systems and organization.
   2.5. All development and testing will be done on the development systems then moved to
   production systems when approved.

3. Procedures.
   3.1. Planning. All system planning activities and documentation will address how the
   systems will be incorporated into the AFWA EM environment and propose a monitoring
   level (Attachment 2).        System administrators and/or application programmers, in
   coordination with 2 SYOS/SYO EM technicians, will establish monitoring levels for systems
   using the criteria in Attachment 2.
   3.2. Deployment. The 2 SYOS/SYO EM work center will deploy Tivoli software and
   provide assistance to system administrators, programmers, and contract personnel in all
   activities.
   3.3. Backup. The System Administrators will conduct a full back up of Tivoli
   configurations in all security enclaves on a monthly basis.
   3.4. Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP).              The SNMP agent software
   continuously monitors its device for error conditions defined in the installed Management
   Information Base (MIB). When an error condition is detected, a trap message is
   automatically forwarded to all devices listed in the agent’s trap-forwarding list. When
   configuring the SNMP agent on each network device, configure the agent’s trap forwarding
   list or trap destination list to include the network management servers host name or IP
   address. The SNMP agent on all network devices will also be setup to respond to GET and
   SET commands from the network management server for critical error condition and
   performance monitoring. The SNMP agent community names / strings will be provided
   along with a current copy of the agent’s MIB file.




                                            LOUIS V. ZUCCARELLO, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 4                                                        AFWAI33-7 24 OCTOBER 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
2 SYOS—2d Systems Operations Squadron
2 WXG—2d Weather Group
AFWA—Air Force Weather Agency
EM—Enterprise Management
HQ AFWA—Headquarters Air Force Weather Agency
HQ AFWA/A5/8—Strategic Plans, Requirements, and Programs Directorate
HQ AFWA/A6—Communications and Information Directorate
MIB—Management Information Base
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SA—System Administrator
SDO—System Duty Officer
SNMP—Simple Network Management Protocol
SYO—Operations Flight

Terms
Distributed Monitoring—A Tivoli application meant to enable monitoring of networked
resources, such as hosts, applications, and processes.
Tivoli Enterprise Console—A Tivoli application that acts as a central display for all system
messages and notifications.
AFWAI33-7 24 OCTOBER 2013                                                                     5


                                        Attachment 2
                        TIVOLI EM MONITORING LEVELS 1-3

                                           LEVEL 2                        LEVEL 3
           LEVEL 1
                                   DEV/ADMIN (Monitored             NON-Air Force Weather
        PRODUCTION
                                   by user via the Tivoli web          Production, Dev
  (24 x 7 monitoring by SDO)
                                             page)                        or Admin
                                                                       (No monitoring)
 System Health Monitoring        Host Up & Down (Ping)            NONE
 Heartbeat                       Disk space Used/Free
 Host Up & Down (Ping)           Critical Directory Monitor
 Disk Space Used/Free            Hardware Inventory
 Input/Output Packets            Software Inventory
 Application Status              Log file Monitoring
 Critical Directory Monitor      TEC Events
 Hardware Inventory
 Software Inventory
 Log file Monitoring
 Tivoli Enterprise Console
 (TEC) Events
 User Administration
 Automated Events
 Specialized Scripts
 Specialized Monitoring
 All Remaining Monitors
                               Tivoli Severity/Notification Times
    Severity Levels                Description                    POC Notification Times
 Critical                 Severe mission impact (no       Immediate, unless prior instructions has
                          work around)                    been provided to the SDO
 Warning                  Caution (possible mission       None; SDO will use this information
                          impact if left unattended)      for situational awareness to monitor
                                                          mission impact if conditions persist
 Harmless                 Informational (application      None; POC may use the Tivoli
                          starts and finishes)            webpage to monitor application events
