BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY
AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY                                              INSTRUCTION 33-5

                                                                             5 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                              Communications and Information

                                                            COLLABORATIVE FRAMEWORK

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFWA/A6W                                                           Certified by: AFWA/A6
       (Knowledge Operations Management)                            (GS-15 Bradley V. Kassube)
                                                                                       Pages: 10
Supersedes:    AFWAI33-5, 15 June 2007


This instruction defines responsibilities and procedures for administering and using the Air Force
Weather Agency (AFWA) Collaborative Framework and the entire hardware and software
infrastructure which is utilized for information storage and sharing. It applies to AFWA
members including all geographically separated unit (GSU) personnel as well as all external
users who have been granted permission to login, view, administer, or otherwise access these
tools. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance
with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by Air Force. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This operating instruction has been significantly changed and needs a complete review.
1. Introduction. The AFWA Collaborative Framework encompasses all hardware and software
used for information management and sharing throughout the entire agency. This instruction
provides a framework for the use of multiple tools together, while establishing separate rules of
engagement (ROE) for each. The Primary tools used within the agency are Microsoft
SharePoint, shared network drives, and Remedy. Each has unique capabilities the organization
exploits to maximize process automation. Other tools are used on a smaller scale within the
 2                                                             AFWAI33-5 5 FEBRUARY 2014


organization (i.e. Confluence, JIRA, Crucible), and may be included in later revisions of this
publication if their use expands to the entire FOA.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. The AFWA Commander is the information owner within the agency, and as such owns
     the framework for all information management and sharing.
     2.2. The AFWA Director of Staff (DS) is the focal point for all staff actions within AFWA,
     and is therefore responsible for establishing and enforcing overarching procedures for the
     collaborative framework.
     2.3. A6 is the Chief Information Officer (CIO). The CIO ensures technology needs are
     appropriately identified and advocated. The CIO implements and oversees Air Force
     Knowledge Operations policies, programs, resources, and procedures within the agency. For
     all Knowledge Management related issues, this responsibility is delegated to the A6W Chief
     of Knowledge Operations Management.
     2.4. 2 WXG provides infrastructure sustainment/operation for the collaborative tools.
     Responsibility is shared between 2SYOS/SYOE for hardware, software, and programming,
     and 2S YOS/SYOM for network sustainment.
     2.5. The Knowledge Management Working Group (KMWG) is focused on improving
     knowledge/information management practices throughout the agency by creating a lasting
     synergy and maximizing efficiency for everyone. The KMWG evaluates all current practices
     to determine if there are better ways of doing things, and creates new processes intended to
     automate and improve efficiency. The KMWG also seeks suggestions for initiatives that
     focus on technology improvements, coupled with standard, well-articulated, and lasting
     ROEs to ensure personnel are using information management practices properly.
     Membership consists of the AFWA DS and CIO (co-chairs), 2 SYOS/SYOE (technical
     subject matter expert) and one or two representatives, appointed in writing, from each 2 letter
     organization within the agency.
3. Collaboration Tools.
     3.1. Microsoft SharePoint.
        3.1.1. Microsoft SharePoint is the primary collaboration tool used throughout the agency
        for information management and sharing. It consists of a tree-structured architecture of
        web-pages designed to enable end-users maximum flexibility to control their own
        workspace.
        3.1.2. SharePoint Roles and Responsibilities.
            3.1.2.1. There are five categories of users within the SharePoint Environment:
            SharePoint Managers, SharePoint Administrators, Site Managers, Contributors, and
            Readers. SharePoint Managers are responsible for overarching policy governance and
            enforcement. SharePoint Administrators are responsible for overall application
            administration and operation to ensure system reliability and integrity. Site Managers
            are responsible for managing organizational and/or project level sites. Contributors
            may view and edit documents, announcements, and tasks on sites. Readers may only
            view documents, announcements, and tasks on sites.
AFWAI33-5 5 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                      3


       3.1.2.2. SharePoint Manager Responsibilities:
          3.1.2.2.1. Shall ensure sites are properly managed and meet all template
          standards.
          3.1.2.2.2. Shall maintain a list of all Site Managers, including date assigned,
          associated site(s), training date and date of last quarterly check. The list is kept in
          A6W, reviewed quarterly, and may be viewed upon request by a section Chief
          equivalent or higher.
          3.1.2.2.3. Shall perform quarterly site-checks. These checks include inspecting
          sites for users who no longer have a need to access that site, and inspection of
          sites for broken web links and old documents. These checks are documented and
          kept on file in A6W. If a site does not comply with the guidelines in this
          instruction, or the template referred in 3.1.2.2.1., the Site Manager will be notified
          and general access to the site may be removed until the Site Manager corrects the
          problems and returns the site to compliance. If removal of access becomes
          necessary, the 2 letter and the CIO will be notified as well.
       3.1.2.3. SharePoint Administrator Responsibilities:
          3.1.2.3.1. Shall grant user permissions for Site Managers, Contributors and
          Readers as necessary. May grant access up to and including administrative level
          rights.
       3.1.2.3.2. Shall develop a training curriculum for Site Managers, Contributors and
       Readers; shall ensure Site Manager and Contributor/Reader training classes are held
       regularly.
          3.1.2.3.3. Shall be responsible for creating the structure and design template for
          the top three levels of SharePoint organizational sites.
          3.1.2.3.4. Shall move or remove any sites to ensure the site hierarchy correctly
          reflects the AFWA Field Operating Agency (FOA) organizational structure.
          3.1.2.3.5. Shall remove any site when it is no longer necessary or no one has used
          the site in over 180 days.
          3.1.2.3.6. May restrict general access to a site if a Site Manager fails to perform
          their duties or an issue has risen about inappropriate or sensitive postings on that
          site. Access will be restricted until the issue is resolved.
          3.1.2.3.7. Shall ensure Site Manager Appointment letters and SharePoint site
          requests have been signed and filed prior to creation of any page and that only
          Site Managers are given administrative permissions.
          3.1.2.3.8. Shall maintain SharePoint availability metrics and measure against a
          standard of 95.5% uptime.
          3.1.2.3.9. Shall be responsible for installation, upgrade, and maintenance of
          SharePoint servers.
       3.1.2.4. Site Manager Responsibilities:
          3.1.2.4.1. All Site Manager responsibilities are delegated down to the 3 letter
4                                                       AFWAI33-5 5 FEBRUARY 2014


       level. Beneath that, the children sites may have an assigned Site Manager, but the
       ultimate responsibility over the parent site and all child sites rests with the 3 letter
       Site Manager. The duties listed in this section can be accomplished by lower
       level Site Managers, but they will report back to the 3 letter Site Manager for
       logging or reporting purposes.
       3.1.2.4.2. Shall be assigned by the 2-letter office or authorized personnel by
       submitting an appointment letter in either hard or soft copy to be kept on file in
       A6W. Appointment letters are resubmitted anytime a change occurs.
       3.1.2.4.3. Shall attend the first available training after being appointed.
       Documentation of this training will be sent to the SharePoint Administrator and
       kept on file in A6W. Once training has been accomplished the Site Manager will
       receive site permissions.
       3.1.2.4.4. Shall check their site(s) and any sub-site(s) at a minimum of once every
       quarter for currency of information, proper permissions, accuracy of links, and
       professional content. Quarterly checks are documented on the site within the Site
       Managers Work-Log.
       3.1.2.4.5. Shall only grant access to users with a need to view or edit information
       contained on a site. May grant contributor or reader access as applicable to sites
       they manage. Must ensure non-AFWA users with .af.mil accounts have been
       approved for account creation before granting access.
       3.1.2.4.6. Shall provide initial training to contributors prior to granting
       contributor level access.
       3.1.2.4.7. Shall ensure external users with permissions to their site have a valid
       need to maintain access. They must perform a review of their user list every 90
       days.
       3.1.2.4.8. Shall ensure a replacement is assigned in writing no less than 30-days
       prior to relinquishing responsibility of a site. If a replacement is not appointed
       and the current Site Manager relinquishes responsibility, that responsibility will
       default to the individual who appointed the current Site Manager.
    3.1.2.5. Contributor level responsibilities:
       3.1.2.5.1. Shall receive initial training from site managers on proper
       procedures/process to add, delete and edit data contained on SharePoint.
       3.1.2.5.2. Shall ensure that all additions to a SharePoint site are valid additions.
       3.1.2.5.3. Shall advise the Site Manager of any inappropriate postings or
       information on a SharePoint site.
       3.1.2.5.4. Shall notify appropriate Site Manager before making a significant
       change that will affect usability of the site (i.e., moving data).
    3.1.2.6. Reader level responsibilities:
       3.1.2.6.1. Shall advise the Site Manager of any inappropriate postings or
       information on a SharePoint site. Users finding any technical problems or broken
AFWAI33-5 5 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                      5


            links will advise the Site Manager for that site or SharePoint Administrator if the
            issue involves the overall SharePoint system or home page.
     3.1.3. Security.
        3.1.3.1. All users must act to ensure the security of data on a SharePoint Site; this
        includes not posting classified information.
        3.1.3.2. Access is controlled by SharePoint Administrators and Site Managers to
        ensure only those with a need to access data are given permissions to relevant sites
        and folders.
        3.1.3.3. Site Managers must ensure all content uploaded to their site is in compliance
        with the Privacy Act of 1974 and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-332, The Air Force
        Privacy and Civil Liberties Program. Any site containing Privacy Act information
        must be properly labeled and secured.
        3.1.3.4. SharePoint Administrators and Site Managers must ensure all Department of
        Defense (DoD) and AF requirements for safeguarding information are met, including
        (but not limited to) For Official Use Only (FOUO) information, DoD contractor
        proprietary information, AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical
        Information and information exempt under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
        in accordance with DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, DoD Directive
        5400.7.
        3.1.3.5. When posting and/or routing a document containing Privacy Act
        information, the document must contain FOUO in the title, and the following
        statement should appear as the first line of the document: “This document contains
        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY (FOUO) information which must be protected under
        the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C S552a, and AFI 33-332.” When routing documents,
        with personal information, ensure the following: there is an official need, all users are
        authorized to receive it under the Privacy Act, and it is protected from unauthorized
        disclosure.
        3.1.3.6. Violations to security guidelines will result in immediate termination of user
        access.
     3.1.4. SharePoint Site design.
        3.1.4.1. SharePoint consists of a hierarchy of sites that mirror the AFWA
        organizational structure. A main page will exist and be maintained by the SharePoint
        Administrators to display the directory of sites and be a gateway into the AFWA
        SharePoint Environment.
        3.1.4.2. A standard site design format will be followed for all organizational sites
        down to the 3-letter level. Sites for a specific project may be modified from standard
        format as needed, but must follow all other guidelines in this instruction.
        3.1.4.3. To request a new SharePoint site, contact the Site manager for the parent site
        under which the page will be located.
     3.1.5. Maintenance.
6                                                          AFWAI33-5 5 FEBRUARY 2014


       3.1.5.1. The AFWA Remedy Team makes backups every 8 hours of the Microsoft
       (MS) Structured Query Language (SQL) database that holds SharePoint info. This
       backup includes user information and configuration, SharePoint sites and files stored
       on SharePoint. MS SQL logs are backed up every 2 hours.
       3.1.5.2. Recovery of lost or deleted files may be accomplished by having the Site
       Manager contact the SharePoint Administrator. The SharePoint Administrator will
       coordinate with the Remedy Team to recover the files. The Remedy Team will
       restore files upon request.
    3.1.6. Archiving sites.
       3.1.6.1. When a site is no longer needed, the Site Manager and Records Custodian
       will review a site to remove all official records and coordinate with the SharePoint
       Administrator for archiving. SharePoint is not an official records repository, and
       therefore cannot be used for archiving records. Any site can be archived if requested
       by the Site Manager and approved by the SharePoint Administrator.
    3.1.7. User account creation and deletion.
       3.1.7.1. Any AFWA Active Directory (AD) Organization Unit (OU) with permission
       from the Site Manager may be granted rights to a SharePoint site. All other Air Force
       users with a DoD Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) Certificate and a valid need to edit
       information on a site will be given an account accessible via their DoD PKI
       Certificate.
       3.1.7.2. Non-AFWA AF users can be granted temporary access when they are part of
       a collaboration effort or project requiring access. If a non-AFWA AF user requires
       access to a SharePoint site, they must contact the Site Manager to request access. The
       Site Manager will submit an online external user application to the SharePoint
       Administrator. If the external user requesting access does not have a valid DoD PKI
       certificate the request will be disapproved.
       3.1.7.3. A SharePoint Administrator will create a user account with certificate
       information in AD which will only allow access to the AFWA SharePoint server.
       3.1.7.4. The Site Manager will assign the appropriate access permissions to the user
       and will contact the user when their account is ready for use.
       3.1.7.5. Site Managers are responsible for ensuring external users with permissions to
       their site have a valid need to maintain access. They must perform a review of their
       user list every 90 days. If an external user has not accessed the site during this
       period, the user will be contacted and given 7 days’ notice to access the site. If the
       user still has not used the site after this notice, the account will be considered dormant
       and will be recommended for deletion. Note: account non-access due to extended
       temporary duty (TDY) or deployment will be excused until 90 days after the user
       returns.
       3.1.7.6. To recommend an account for deletion, the Site Manager should contact the
       AFWA Desktop Support Center to open a work ticket and start the deletion process.
       Before an administrator deletes an account, they should check to ensure the last
AFWAI33-5 5 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                       7


        access date was greater than 90 days, due to the fact a user may visit a site a particular
        Site Manager cannot track usage on.
        3.1.7.7. If an external user wishes to update their account or AD settings, they must
        contact the relevant Site Manager with updated information. The Site Manager will
        verify the information and pass it to the AFWA Desktop Support Center for update.
        3.1.7.8. Support for non-AFWA user accounts will be provided during normal duty
        hours by contacting the AFWA Desktop Support Center for resolution. If the issue is
        a system outage, the Systems Duty Officer (SDO) will be notified by Tivoli
        monitoring software and will take action to correct the issue.
        3.1.7.9. HQ AFWA users will automatically be removed from SharePoint access
        when they out-process AFWA and their Active Directory account is deleted. External
        users will contact the AFWA Desktop Support Center and request their account be
        deleted when it is no longer needed. All other users will be reviewed quarterly by the
        SharePoint Administrators.
     3.1.8. Operation.
        3.1.8.1. Site Managers provide the first level of support to users. They must ensure
        access permissions are correct, required data is present and current as directed in this
        instruction and provide assistance to users having problems on a site they manage.
        3.1.8.2. If a Site Manager cannot solve a user issue, a SharePoint Administrator
        should be contacted to troubleshoot the issue.
        3.1.8.3. Higher-level requirements, such as global changes affecting the entire
        collaborative framework or relate to the main pages or navigation should be
        coordinated through the KMWG representative of the office proposing the change.
  3.2. Shared Network Drives.
     3.2.1. The AFWA file server is a long term storage medium which utilizes the AFWA
     Enterprise Storage Solution (ESS) for storage space. The allocated space (currently
     5.5TB) is divided into two distinct drives, O and T, based on intended usage. The O and
     T drives are partitioned based on the hierarchy of the agency. Permissions and security
     policy are unique for each drive.
     3.2.2. O Drive.
        3.2.2.1. The O Drive is AFWA’s organizational drive. Each organization/sub-
        organization within AFWA will have a single folder on the drive unique to that
        section. 2 SYOS/SYOS will maintain the drive, to include folder creation and
        permission maintenance.
        3.2.2.2. Every member of a sub-organization will be granted read/write access only
        to that sub-organization’s folder (i.e. a member of A6W will only have access to the
        A6W folder, not the A6X folder).
        3.2.2.3. A separate shared folder is included and available to the entire sub-
        organization.
        3.2.2.4. Nobody will be granted access across organizations.
8                                                           AFWAI33-5 5 FEBRUARY 2014


              3.2.2.4.1. Certain folders requiring access across organizations, such as personnel
              security or folders dealing with Personally Identifiable Information (PII), will be
              created and managed on a case by case basis. The AFWA/DS will make
              decisions pertaining to these folders.
          3.2.2.5. The front office/command staff for each organization will have read and
          write access to all folders within their purview.
          3.2.2.6. There will be a separate “AFWA Shared” folder containing a sub-folder for
          each organization. Every FOA member will have read access to all content, but write
          access to only their organizations folder.
       3.2.3. T Drive.
          3.2.3.1. The T Drive is the agency’s Electronic File Plan. Access to these folders is
          strictly controlled by AFWA A6W (Agency Records Manager).
          3.2.3.2. All requests for access to these folders must be accomplished in writing and
          routed through A6W.
    3.3. Remedy.
       3.3.1. Application server and database used to replace manual systems with automated
       processes, rapidly develop and maintain management applications, and track critical
       business data.
       3.3.2. All AFWA Operations Trouble Tickets will be managed in Remedy.
       3.3.3. All AFWA Equipment Lifecycle Management processes will be managed in
       Remedy.
       3.3.4. Other collaborative efforts will utilize Remedy when scalable, reportable database
       access is required.
          3.3.4.1. These processes will be “front-ended” through the AFWA SharePoint site for
          general access, but will be housed within the Remedy hardware.
          3.3.4.2. These include, but are not limited to, the Weekly Implementation and
          Maintenance     Meeting/Maintenance    Implementation   Scheduling   Calendar
          (WIMM/MISC) and Ancillary Training System.
       3.3.5. The Remedy database and all related systems are maintained by 2SYOS/SYOE via
       a service contract.
          3.3.5.1. All requests for changes, modifications, updates, new implementations, or
          new capabilities that cross 2-letter organizations will be reviewed and approved via
          the KMWG.




                                            LOUIS V. ZUCCARELLO, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
AFWAI33-5 5 FEBRUARY 2014                                                        9


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 5 June 2013
AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information, 30 August 2002
DoD Directive 5400.7, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 2 January 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Active Directory
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFWA—Air Force Weather Agency
CIO—Chief Information Officer
DoD—Department of Defense
ESS—Enterprise Storage Solution
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FOUO—For Official Use Only
GPC—Government Purchase Card
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
IAW—In Accordance With
IT—Information Technology
KMWG—Knowledge Management Working Group
MISC—Maintenance Implementation Scheduling Calendar
MS—MicroSoft
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OU—Organization Unit
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
PKI—Public Key Infrastructure
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROE—Rules of Engagement
SDO—Systems Duty Officer
 10                                                  AFWAI33-5 5 FEBRUARY 2014


SQL—Structured Query Language
TDY—Temporary Duty
WIMM—Weekly Implementation and Maintenance Meeting
