BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY MANUAL
AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY                                                    33-1

                                                                                13 APRIL 2010
                                                           Certified Current 10 September 2013
                                                             Communications and Information

                                                CONSOLIDATED NETWORK OPERATIONS
                                                                        MANUAL

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 2 SYOS/SYOM                                                       Certified by: 2 WXG/CC
Supersedes: AFWAMAN33-1, 10 June                                      (Col John M. Egentowich)
            2003                                                                       Pages: 32


This manual establishes policies, procedures and responsibilities for operating Headquarters Air
Force Weather Agency (HQ AFWA) communications assets. All HQ AFWA internal data
communications assets and networks are operated as components of the AFWA Consolidated
Network (ACN) and this manual is applicable to HQ AFWA internal data communications. The
ACN provides internal data communications for HQ AFWA automation systems and links these
systems to external users and suppliers. The ACN is a data transport utility; it does not control
data content or format and provides no classification or declassification services. This manual
implements Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-223, Identification and Authentication; Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management; AFI 33-115V1, Network
Operations; and Air Force Weather Agency Manual (AFWAMAN) 33-2, AFWA Consolidated
Network (ACN) Configuration Management (CM) Plan. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.                  The reporting
requirements in this publication are exempt from licensing in accordance with AFI 33-324, The
Information Collections and Reports Management Program: Controlling Internal, Public and
Interagency Air Force Information Collections. Paragraph 2.11.5 applies. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This publication does not
apply to the Air National Guard or the Air Force Reserve Command.
2                                                                                      AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include Air Force Network Operations (AFNETOPs) policy changes, roles and
responsibilities as a result of the AFWA reorganization as well as changes to the AFWA
configuration management (CM) process.

       1.      ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES .....................................................................                        2
       2.      NETWORK OPERATIONS POLICY ..................................................................                            8
       3.      NETWORK OPERATIONS PROCEDURES .......................................................                                  12
       4.      TEST BED OPERATIONS ...................................................................................                17
       5.      TRAINING AND DOCUMENTATION ..............................................................                              19
       6.      PLANNING AND CONTINGENCY ....................................................................                          22
       7.      Prescribed Forms: ..................................................................................................   26
       8.      Adopted Forms: .....................................................................................................   26

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                        27

Attachment 2—ACN TECHNICAL INTERCHANGE MEETING (TIM)                                                                                  31


1. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
    1.1. Network Alignment. The AFWA Consolidated Network (ACN) is a data transport
    utility providing internal communications for HQ AFWA including United States
    Government and Coalition communications and provides the interface to all external, non-
    voice communications. The ACN consists of network appliances, switches, routers, hubs, all
    associated cabling and those components necessary for the secure, reliable and efficient
    transfer of data. All servers and operational assets are connected to and use the ACN devices
    to communicate to internal and external networks supporting AFWA operations worldwide.
    The ACN does not control data content or format and provides no classification or
    declassification services. The 2d System Operations Squadron (2 SYOS) commander
    operates the ACN using Department of Defense (DoD) and contracted personnel. The
    Director, Strategic Plans, Requirements, and Programs (A5/8) is responsible for contract
    management and resource acquisition.
       1.1.1. The ACN Test Environment is an additional component of the ACN. It is
       configured with isolated resources sufficient to emulate overall ACN capabilities. The
       ACN Test Environment is utilized to evaluate new technologies and changes to the
       network architecture without impact to the operational network. In the context of
       enterprise testing, it is approved as the core of a virtual, distributed enterprise test bed
       permitting individual system test beds to be interconnected as required for enterprise-
       wide tests. The permanent test bed hardware and software set includes at least one copy
       of each network component, or equivalent, and can be configured to mimic the ACN.
       The test bed also contains equipment required to simulate the loading of network
       components and systems and collect associated metrics.
AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010                                                                  3


  1.2. Staff Functions. The DoD component of the ACN management team is assigned to the
  Mission Support Center (MSC). Systems Engineering, Management, and Sustainment
  (SEMS) contractors provide the permanent contractor element of the ACN team. Other
  personnel may be involved with ACN on a temporary basis as new or legacy systems are
  integrated into ACN or whenever deemed necessary by the permanent ACN management
  team. AFWAMAN 33-2 defines CM procedures and responsibilities and are not repeated in
  detail here.
  1.3. Staff Responsibilities. The 2 SYOS Commander controls the ACN and delegates ACN
  operational authority to the MSC. The MSC is responsible for Network Operations, Network
  Security, and contractor support. ACN fiscal and contractual matters are handled by the
  ACN Project Manager (PM) assigned to the AFWA A-Staff.
     1.3.1. The ACN management team is comprised of the following personnel:
         1.3.1.1. Chief, Mission Support Center.
         1.3.1.2. Noncommissioned Officer In Charge (NCOIC), MSC.
         1.3.1.3. Network Operations Section.
         1.3.1.4. Systems Engineering, Management, and Sustainment (SEMS) contractors
     1.3.2. The Mission Support Center Chief is responsible for the following:
         1.3.2.1. Lead the ACN operations and management team.
         1.3.2.2. Direct ACN SEMS contractor activities and assess performance.
         1.3.2.3. Establish ACN policies and procedures.
         1.3.2.4. Assess and ensure compliance with operational policy and adjudicate
         network operating, maintenance, troubleshooting, and problem escalation procedures
         and policies.
         1.3.2.5. Direct the development of network troubleshooting guides.
         1.3.2.6. Direct and review periodic physical network audits.
         1.3.2.7. Identify and integrate AFWA communications requirements.
         1.3.2.8. Review and approve user communications requirements and possible
         solutions for adequacy and compliance with ACN architecture policy.
         1.3.2.9. Evaluate and plan connection of devices or networks to the ACN in concert
         with AFWAMAN 33-2 and the Information Assurance office (A6OS).
         1.3.2.10. Review and provide guidance for test bed operations and reports.
         1.3.2.11. Ensure ACN operational security.
         1.3.2.12. Review and direct any needed updates to the Network Infrastructure section
         of the AFWA Unclassified Production Enclave (AUPE), System Security
         Authorization Agreements (SSAA) and Configuration Change Requests (CCR) to
         ensure currency and adequacy.
         1.3.2.13. Establish and review compliance with policies for auditing, logging and
         tracking network activity.
4                                                         AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010


       1.3.2.14. Establish procedures for network performance monitoring and review
       network performance.
       1.3.2.15. Review ACN maintenance records and ensure satisfactory problem
       resolution and documentation.
       1.3.2.16. Develop and coordinate a prioritized list of critical system functions for use
       in network reconfiguration and service restoration.
       1.3.2.17. Develop plans for alternate communications and off-site storage of key
       configuration information to support service restoration.
       1.3.2.18. Provide technical guidance and requirements to the Strategic Plans,
       Requirements, and Programs Directorate (A5/8) and Communications and
       Information Directorate (A6) in coordinating communications policies and Service
       Level Agreements (SLA).
       1.3.2.19. Conduct periodic Technical Interchange Meetings (TIM) in accordance
       with attachment 2 of this AFWAMAN.
       1.3.2.20. Develop maintenance and implementation plans to include any needed
       testing, site preparation and expected impacts.
       1.3.2.21. Coordinate ACN security policies and classified network requirements with
       A6OS.
    1.3.3. The MSC NCOIC’s responsibilities include:
       1.3.3.1. Provide military guidance for enlisted personnel.
       1.3.3.2. Devise and monitor formal and on-the-job training (OJT) programs for MSC
       personnel.
       1.3.3.3. Consolidate SEMS contractor and MSC troubleshooting procedures in ACN
       troubleshooting guides.
       1.3.3.4. Draft and maintain OJT materials.
       1.3.3.5. Review assignments and performance of enlisted personnel assigned to the
       ACN and assist the MSC Chief in their training and evaluation.
    1.3.4. Network Operations Section is responsible for the following:
       1.3.4.1. Assess network performance and report on network capabilities.
       1.3.4.2. Identify performance variations; devise and direct corrective actions.
       1.3.4.3. Maintain Air Combat Command (ACC) standard naming conventions for
       ACN equipment.
       1.3.4.4. Consolidate system performance metrics into required reports, highlight
       variations, and identify causes and potential solutions to evolving problems.
       1.3.4.5. Maintain plan for assigning Internet Protocol (IP) addresses for all ACN and
       connecting systems consistent with network architecture and virtual local area
       network (VLAN) management.
AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010                                                                     5


        1.3.4.6. Maintain and configure management tools employed by ACN in compliance
        with AFWA policy and procedures.
        1.3.4.7. Analyze network capacity. Review known and anticipated communications
        requirements and advise the MSC Chief of expected network shortfalls.
        1.3.4.8. Ensure routine and annual audits of network configuration, maintenance, log,
        and performance records are being conducted and report on same to the MSC Chief.
        1.3.4.9. Develop and implement ACN security for both the unclassified and
        classified networks.
        1.3.4.10. Review and assess the security implications of all network changes
        including security accreditation materials for systems requesting network connectivity
        and advise the MSC Chief and A6OS regarding anticipated security impacts.
        1.3.4.11. Form and direct an ACN security response team when needed to investigate
        possible network security issues.
        1.3.4.12. Review Public Key Enabled (PKE) functionality, and the Enterprise
        Storage Solution (ESS) as well as any associated system activity logs and investigate
        all potential security issues relating to these and any new Enterprise systems.
        1.3.4.13. Review connectivity requests as part of the CCR process (e.g. interface
        tables) and validate all port, protocol and service connections to the ACN with
        appropriate DoD and Air Force (AF) documentation.
        1.3.4.14. Investigate undocumented connections to the ACN or between ACN users
        and other systems and recommend disposition to the MSC Chief.
        1.3.4.15. Perform the initial evaluation of vulnerabilities or incidents to include
        classified message incidents occurring at the user level; coordinate response activities
        between MSC staff and A6OS. Initiate corrective or protective measures and report
        according to AFI 33-138.
        1.3.4.16. Evaluate network performance in coordination with SEMS and recommend
        options for improving network performance and manageability.
        1.3.4.17. Manage ACN Domain Name Server (DNS) and router tables.
        1.3.4.18. Identify, acquire, and guide SEMS testing and installation of appropriate
        versions of firmware and software in accordance with vendor specifications. Ensure
        accurate documentation of same.
        1.3.4.19. Assist SEMS contractors in performing and documenting ACN security
        audits and tests. Conduct and document informal audits in conjunction with SEMS
        inspections.
        1.3.4.20. Develop and manage access lists for ACN platforms employing such lists.
        1.3.4.21. Maintain and configure ACN authentication devices
     1.3.5. SEMS contractor functions are implemented in accordance with associated
     contracts. This section provides the basis for developing appropriate contracts or task
     orders. SEMS contractor responsibilities include:
6                                                    AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010


    1.3.5.1. Maintain network resources, hardware and software, in operating order in
    compliance with current manufacturer recommendations and AFWA policy.
    1.3.5.2. Track the revision status of network components and assist MSC technicians
    as required in updating ACN components and documenting same.
    1.3.5.3. Advise the MSC Chief of needed revisions, enhancements, or updates to
    network components and the impact of installing and not installing.
    1.3.5.4. Develop and annually update maintenance, upgrade, life cycle replacement,
    and sparing plans to achieve a specified level of service.
    1.3.5.5. Perform preventative maintenance in accordance with the maintenance plan
    and manufacturer recommendations and log results for all ACN assets.
    1.3.5.6. Provide on-call response for emergency ACN support as directed by the
    MSC Chief or Systems Duty Officer (SDO) 7 days per week, 24 hours per day with a
    1-hour response time. Coordinate needed configuration changes with the MSC staff
    and initiate calls to vendors as required for troubleshooting component problems.
    1.3.5.7. Install and/or align hardware, firmware, and software as directed by the MSC
    Chief and document configurations in accordance with AFWAMAN 33-2.
    1.3.5.8. Install enhancements (e.g., new or replacement hardware, software, cabling,
    and interfaces) as directed by the MSC Chief.
    1.3.5.9. Prepare implementation plans for all ACN configuration changes. Draft
    outage requests and provide as a package to the MSC Chief in accordance with
    AFWA policy.
    1.3.5.10. Configure, maintain, and operate the ACN test bed as directed by the MSC
    Chief.
    1.3.5.11. Receive, inventory, and warehouse in AFWA spaces, and ship as required
    all ACN and test bed components. Obtain return authorizations as needed for test
    failed components being returned to the vendor.
    1.3.5.12. Test all new hardware and software elements, and document results for
    MSC Chief approval prior to ACN installation.
    1.3.5.13. Assist MSC in identifying more effective and efficient means of ACN
    operation.
    1.3.5.14. Measure and document component maintenance and performance histories;
    suggest needed revisions to ACN troubleshooting guides and plans.
    1.3.5.15. Configure, deploy, employ, and recommend action in response to findings
    from network analysis tools (e.g., protocol analyzers and sniffers).
    1.3.5.16. Conduct periodic physical security audits and tests of ACN procedures and
    brief the MSC Chief on results and recommendations.
    1.3.5.17. Document and assist in reconciliation of documentation of ACN activities.
    1.3.5.18. Maintain ACN Enterprise asset database in coordination with MSC
    technicians.
AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010                                                                    7


         1.3.5.19. Develop drawings, listings, and apply appropriate labels to new and legacy
         components integrated into the ACN as detailed in AFWAMAN 33-2.
         1.3.5.20. Reconcile and document the network management model with the installed
         network configuration at least once per month. Provide documentation to the MSC
         Chief.
         1.3.5.21. Summarize ACN component revisions and changes to software and
         firmware configurations in a monthly report to the MSC Chief. Reconcile these
         summaries with the ACN Enterprise asset database.
         1.3.5.22. Document cost analyses for new connectivity requests, results of needed
         troubleshooting, and other relevant tasks in the work order and Enterprise asset
         database.
     1.3.6. The ACN PM responsibilities include:
         1.3.6.1. Manage ACN life cycle budgeting.
         1.3.6.2. Maintain the ACN Air Force Weather Annual Programming Plan (A2P2)
         and develop associated funding and contractual documents.
         1.3.6.3. Review proposed ACN configuration changes and assess related cost and
         contractual issues. Develop funding and contractual options for review by the MSC
         Chief.
         1.3.6.4. Manage ACN support contracts to ensure necessary contractual support.
         1.3.6.5. Coordinate vendor loan agreements with the Offutt Air Force Base (AFB)
         Contracting Office, suppliers, SEMS, and other offices as needed.
         1.3.6.6. Develop and exploit relationships with AFWA suppliers to most effectively
         employ AFWA resources while ensuring support adequacy and continuity.
         1.3.6.7. Support AFWA acquisition planning; identify options and strategies.
         1.3.6.8. Advise AFWA on viability of plans; assist in coordinating and evaluating
         supplier performance.
  1.4. Additional Staff Functions. While 2SYOS System Operations (SYOO), A6 and A6OS
  are not formally part of the ACN management staff, these offices provide support and their
  responsibilities include:
     1.4.1. SYOO oversees the duties and responsibilities of the SDO and GDO; however,
     there are SDO/GDO duties specific to the operation of the ACN. These include:
         1.4.1.1. Receive, filter, and direct problem reports/change requests to the MSC Chief
         and MSC technicians as appropriate using help desk software.
         1.4.1.2. Provide on-site guidance and task prioritization using established procedures
         for the ACN SEMS contractors in the absence of ACN staff in mission critical
         situations.
         1.4.1.3. Monitor ACN performance using appropriate network management software
         (e.g. Ironview, Open View, and Tivoli) as documented in the ACN SSAA and CCRs.
8                                                          AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010


           1.4.1.4. Monitor activity logging for situations exceeding predefined thresholds and
           alert the ACN staff to such deviations and/or act in accordance with established ACN
           procedures.
       1.4.2. A6 is the program management of external communications systems connecting to
       the ACN.
       1.4.3. A6OS is the proponent for all AFWA certification and accreditation efforts.
       A6OS works closely with the MSC Chief to ensure all applicable accreditation
       documentation (e.g. CCRs, SSAAs) are submitted and processed in a timely manner
       ensuring continued approval to connect.
    1.4.4. The MSC Chief, A6, and A8P work together in order to develop the strategic plan for
    how the ACN needs to adjust to meet new Air Force requirements.
2. NETWORK OPERATIONS POLICY
    2.1. Process Control. 2SYOS disseminates ACN policies which control the first four layers
    (i.e., physical, link, network, and transport) of the Open Systems Interconnect (OSI)
    networking protocol stack for systems connected to ACN. ACN control of end nodes
    includes the interface to the network interface card (NIC) and the NIC configuration. The
    MSC develops procedures necessary to implement ACN policies and monitors user
    compliance.
       2.1.1. The MSC coordinates policies and procedures with the Offutt AFB Network
       Control Center (NCC) in accordance with the established service level agreement to
       ensure consistency and permit full integration of the two networks. ACN policies govern
       all data communications using the ACN architecture and infrastructure. All ACN users
       comply with these policies and procedures unless granted explicit authorization in
       accordance with AFWAMAN 33-2.
       2.1.2. Individuals or system managers requiring data communications support submit an
       Internal Help Desk work ticket via the Remedy system as well as the associated
       accreditation documentation to include an SSAA and/or CCR as required by A6OS.
       2.1.3. All ACN systems will be accredited in accordance with AFI 33-202v1. Changes
       to the accreditation will be documented using the CCR process created by A6OS.
       2.1.4. CCRs will include verification of the connecting system’s current security
       accreditation and identify the following: individual responsible for that system’s
       communications; request and justification; mission impact; risk analysis; software,
       hardware and interface tables as applicable.
       2.1.5. The MSC Chief and A6OS will review all accreditation documents to ensure only
       approved interfaces and accredited connections are identified and pursued.
       2.1.6. Where appropriate A6 provides program management for external connections.
       2.1.7. AFWA acquisition programs obtain AFWA Chief Engineer (A5/8CE) approval
       prior to acquiring any communications assets or obligating AFWA to provide
       communications support. These programs specify timelines and procedures for
       integrating these assets into the ACN.
AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010                                                                    9


  2.2. System Interfaces. AFWAMAN 33-2 categorizes systems connecting with the ACN in
  terms of the level of trust given to those systems by the MSC and A6OS. Level of trust
  differs from the system’s classification. Recognized levels include trusted, Demilitarized
  Zone (DMZ), and untrusted and are determined by the MSC based on each system’s
  connectivity. Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) Facilities (SCIF) and AFWA
  tenants are subsets of these categories based on the manner of their connection and are not
  automatically assigned any particular level of trust.
     2.2.1. Trusted systems connect only to other trusted systems and to the ACN behind the
     AFWA firewall and DMZ. Trusted systems have no other external connections and will
     comply with the following guidelines as a minimum. User systems will not embed
     switching or routing capability without explicit, prior approval by the ACN TIM.
         2.2.1.1. Trusted systems connect to ACN via Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet (GE/c) over
         copper, Gigabit Ethernet (GE/f) over fiber, or Fiber Channel (FC). New trusted
         systems must support Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) /Internet Protocol (IP)
         over Ethernet. ACN will not support new Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI),
         Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM), or other protocol connections without explicit
         A6OS approval. Classified systems will connect to ACN using fiber interfaces unless
         the A5/8CE grants explicit, prior approval for copper interfaces.
         2.2.1.2. Trusted systems interface via the ACN cable infrastructure. The MSC must
         approve the electrical and physical location of all such connections and these
         connections will be labeled and recorded in accordance with AFWAMAN 33-2.
         Trusted system users will not alter ACN interfaces or NIC configurations without
         explicit MSC approval.
         2.2.1.3. New AFWA trusted systems will be compatible with ACN network
         management, Virtual Private Network (VPN), and VLAN architecture. Each
         system’s interface definition as identified in its Connectivity Request specifies the
         network privileges and operating constraints associated with that system.
         2.2.1.4. Trusted systems will not deploy modems for any purpose without explicit
         approval of A6OS.
         2.2.1.5. The MSC explicitly assigns all network addresses for trusted and DMZ
         systems, and no trusted or DMZ system will employ an IP address for any purpose
         without explicit MSC approval.
         2.2.1.6. Trusted systems are aligned according to their primary function-- production,
         development or administration in order to optimize service levels.
         2.2.1.7. The ACN Enterprise Test bed will remain routinely isolated from both the
         ACN and external networks. Temporary connectivity (e.g. unclassified ACN,
         enclaves, DMZ) can be requested as part of a test but must be briefed at both the
         ACN TIM and the Weekly Implementation and Maintenance Meeting (WIMM).
         Only the WIMM has authority to approve temporary connections with either the ACN
         or external networks for testing. A6OS will identify any issues warranting additional
         approval actions. An exception to this procedure will be those assets that are part of
         the permanent ACN test bed hardware/software or the Enterprise Management
         Branch. These are used for troubleshooting and upgrade testing of network
10                                                             AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010


            components and systems. Operational impacts requiring immediate testing of
            hardware/software/patch upgrades may necessitate the connection of this equipment
            to a DMZ interface to facilitate testing. In these instances, the approval authority will
            be the MSC Chief.
        2.2.2. Untrusted systems connect to the ACN only through the ACN firewall and edge
        device. Untrusted systems will:
            2.2.2.1. Interface with ACN using Ethernet, GE/c, GE/f, FC, or wide area interfaces
            (e.g., T-carrier 1 (T1) or Gigabit Ethernet (GE)).
            2.2.2.2. Have no secondary connections to internal, trusted systems.
            2.2.2.3. Operate in accordance with their interface definition which specifies the
            connecting system’s network privileges and operating constraints.
            2.2.2.4. Identify and coordinate the IP addresses of directly connected devices with
            the MSC before beginning operations.
        2.2.3. The DMZ is defined by those systems connected between the edge device and the
        firewall. The MSC Chief regulates DMZ interfaces. All DMZ connections meet the
        same requirements as untrusted systems but also define the level of access required to
        trusted systems and specify access controls required from untrusted networks. The
        interface definition is documented as part of the accreditation process within an SSAA or
        CCR. Requests for interface connectivity are submitted via an Internal Help Desk ticket
        Connectivity Request which details network privileges and operating constraints
        associated with each DMZ system.
     2.3. Compatibility Standards. ACN incorporates, manages, and operates all HQ AFWA
     internal data communications assets (as defined in AFWAMAN 33-2). The ACN TIM
     ensures any system acquisition delivers components and a design compatible with ACN
     standards.
        2.3.1. ACN management systems employ a single set of integrated, commercial-off-the-
        shelf (COTS) tools to manage all AFWA data communications assets through a common
        user interface. New and existing AFWA systems will not duplicate these capabilities or
        acquire tools which are incompatible with the baseline tools. The MSC Chief ensures the
        baseline tools are maintained. Specific baseline tools are described in Attachment 3.
     2.4. Formats and Protocols. System developers and others responsible for building and
     modifying information systems that cross Air Force enclave boundaries shall comply with
     the AF Ports, Protocols and Services Matrix in accordance with AFI 33-137, Air Force Ports,
     Protocols, and Services Management. ACN policy does not address data formats in general;
     however, ACN policies do address those aspects of data format and handling which impact
     data transport and network security specific to AFWA systems. These policies ensure
     interface compatibility and consistent delivery of defined support levels.
        2.4.1. Several methods exist for exchanging data. Network efficiency and security limit
        ACN users to the following methodologies:
            2.4.1.1. Trusted users may exchange data using Secure File Transfer Protocol
            (SFTP). Trusted systems may also transfer data and files to DMZ and untrusted
            systems using SFTP. Conversely, untrusted and DMZ systems may not transfer data
AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010                                                                   11


         and files to trusted systems using SFTP unless explicitly authorized by A6OS.
         Trusted systems may pull data and files from DMZ systems.
         2.4.1.2. File and data shipments associated with electronic mail (e-mail) between
         trusted users use SFTP whenever the file or data set to be transferred exceeds 50
         megabytes (MB).
         2.4.1.3. Network File System (NFS) mounts degrade network performance for many
         users and are strongly discouraged. Users requesting new or modified connections
         with the ACN will identify any requirements for new NFS mounts before
         development of a system is pursued. NFS mounts within subnets are evaluated on a
         case-by-case basis and will be permitted only when there is no other viable technical
         solution and then only for a specified period during which the petitioner will develop
         an acceptable standard solution. ACN cannot guarantee continuity of new NFS
         mounts established. NFS mounts are expressly forbidden between trusted and
         untrusted systems.
     2.4.2. ACN management and interface standards dictate connected systems meet a small
     set of protocols regarding data exchange.
         2.4.2.1. Trusted and DMZ automation and communications devices connected to the
         ACN must support and provide ACN access to Simple Network Management
         Protocol (SNMP) and Internet Monitor (INMON) protocol. All DMZ and trusted
         users must comply with this constraint regardless of the date their system or
         equipment is incorporated into the ACN.
         2.4.2.2. Trusted systems exchange data using TCP/IP, TCP, FC, or User Datagram
         Protocol (UDP), and systems connecting to ACN must be compatible with one or
         more of these protocols. All system interfaces must be documented through the
         accreditation process. Any ports, protocols and services that cross the AF boundary
         which are not listed in the current AF ports and protocols matrix must be registered
         through the MSC and in accordance with AFI 33-137.
     2.4.3. Trusted ACN users will limit maximum transfer unit (MTU) size for packets
     introduced into the ACN as directed by the MSC.
  2.5. Access Control. Access to ACN and its physical components is controlled. The MSC
  employ a variety of controls including passwords, access limited addresses, VLANs, VPNs,
  firewalls, and locked cabinets/closets.
     2.5.1. Physical Access Policy. SEMS contractors will receive and inventory all ACN
     components before they are allocated to operations or bench stock. Communications
     assets incorporated into the ACN as part of a connecting system will be inventoried by
     SEMS contractors before connection approval. The connection approval specifies the
     process for complying with ACN access policies.
         2.5.1.1. All operational ACN networking components will be located in ACN closets
         or racks. All ACN wiring closets and free-standing equipment racks will be locked at
         all times except when work is being done to components in that facility. The MSC
         Chief controls key distribution in coordination with the AFWA Facility Manager.
         2.5.1.2. ACN bench stock will be stored only in controlled access spaces by SEMS.
12                                                           AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010


           2.5.1.3. Only SEMS contractors or MSC technicians are authorized to modify or
           reconfigure ACN assets and then only as directed by the MSC Chief or SDO.
           Realigning cables or jumpers and connecting or disconnecting end user equipment are
           considered modification or reconfiguration of ACN assets.
           2.5.1.4. ACN patch panels, Fiber Distribution Centers, patch or jump cables, FC
           cabling, and backbone cable runs are handled in a manner similar to networking
           hardware. While ACN junction boxes, grid boxes, and wall panels may sometimes
           exist in user space, only MSC technicians or SEMS contractors are authorized to
           modify or realign connectivity. These points and the associated cables are part of the
           ACN and are managed accordingly.
           2.5.1.5. Port locking is established to deter users from attaching unapproved systems
           to the ACN as well as to discourage moving equipment without authorization.
        2.5.2. The MSC implements VLANs, VPNs, and password control to further limit access
        to the ACN and its component configurations. A6OS tracks these procedures to ensure
        they comply with relevant AF and DoD directives while meeting ACN operational and
        security requirements.
     2.6. Maintenance and Problem Resolution. ACN maintenance consists of preventative,
     corrective, and adaptive maintenance. Maintenance actions may require WIMM approval.
     Adaptive maintenance changes ACN configuration and must comply with AFWAMAN 33-2.
        2.6.1. SEMS contractors accomplish preventative maintenance in accordance with
        procedures described herein and governing contractual provisions. This effort includes
        all ACN components and requires WIMM approval. SEMS contractors develop
        preventative maintenance schedules to increase network component life span and
        minimize outages due to component failure. MSC technicians develop similar schedules
        for ACN equipment involved in SCIF and Secret Internet Protocol Routed Network
        (SIPRNET) operations.
        2.6.2. Corrective maintenance may result from discoveries made during preventative
        maintenance or from component failures. The MSC monitors the network for signs of
        errors or problems in network functions and generates work orders to correct such
        problems when identified. WIMM approval, when applicable, will be sought when
        scheduled maintenance is determined to cause service interruptions.
        2.6.3. Adaptive maintenance includes any efforts which modify the configuration or
        capabilities of the ACN or its components, including associated documents. This
        includes updates and upgrades of network components, the incorporation of new
        components or protocols, and the connection of new systems. AFWAMAN 33-2 governs
        adaptive maintenance in conjunction with applicable SEMS contract provisions.
     2.7. Performance Monitoring. The MSC Chief defines and tracks specified ACN
     performance metrics to define system service levels and quantify the impact of system
     changes. These reports are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-322, Records
     Management Program and AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records.
3. NETWORK OPERATIONS PROCEDURES
AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010                                                                   13


  3.1. Procedure Definition. The MSC Chief develops procedures to implement ACN
  policies. ACN users can recommend changes to these procedures using work tickets within
  the Remedy system to document the recommendations, and these changes are adjudicated in
  accordance with AFWAMAN 33-2. The MSC Chief and A6 periodically hold a TIM to
  develop and review detailed plans and procedures supporting ACN operations. The TIM
  directly supports ACN activities and is described in Attachment 2. This chapter summarizes
  ACN operational procedures and associated documents.
  3.2. System Management. The MSC Chief defines and develops procedures to assess ACN
  service levels. Metrics may include network load, errors, broadcasts and protocols present.
  These procedures employ network Enterprise Management Software tools (e.g. OpenView,
  Netview, InMon, Tivoli) to track the status and performance of all network equipment and
  produce alarms when failures occur.
     3.2.1. The SDO will employ OpenView, Netview, and Tivoli to monitor ACN
     operational status and localize potential problems. The MSC and SEMS technicians use
     OpenView, InMon, and IronView, in conjunction with sniffers to assess the ACN
     operations and identify or project potential capability shortfalls.
     3.2.2. ACN employs SNMP and INMON facilities and packet analyzers. Analysis of
     network protocols supports trend analysis and troubleshooting. The MSC Chief directs
     the use of sniffers to track network performance, project requirements, and isolate
     problem areas.
     3.2.3. Active directory, policy routes, proxy systems and access controls will also be
     used to facilitate ACN system management in accordance with applicable AF and AFWA
     policies.
  3.3. Connection Procedures. The following connection procedures apply to all new and
  existing systems resident on the AFWA ACN:
     3.3.1. The PM or System Administrator (SA) for the connecting system is the focal point
     for submitting all applicable accreditation documentation in accordance with A6OS
     guidance as well as Internal Help Desk tickets to include all technical requirements for
     connectivity. The PM and SA are also responsible for ensuring that the TIM is met when
     applicable. To assist in this process, the MSC reviews requirements, connectivity, and
     components of users and systems requesting ACN connectivity and makes
     recommendations on this process. The PM and/or SA will brief the TIM on their
     proposal. The MSC Chief may bypass this procedure in an emergency.
     3.3.2. The SA, for an operational system, confirms the functional system’s accreditation
     status and approval to operate in the configuration proposed for ACN connection. The
     SA provides this information on and delivers a copy of any needed certification
     documentation as required for the ACN TIM to ascertain the connection’s viability.
         3.3.2.1. The SA, A6 and MSC review system accreditation, interim accreditation,
         external agency approval, or other form of certification for a connecting system prior
         to assigning a level of trust. A6 must certify compliance with applicable DoD, AF,
         and AFWA security regulations regarding data communications prior to connectivity.
14                                                        AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010


        3.3.2.2. All interfaces to the connecting system must be declared and their level of
        trust determined. A6 and MSC personnel review all system interfaces to assess the
        impact of such connectivity and determine the appropriate level of trust for the
        system.
     3.3.3. The MSC Chief must review and certify all proposed ACN interfaces in terms of
     their standards compliance. The ACN TIM designs and sizes all connections to the ACN
     in concert with SAs. The A5/8CE and/or WIMM must approve all new, permanent ACN
     interfaces from the perspective of their impact on ACN performance and accreditation
     before their implementation by the MSC technicians and SEMS contractors.
        3.3.3.1. SAs must provide system level diagrams, major network component lists,
        and intra-network and inter-network connectivity to the ACN TIM prior to
        connectivity. They must also provide packet flow analyses and usage predictions.
        The MSC assesses the impact on ACN service levels and advises the A5/8CE and/or
        WIMM accordingly.
        3.3.3.2. The MSC assists SAs with scheduling of any system tests. System tests
        evaluate unique protocol, interface, or system requirements and test
        hardware/software functionality and identify and mitigate any potential network risks
        and vulnerabilities prior to operational connection to ACN. The SA develops a test
        plan and reports results to the ACN TIM. A mutually acceptable implementation plan
        defining expected impacts and mitigation techniques should be the end product. This
        plan, risk analysis and the connecting system’s accreditation documentation are
        prerequisites for operational connectivity with the ACN.
        3.3.3.3. The PM, Lead Command Manager or SA briefs the A5/8CE and/or WIMM
        on the system’s interface definition and a summary of its expected impact on ACN,
        including:
           3.3.3.3.1. Packet flow analysis.
           3.3.3.3.2. Current and expected future bandwidth requirements.
           3.3.3.3.3. Possible impacts of connectivity.
           3.3.3.3.4. Secondary network interfaces.
           3.3.3.3.5. Network ports, protocol, and service requirements.
           3.3.3.3.6. VLAN/VPN compatibility.
           3.3.3.3.7. Management system compatibility.
           3.3.3.3.8. Risk analysis.
           3.3.3.3.9. Test bed report.
     3.3.4. The MSC controls IP address and standard naming conventions for ACN systems
     and for interfacing systems not using Dynamic Host Control Protocol (DHCP). Systems
     interfacing with ACN will not use an IP address without MSC approval. IP address
     requests follow established AFWA procedures and are normally included in the
     accreditation and CCR process. Requests for IP addresses are submitted through the
     Internal Help Desk ticket system and will be issued upon MSC review and approval.
AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010                                                                    15


     Requests for address changes or other interface changes are handled in accordance with
     AFWAMAN 33-2.
         3.3.4.1. The MSC implements the Integrated Network Operations and Security
         Center, East (INOSC-E)’s network standard naming convention plan, and the ACN
         TIM, or MSC assigns individual IP addresses in compliance with this plan
         3.3.4.2. MSC technicians use a database or commercial address management system
         to track all ACN assigned addresses. The database includes all systems connected to
         ACN and their associated equipment addresses. All changes to node locations,
         network interfaces, physical addresses, points of contact, and associated functions are
         tracked with the assigned addresses.
         3.3.4.3. IP addresses are correlated to the VLAN/VPN management system.
     3.3.5. The MSC directs development of DNS management procedures, and the MSC
     technicians establish, implement, and maintain these procedures on all ACN DNS
     platforms. Such use will generally be limited to approved static routing on clearly
     delineated subnets or for limited periods.
  3.4. Component and System Access. MSC personnel coordinate all ACN access controls
  with the Offutt AFB NCC in accordance with the established Memorandum of Agreement
  (MOA). Certain address spaces are not permitted access to other systems based upon the
  relative levels of trust. These controls are implemented using VLAN/VPN technologies,
  network topology, router filters, firewall policy, Access Control Lists (ACLs), and reverse
  proxy. The SA implements an ACL for each component capable of implementing an access
  control list in order to limit access by all but ACN management systems.
     3.4.1. Physical Security. 2SYOS and SEMS confirm compliance with ACN security
     procedures through periodic physical system audits. SEMS closet inspections conducted
     as part of the preventative maintenance program constitute part of the informal audit
     process. Additionally, computer rooms and communication closets are controlled using a
     combination of key locks, cipher locks, monitoring of door alarms, and/or proximity
     access cards. SDOs provide 24/7 physical control of equipment within the computer
     rooms.
     3.4.2. Password Control. The MSC and SAs ensure that all passwords and control
     procedures for all ACN components are developed in accordance with AFMAN 33-223,
     Identification and Authentication.
     3.4.3. Network Filters. The A6 and MSC guide the technicians and SAs in devising and
     installing appropriate security perimeters to include firewall and DMZ filters. ACN may
     also employ filters as part of the VLAN/VPN implementation to better manage network
     access. Filters limit access between subnets within the network as well as manage packet
     flow. The accreditation process documents the specific protocols allowed through the
     network filters and the SAs periodically confirm this by protocol analysis on a system by
     system basis.
     3.4.4. The 55th Communications Squadron (55CS) employs proxy systems, anti-IP
     spoofing filters, firewalls, and address translation to prevent external systems from
     determining the addresses of internal, trusted network devices. Additional security
16                                                              AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010


        measures run on a local host and limit certain functions to specific addresses or address
        spaces to ensure only authorized users or hosts perform specific functions.
     3.5. Intrusion Detection. INOSC-E and 55CS ensure activity monitoring and logging using
     ACN firewalls and an Intrusion Detection System (IDS). The SA alerts network operations
     personnel of unauthorized access attempts and submits all applicable incident reports in
     accordance with AFI 33-138, Enterprise Network Operations Notification and Tracking. A6
     may periodically request activity monitoring to evaluate ACN security. A6 may employ
     outside agents for this effort. The MSC coordinates ACN efforts with Offutt AFB NCC
     activities in accordance with established MOA.
        3.5.1. The SA ensures all audits and activity monitoring results are stored and reviewed
        in accordance with AFI 33-202v1. The MSC ensures the review of all log entries for
        trouble shooting and isolating unauthorized access attempts.
     3.6. System Maintenance. SEMS develops a maintenance plan for ACN TIM review and
     approval and performs ACN preventative maintenance in accordance with the plan. SEMS
     documents maintenance actions in an inspection report for MSC Chief and A6 review and
     inclusion in the Enterprise Asset database.
        3.6.1. Unauthorized and undocumented connections. SEMS and MSC personnel inspect
        all cable runs for proper documentation. If an undocumented run is found, it is brought to
        the immediate attention of the MSC Chief. The MSC Chief determines if the cable is a
        valid portion of the network. If it is, the MSC Chief ensures the run is properly
        documented and labeled in accordance with AFWAMAN 33-2. If the connection cannot
        be confirmed to be a valid part of the network the MSC Chief directs its immediate
        removal. Such connections may be reinstalled only upon delivery of the associated
        documentation.
        3.6.2. Observable equipment errors or faults. All cable terminations in ACN equipment
        are inspected for link, traffic, and errors or faults. If there is no indication of link, SEMS
        identifies the cause for lack of link. If equipment is no longer attached to the cable
        SEMS disconnects the cable and documents the removal in accordance with AFWAMAN
        33-2.
        3.6.3. Unusual equipment behavior or indications. The MSC Chief identifies and directs
        investigation of ports with unusually high traffic indications to validate the traffic.
        Significant increases in traffic are reviewed by the MSC and SEMS to determine the
        appropriate response.
        3.6.4. Annual Maintenance Records Review. The MSC review all maintenance records
        for equipment, closets, and cabinets annually. The annual review looks for recurring
        events, problems, or trends that could lead to future problems.
        3.6.5. SEMS employs automated and manual tools to inspect all connections for
        indications of failures and errors. Protocol analysis is performed as required.
        Technicians document all steps and resolutions. The MSC Chief reviews and validates
        any corrective actions in the aforementioned maintenance logs.
     3.7. Component Management. SEMS develops and periodically updates a plan to assure
     adequate sparing, upgrades, updates, and life cycle replacement for ACN components. The
AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010                                                                     17


  plan considers warranty information, component firmware and software currency, sparing,
  and life cycle replacement. SEMS uses automated tools to conduct this asset management
  process and link it with the Enterprise asset database. The ACN management system will be
  integrated into the enterprise asset data base and is reviewed periodically by the technicians.
     3.7.1. Managed components include all configuration items identified in AFWAMAN
     33-2.
     3.7.2. The database tracks the following metrics for all managed components:
         3.7.2.1. Physical description.
         3.7.2.2. Functional/logical description.
         3.7.2.3. Warranty information.
         3.7.2.4. Configuration.
         3.7.2.5. Age.
         3.7.2.6. Firmware revision/version level.
         3.7.2.7. Maintenance points of contact.
         3.7.2.8. Physical location.
         3.7.2.9. Logical location.
         3.7.2.10. All associated addresses.
         3.7.2.11. Access information.
         3.7.2.12. Maintenance records.
     3.7.3. SEMS routinely updates the database using either automated or manual processes.
     SEMS provides regular reports and an annual documentation review corresponding to the
     maintenance records review to the MSC Chief for approval or further action.
     3.7.4. Troubleshooting. The MSC Chief documents troubleshooting procedures in
     coordination with MSC technicians and SEMS.                ACN management roles and
     administrative structure are clearly defined in the troubleshooting documentation. The
     MSC Chief ensures MSC technicians and SEMS contractors are thoroughly trained in the
     appropriate aspects of the troubleshooting procedures outlined in the documentation. The
     MSC Chief updates the troubleshooting guides annually and as changes are made to the
     ACN. MSC technicians and SEMS contractors analyze previous problem reports for
     trends and recurring problems to integrate into the troubleshooting documentation.
4. TEST BED OPERATIONS
  4.1. Configuration and Purpose. The ACN test bed environment provides isolated
  communications resources sufficient to emulate overall ACN capabilities as necessary to
  evaluate new technologies and changes to the network architecture without impact to the
  operational network. As a minimum, the test bed includes at least one copy of each network
  component and can be configured to mimic the ACN. The test bed also contains equipment
  required to test network components and systems. The test bed is managed as an integral
  part of the ACN for maintenance and configuration. The test bed also serves as the core
  enterprise test bed for AFWA.
18                                                             AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010


     4.2. Test bed Functions. 2SYOS directs employment of the test bed to evaluate component
     compatibility; assess new designs and firmware and software upgrades; develop improved
     configurations, and determine potential impacts of new connectivity.
        4.2.1. The test bed will support three general types of testing:
           4.2.1.1. Type 1 - Permanent ACN component test and configuration prior to
           deployment or following possible failures.
           4.2.1.2. Type 2 - Extended tests of proposed new ACN equipment configurations
           using both permanent and temporary assets. Temporary assets may include vendor
           loan or government-owned materials.
           4.2.1.3. Type 3 - Extended tests of end user equipment requiring ACN connectivity
           using both permanent and temporary assets. Temporary assets may include vendor
           loan or government-owned materials.
        4.2.2. Permanent Component Updates. As vendor updates to permanent components are
        made available, the MSC and SEMS track and test the updates for compatibility and
        applicability to the ACN. SEMS uses the test bed to document all findings related to
        vendor updates and the MSC reviews for possible implementation and incorporation in
        the Equipment Updates and Upgrades Survey Document. Recommendations for updates
        to be implemented, procedures on how to best perform the updates, and time frames to
        include estimated downtime and proposed dates for implementation are given to the
        MSC. Once the MSC Chief has approved, the proposal for implementation will proceed
        in accordance with all applicable briefings. If an important update is identified, it can be
        installed prior to full documentation in accordance with AFWAMAN 33-2.
        Documentation for preinstalled updates is still completed as scheduled for historical
        reference.
        4.2.3. Permanent Component Upgrades. New technologies and improvements in ACN
        component design are fully tested and documented in the test bed. The MSC actively
        tracks and researches new technologies and improvements in the components used in
        ACN and possible replacements.
        4.2.4. The MSC Chief guides SEMS use of the test bed to assess proposed ACN
        interfaces and evaluate industry trends for applicability to AFWA and ACN.
           4.2.4.1. The MSC evaluates findings regarding proposed interface configurations for
           permanent equipment as part of the interface approval process.
               4.2.4.1.1. Findings regarding new technologies are published in the Equipment
               Updates and Upgrades Survey Document to include a cost-benefit analysis.
               4.2.4.1.2. The SAs consult A6OS to ensure continued network certification and
               to identify potential new security capabilities.
               4.2.4.1.3. A6 and MSC personnel review security-related systems testing and the
               security aspects of all new interfaces and components.
        4.2.5. Expansion Requirements and Alternatives. A6 and MSC personnel submit plans
        for test bed use in evaluating ACN expansion requirements and alternatives.
AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010                                                                   19


         4.2.5.1. MSC and SEMS personnel develop sound expansion strategies. Significant
         changes are closely coordinated with A6, A5/8CE, and A8Pto determine the impact to
         AFWA automation architecture.
         4.2.5.2. The ACN PM coordinates these results with the ACN management team and
         documents these strategies annually in the ACN A2P2. This plan presents the best
         strategies for keeping the ACN both current and appropriately scaled.
     4.2.6. Non-permanent Equipment Evaluation. The test bed environment may also be
     used by AFWA system owners and users as a facility to evaluate non-permanent
     equipment and to evaluate component compatibility; assess new designs and firmware
     and software upgrades; develop improved configurations, and determine potential
     impacts of new connectivity.
         4.2.6.1. Test bed petitioners outside the MSC staff must be prepared to complete all
         required documents to include test plans and results, CCRs, and provide risk analysis
         results as required. Additionally, any actions necessary to bring test systems into
         compliance with applicable vendor or AF-mandated software patches must be
         coordinated by the petitioner and accomplished prior to the final test. A6, MSC or
         SEMS personnel may assist with technical questions or problems associated
         therewith, but the petitioner remains the proponent for ensuring the documents are
         completed and submitted appropriately.
         4.2.6.2. The ACN TIM reviews proposed Test bed projects and test plans for
         technical viability. The TIM documents any additional resources required to the
         ACN PM or the PM for the associated systems undergoing the test. The PMs are
         responsible for acquiring the appropriate assets.
         4.2.6.3. Once the test is approved, the MSC Chief adjudicates the priority of Test bed
         operations and the deployment of Test bed resources.
  4.3. Component Use. The MSC monitors ACN component use in the test bed and directs
  the addition of new components and the deletion of old components in accordance with
  AFWAMAN 33-2 and PM acquisition activities. Hardware and software provided under a
  vendor loan agreement or other, no-cost arrangement will not be employed outside the test
  bed without the explicit, prior approval of the A5/8CE and then only in a manner consistent
  with the relevant loan agreement.
     4.3.1. Component Acquisition. Test bed components may be acquired through direct
     purchase or under loan or demonstration arrangements. Only the 2SYOS Operations
     Flight Director (SYO) or the MSC Chief with subsequent SYO approval can authorize a
     request for evaluation or demonstration components. The MSC Chief will not authorize
     the acquisition of evaluation or demonstration components without reviewing a test plan
     outlining the planned deployment and evaluation criteria for the components. SEMS
     manages vendor loan equipment in the same manner as other ACN components and
     arranges packing and return shipment of the components following testing.
5. TRAINING AND DOCUMENTATION
  5.1. Overview. Training and documentation provide the critical continuity and procedural
  definition needed to operate the ACN in a dependable manner and ensure the system’s ability
20                                                           AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010


     to respond to short-notice changes in requirements. This chapter summarizes ACN training
     activities and required ACN documentation.
     5.2. Training. Adequate training is essential to exploit the full capabilities of the ACN
     while simultaneously ensuring its reliability. Training includes vendor training on
     maintenance and operation of hardware and software components, and OJT on individual
     ACN component functions. The MSC Chief and MSC NCOIC establish training
     requirements for both DoD and contractor staff.
        5.2.1. In-House Training. The MSC Chief directs development of an OJT program and
        may employ in-house training aids to support it. The MSC NCOIC develops individual
        training programs in concert with the Manpower, Organization, and Resources Division
        (DPB) and maintains any ACN-unique in-house training materials. Training material is
        kept on-site in the MSC and is accessible to MSC technicians. The materials are updated
        as on an as needed basis to include when new systems are introduced, new routines are
        implemented in the maintenance of the network, new components are added to the
        architecture, and additions to the infrastructure are made.
        5.2.2. Vendor Training. Vendor provided training on specific hardware and software
        components and concepts is critical to sustaining ACN service levels. The MSC Chief
        and PM coordinate funds for necessary formal training for the ACN in concert with
        A1M.
     5.3. Basic System Documents. Four documents constitute the basis for ACN operations
     and define the production baseline. These same four documents identify all underlying
     documentation required to support and operate the ACN and are routinely updated to reflect
     the production system:
        5.3.1. The ACN PM develops Program Readiness Review and Program Management
        Review briefings based on the A2P2 and coordinate these with ACN management. The
        PM also prepares the annual A2P2 using inputs from the ACN management team. The
        A2P2 provides a basis for planning future ACN funding while guiding evolution of the
        current production baseline. The A2P2 identifies future requirements, current and
        expected future capability shortfalls, performance trends, and mitigation strategies.
        Where appropriate, it refers to detailed parts lists and design details to expedite
        acquisition and implementation planning.
        5.3.2. The MSC Chief coordinates with AFWA CM personnel to maintain and update
        AFWAMAN 33-2 and recommends new or modified CM processes as appropriate.
        Updates also incorporate details on the use of various automated tools as these tools are
        delivered. AFWAMAN 33-2 provides the basis for selecting and configuring or
        developing the configuration and asset management tools and processes employed by the
        ACN staff.
        5.3.3. AFWAMAN 33-1 provides the basis for the MSC to construct detailed operating
        guidelines and instructions in compliance with AFWA policies and procedures.
        AFWAMAN 33-1 prescribes the operational documents used in managing the ACN and
        explains their use and development process.
        5.3.4. The ACN SSAA is the focus of A6OS analyses needed to sustain ACN approval
        to operate. A6 updates it in conjunction with the ACN Certifier or DAA, as required, to
AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010                                                                      21


     retain operating accreditation at all times. The document is a part of the ACN CM
     baseline.
  5.4. Drawings. The review and approval process outlined in AFWAMAN 33-2 identifies
  the need for complete baseline documentation. This includes cable run, rack elevations, and
  backplane elevations for all ACN assets. SEMS develops engineering drawings in
  accordance with AFWAMAN 33-2 and procedures outlined by the MSC Chief. These
  drawings are readily available to the SDO, SEMS and MSC personnel and may be stored in
  soft or hardcopy as appropriate. SEMS prepares redlines to these drawings to support
  proposed changes in configuration and incorporates alterations to the drawings as soon as the
  alterations are completed. The drawings are closely correlated with the ACN assets stored in
  the Enterprise asset database.
     5.4.1. Component Diagrams. A6, in concert with SEMS, maintains ACN component
     drawings documenting the current ACN configuration. These identify used and unused
     ports for each interface at the component level. All configuration changes are
     incorporated in the component diagrams. Backplane drawings and rack elevations are
     created and maintained by SEMS for all configurable ACN components and equipment
     racks.
     5.4.2. Infrastructure Drawings. SEMS maintains an ACN cable plant drawing on to-
     scale floor plans showing endpoints and physical routes of all cables. The drawings
     depict the actual media installation as well as patch panels, light trays, and other major
     interface points. The drawings are tracked according to the AFWAMAN 33-2.
  5.5. Interface Listings. SEMS maintains an accurate and complete description of ACN port
  utilization and availability in accordance with AFWAMAN 33-2. SEMS maintains the
  interface listings consistent with component and interconnection documentation. The
  interface listings incorporate a port-by-port description of all connectivity in and to the ACN.
  The interface listings support the system drawings and are updated by SEMS whenever
  architectural changes are made to ACN and related systems. These listings are consistent
  with the system model maintained by the MSC using network management tools. MSC and
  SEMS technicians periodically review and compare interface listings with the physical
  installation in order to verify the representations are consistent. The MSC technicians in
  conjunction with SEMS document this verification as part of an annual CM audit.
  5.6. Line Listings. SEMS maintains a connection list with routing information,
  documenting the endpoints of all installed media and the media path between endpoints as
  part of the infrastructure documentation. The endpoints are identified by their label, room,
  and location within the room. The line listings include optical time domain reflectometry
  (OTDR) trace references and other media condition indications including power loss
  measurements. All Unshielded Twisted Pair (UTP) connections are classified as Category
  (CAT) 5 compliant, CAT 5E compliant, CAT 6 compliant, or non-compliant. The effective
  length of all lines is recorded. MSC technicians review these lists periodically. All changes
  and additions to the infrastructure are recorded in the line listings with appropriate test
  results. SEMS maintains line listings in a database correlated with hardware and interface
  definitions and infrastructure drawings.
  5.7. Address Tracking. MSC technicians maintain all network addresses using a database
  or commercial address management product. The address listings are updated as addresses
22                                                               AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010


     are assigned, changed, or removed from the network. The MSC Chief conducts a semi-
     annual review of all addresses assigned to ensure database and documentation accuracy. The
     address database is available to MSC, SEMS and A6 personnel.
     5.8. Maintenance and Sparing Plans. SEMS develops maintenance and sparing plans to
     support ACN operations. These plans are reviewed annually or when the network
     configuration is changed and must be approved by the A5/8CE.
6. PLANNING AND CONTINGENCY
     6.1. Advance Preparation. Contingencies may take the form of new requirements
     generated by external or internal customers or result from the failure of network components
     or external interfaces. The ACN A2P2 details long-term plans for system response to new
     requirements, exploiting new technologies, and operational availability. This section
     establishes the AFWA policies guiding both the acquisition and implementation of new
     technologies and the use of existing resources to respond to near-term contingencies.
     6.2. Critical Functions. The MSC Chief identifies ACN functions essential to sustain
     minimum service levels to highest priority AFWA requirements. The MSC develops a
     contingency plan for network recovery embodying a rank-ordered list of critical ACN
     functions predicated on policy and AFWA operational availability requirements.
        6.2.1. The MSC Chief and TIM regularly review and approve or request modifications to
        this list. The list forms the basis for prioritizing repair and recovery operations as well as
        permitting rapid realignment of available resources if necessary.
        6.2.2. The ACN is designed to meet a system-wide operational availability of 99.9% as
        specified in the 12 March 2001 Centralized Aerospace Weather Capability Operational
        Requirements Document (CAWC ORD).
        6.2.3. Operational availability (Ao) is a function of mean time between critical failure
        (MTBCF) and mean time to restore functions (MTTRF) and will be determined using the
        following:
            6.2.3.1. Ao = MTBCF / (MTBCF + MTTRF)
            6.2.3.2. Where MTBCF = (operating time) / (number of critical failures)
            6.2.3.3. MTTRF = (total time down from critical failures) / (number of critical
            failures)
        6.2.4. A "critical failure" will be defined as an interruption that:
            6.2.4.1. Prevents a warning product from being sent within 1 minute of the required
            time limits
            6.2.4.2. Prevents a scheduled product from being sent within 30 minutes of its
            scheduled time.
     6.3. Disaster Recovery. ACN incorporates both hardware and architectural redundancies
     and reserve bandwidth and connectivity to minimize denial of service to ACN customers.
     This reserve capacity is crucial to disaster recovery and ensures ACN responsiveness to
     changing DoD requirements. It will be maintained at levels in accordance with AFWA
AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010                                                                  23


  standard information systems requirements. This section provides guidance in the use of
  ACN assets for recovery from a denial of service or catastrophic network failures.
     6.3.1. Sparing. Sparing ensures an on-site supply of line-replaceable-units (LRU) to
     permit equipment swap-out in case of component failure. SEMS develops and updates a
     sparing plan predicated on the list of critical support functions and consistent with
     AFWA requirements for information systems operational availability. Accordingly, the
     plan will consider the operational availability of individual hardware components and the
     availability of replacement hardware through manufacturer maintenance contracts. The
     MSC Chief reviews this plan at least annually and recommends acceptance or rework to
     the TIM. Moreover, SEMS provides a quarterly report on spares consumption and
     identifies planned changes in the sparing plan for concurrence from the MSC Chief.
     ACN design will emphasize vendor and component commonality in order to minimize
     required spares.
        6.3.1.1. Core components will be configured in highly available or redundant
        configurations to minimize probability of losing communications and be configured
        with redundant power and management resources. All network closets are linked by
        two or more physically disparate cable paths.
        6.3.1.2. Major ACN components have hot-swappable interface cards to maintain
        connectivity while cards are swapped.
        6.3.1.3. Smaller switches, interface modules and power supplies, and subcomponents
        are spared in accordance with the SEMS maintenance plan.
        6.3.1.4. SEMS maintains a limited number of tested patch, drop cables and
        associated fabrication and test capabilities, allowing faster troubleshooting, failure
        recovery, and reconfiguration. The majority of circuits have alternate routes and
        spare media to provide limited service.
        6.3.1.5. AFWA owned test bed equipment can be used, in an emergency, to
        temporarily restore service. Vendor-owned equipment assigned to the test bed for
        test and evaluation may not be diverted from its contractual purposes. Any
        reconfiguration will be accomplished in accordance with AFWAMAN 33-2.
        6.3.1.6. The ACN PM maintains manufacturer support agreements for ACN
        components which provide effective offsite sparing via replacement, usually within
        24 hours, of failed ACN components. SEMS employs these agreements and the
        associated exchange of components in conjunction with the PM.
        6.3.1.7. Non-like sparing using older components provides limited additional backup
        in the event of catastrophic failures. SEMS incorporates use of this equipment in the
        sparing plan, specifying spares available and how they may be used to recover from
        different disaster scenarios.
     6.3.2. Backups. The MSC identifies configuration files and settings for which backup is
     required. Some configurations may be stored electronically both on and off-site.
     Electronic copies can be stored on various media and may be made over a network in an
     automated fashion. SEMS maintains backups in accordance with the sparing plan.
24                                                          AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010


        6.3.2.1. Backups are performed whenever configuration changes are made. MSC
        technicians check configurations and ensure monthly backups are performed. System
        management software may be used to automatically accomplish these updates.
        6.3.2.2. A series of configuration versions is kept in on-site storage using automated
        CM tools to provide quick recovery from improper configuration changes and assist
        in trouble shooting. A minimum of two previous configurations is stored on site, and
        1 year of past configurations is maintained according to AFI 33-322 and AFMAN 33-
        363.
     6.3.3. Reconfigurations. Denial of service to some users may be necessary to provide
     service to the critical systems following significant failures. The list of critical support
     functions in the contingency plan is the key to determining when and to what extent the
     network will be reconfigured. The Superintendent ensures the reconfiguration process is
     incorporated in troubleshooting guides using the following guidelines.
        6.3.3.1. The MSC or SEMS technicians first compare the installation in question
        with the Enterprise asset database and baseline drawings to confirm the installation
        has not been inadvertently reconfigured. If variations are found, the installation is
        immediately realigned to baseline configuration and A6 is alerted to a potential
        compromise of network integrity.
        6.3.3.2. Down interfaces are checked for cable faults. A power loss measurement or
        OTDR reading can be used to report cable status. The circuit may be moved to
        alternate links if repair is not immediate. The critical support functions list specifies
        timing for such decisions.
        6.3.3.3. For failures unrelated to the cable, the interface port is checked next. If one
        end is a NIC, replacement of the NIC may be required to determine if it is the cause
        of the problem. This is only attempted after the cable, port, NIC configuration, and
        switch are eliminated as possible causes. If there are no available, open like-ports, a
        non-critical system may—with prior coordination—be temporarily swapped to the
        suspect port in order to test the functional port.
        6.3.3.4. Critical systems on a down interface card are given priority over non-critical
        systems. If an appropriate interface card supports only non-critical systems, a swap
        of the failed board for the one supporting the non-critical systems is performed—with
        prior coordination—if appropriate spares are not available.
        6.3.3.5. When the port, cable, and NIC are eliminated as possible problems, the
        network component chassis interface card is tested next. Moving the card to another
        slot in the chassis can identify back plane problems. If an interface card or switch is
        determined to be at fault, and no spare is available, workarounds with patching and/or
        multi-port repeaters may be employed for limited support.
        6.3.3.6. Widespread component failures may require a combination of approaches.
        Accurate prioritization of systems’ criticality is essential in recovering from such
        events. If the infrastructure is damaged beyond immediate repair, alternate means of
        communications may be needed.
AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010                                                                   25


     6.3.4. Alternate Communications Technologies.           Several alternate means of
     communication are available for recovery from disaster. In such a scenario, it is critical
     to identify an alternate means of conducting critical communications. The MSC Chief
     and A6 coordinate the inclusion of such planning in the ACN A2P2, and ensure details
     are identified in the troubleshooting guidelines. They address specific alternative
     communication technologies or resources (e.g., Offutt AFB networks) to assist
     production and dissemination of critical products.
  6.4. System Expansion and Upgrading. The ACN design provides integral expansion and
  upgrade paths. These support network response to new requirements while focusing system
  evolution. This section provides insight into the ACN design philosophy in order to fully
  inculcate these design parameters in both planned and unplanned changes.
     6.4.1. Philosophy. The ACN design minimizes the number of devices between packet
     origin and destination by grouping like users in zones or VLANs predicated on their
     functions. Newer technology is inserted into the backbone, and older technology is
     migrated outward. The infrastructure provides reserve capability to exploit higher data
     rates once the technologies required become available in standard configurations. The
     ACN provides for increased capability in three ways:
         6.4.1.1. Ease of extension through connections with central or secondary
         components.
         6.4.1.2. Upgrade existing components to employ newer, more capable protocols.
         6.4.1.3. Inserting additional or higher capacity components at key points such as the
         routers, switches, cable plant, or firewall.
     6.4.2. Infrastructure Expansion. ACN infrastructure employs intermediate transfer nodes
     (ITN) and End Broadcast Nodes (EBN) linked with single and multi-mode fiber optic
     cable. Secondary, single and multi-mode fiber cabling connects the EBNs and some
     ITNs via alternate physical routes. Those rooms supporting, or expected to house, high
     concentrations of end node/user platforms are gridded to simplify network and
     production system growth. All cables terminate in patch panels or drop boxes. Patch
     cables are limited to connecting end equipment with infrastructure termination points.
     ACN cable installations within closets may provide all or part of the following types of
     connectivity: administrative, development, production, DMZ and external. VLANs are
     employed to separate administrative, development and production networks.
         6.4.2.1. New Infrastructure Requirements. The ACN design simplifies incorporating
         new systems or expanding the network’s scope to encompass external networks.
         Such new requirements are handled by installing additional media from the ACN
         primary transfer node (PTNs) to a central location in the expansion area or by
         connecting to ITNs for smaller systems. New external centers or systems involving a
         large number of users in a small area will be supported by cable grids.
         6.4.2.2. New cable is installed in accordance with ACN standards, labeled, and
         documented according to AFWAMAN 33-2. New networks to be built and
         incorporated into ACN will comply with ACN standards, while legacy networks are
         brought into compliance or replaced as resources permit.
26                                                          AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010


       6.4.3. Architecture Expansion and Upgrade. The ACN provides a high speed network
       integrating data communications for all current and future HQ AFWA systems.
       Production and data handling functions are separated from the administrative users to
       minimize broadcast interference. This design maximizes throughput by minimizing the
       number of subnets, network devices, and the data handling required. The MSC Chief
       coordinates architectural changes with the A6 during the planning phase and with the
       Offutt AFB NCC to ensure interoperability with the NCC. The ACN management suite
       is sized and configured to permit automated management of a large, dispersed network.
       This minimizes additional resources required to manage and maintain an expanded
       network.
          6.4.3.1. Vendors periodically release updated and improved software and firmware
          which may alter ACN architecture. These updates are validated in the test bed and
          approved in accordance with AFWAMAN 33-2 prior to implementation.
          6.4.3.2. As the need for new technologies is identified and validated by the TIM,
          cost-benefit analyses of implementing the technology are done at MSC Chief’s
          direction. A6, SEMS, and MSC personnel evaluate the viability and potential
          benefits. If the analyses are favorable, the MSC Chief directs an engineering analysis
          and development of an implementation plan in accordance with ACN test bed
          procedures.
       6.4.4. Planned System Upgrades. ACN planning is predicated on anticipated changes in
       requirements and technology. Planning includes expanded use of 40 gigabit or better and
       fiber channel technologies, improved network security and protection technologies and
       architectures, and the elimination of outdated and incompatible network hardware
       whenever possible. Near-term planning must focus on improved network security
       consistent with throughput requirements and the functional consolidation of
       communications capabilities delivered by various independent programs such as
       centralized management.
7. Prescribed Forms: There are no prescribed forms in this publication.

8. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                           JOHN D. MURPHY, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010                                                               27


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-115V1, Network Operations, 24 May 2006
AFI 33-138, Enterprise Network Operations Notification and Tracking, 28 November 2005
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management, 23 December 2008
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program: Controlling
Internal, Public and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 June 2000
AFMAN 33-223, Identification and Authentication, 29 July 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFWAMAN 33-2, AFWA Consolidated Network Configuration Management Plan, 8 February
2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CS—55th Communications Squadron
A2P2—Air Force Weather Annual Programming Plan
A5/8—Strategic Plans, Requirements, and Programs Directorate
A6—Communications and Information Directorate
A6OS—Information Assurance office
A5/8CE—Air Force Weather Agency Chief Engineer
ACL—Access Control List
ACN—Air Force Weather Agency Consolidated Network
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFNETOPs—Air Force Network Operations
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFWA—Air Force Weather Agency
AFWAMAN—Air Force Weather Agency Manual
Ao—Operational Availability
ATM—Asynchronous Transfer Mode
AUPE—Air Force Weather Agency Unclassified Production Environment
28                                                    AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010


CAT—Category
CAWC ORD—Centralized Aerospace Weather Capability Operational Requirements
Documents
CCR—Configuration Change Request
CM—Configuration Management
COTS—Commercial-Off-The-Shelf
DAA—Designated Approval Authority
DHCP—Dynamic Host Control Protocol
DMZ—Demilitarized Zone
DNS—Domain Name Server
DoD—Department of Defense
DPB—Air Force Weather Agency Manpower, Organization and Training Division
EBN—End Broadcast Nodes
E-mail——Electronic Mail
ESS—Enterprise Storage Solution
FC—Fiber Channel
FDDI—Fiber Distributed Data Interface
FE—Fast Ethernet
FE/c—Fast Ethernet over copper
FE/f—Fast Ethernet over fiber
FTP—File Transfer Protocol
GE—Gigabit Ethernet
GE/c—Gigabit Ethernet over copper
GE/f—Gigabit Ethernet over fiber
HOI—Headquarters Operating Instruction
HQ AFWA—Headquarters Air Force Weather Agency
IDS—Intrusion Detection System
INMON—Internet Monitoring
INOSC—E—Integrated Network Operations and Security Center, East
IP—Internet Protocol
ITN—Intermediate Transfer Node
LAN—Local Area Network
LRU—Line Replaceable Units
AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010                                       29


MB—Megabyte
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MSC—Mission Support Center
MTBCF—Mean Time Between Critical Failures
MTTRF—Mean Time To Restore Function
MTU—Maximum Transfer Unit
NCC—Network Control Center
NCOIC—Non-Commissioned Officer In Charge
NFS—Network File System
NIC—Network Interface Card
OJT—On-the-job Training
OSI—Open Systems Interconnect
OTDR—Optical Time Domain Reflectometry
PKE—Public Key Enabling
PM—Project Manager
POC—Point of Contact
PTN—Primary Transfer Node
RAS—Remote Access Servers
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SA—System Administrator
SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information
SCIF—SCI Facility
SDO—Systems Duty Officer
SEMS—Systems Engineering, Management, and Sustainment
SFTP—Secure File Transfer Protocol
SIPRNET—Secure Internet Protocol Routed Network
SLA—Service Level Agreement
SNMP—Simple Network Management Protocol
SSAA—System Security Authorization Agreement
SYO—2d Systems Operations Squadron Operations Flight Director
SYOO—2d Systems Operations Squadron System Operations Branch
T-1——T-carrier 1
30                                                       AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010


TCP—Transmission Control Protocol
TCP/IP—Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol
TIM—Technical Interchange Meeting
UASE—Unclassified Security Enclave
UDP—User Datagram Protocol
UTP—Unshielded Twisted Pair
VLAN—Virtual LAN
VPN—Virtual Private Network
WIMM—Weekly Implementation Maintenance Meeting
AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010                                                                      31


                                         Attachment 2
                  ACN TECHNICAL INTERCHANGE MEETING (TIM)

A2.1. Procedure Definition. A6 and MSC personnel conduct a periodic TIM to address issues
reviews or proposed changes to the ACN. This attachment summarizes current TIM procedures
and documents.
   A2.1.1. TIM Agenda. The MSC Chief publicizes the meeting via e-mail. The chief collects
   agenda items from the regular membership no later than close of business the Thursday prior
   to the meeting. The TIM Agenda maintains a standard item that allows open floor
   discussions allowing AFWA personnel the opportunity to address network related issues. In
   addition, the TIM Agenda always concludes with a review of the open TIM Action Items.
   AFWA personnel are encouraged to attend the meetings to address the membership during
   the open floor discussions regarding new topics or topics on which the TIM membership
   requires additional insight or expertise.
       A2.1.1.1. The TIM Agenda will be distributed at least 24 hours preceding the scheduled
       meeting.
       A2.1.1.2. The TIM Agenda lists the time and place of the scheduled meeting. In
       addition, the agenda lists the major topics for discussion along with supporting details
       and documentation references. As appropriate, the topics will reference open work
       tickets via the work order number. All topics are identified as new or tabled. Tabled
       topics list relevant information from previous meetings. The agenda is arranged to allow
       non-ACN personnel the opportunity to discuss their concerns at the beginning of the
       meeting. The agenda lists open action items with suspense date and personnel tasked.
A2.2. Topic Discussions. The new topics proposed to the TIM will be introduced and all
relevant questions/documentation will be addressed. The point of contact (POC) introducing the
topic will provide at least a draft of relevant documentation, including a work ticket and CCR, if
required, to the TIM chairperson prior to the meeting. Time permitting, a topic will be tabled for
one week to allow members time to review the topic, research the topic, and prepare
answers/questions.
A2.3. Topic Documentation. Topics for discussion will usually be accompanied by relevant
documentation. When appropriate, the recorder will collect soft copy documents and save those
to the shared storage area on the administration Local Area Network (LAN). The location of all
documents for a particular topic will be listed in the TIM Agenda. Specific examples of
documentation are:
   A2.3.1. Work Ticket. AFWA personnel requiring data communications support complete a
   work ticket and submit it through the requesting system’s SA to the MSC for approval.
   A2.3.2. Implementation Plan. The MSC Chief will direct MSC technicians or the SEMS
   contractor to develop formal plans for those efforts involving significant effort or which may
   result in support outages. For major new designs, SEMS will coordinate with the A6
   Engineers in developing this package. SEMS will provide these plans for formal review by
   the MSC Chief and subsequent TIM approval. Each plan includes the following sections:
32                                                          AFWAMAN33-1 13 APRIL 2010


       A2.3.2.1. Project Identification. Lists the CCR and work ticket numbers, as appropriate.
       Provides a verbal description of the project to include the required operational date.
       A2.3.2.2. Approval Block. Provides a blank for each of the following: SEMS Team
       Leader, MSC Chief, and approval date.
       A2.3.2.3. Design Description. Generic description of the work to be performed.
       A2.3.2.4. Design Steps. Lists the specific steps to accomplish the work.
       A2.3.2.5. Component Listing. Documents all components needed to complete the work.
       Components not maintained in bench stock are identified by cost and suggested supplier.
       A2.3.2.6. Coordination Steps. Lists the offices that need to be contacted prior to
       performing the work. This includes preparation of outage notification letters.
       A2.3.2.7. Government Work. Lists the work to be accomplished by the Government
       (e.g., IP address assignment—list actual IPs to be used, DNS configuration, etc).
       A2.3.2.8. Configuration Diagrams. Applicable before and after redline diagrams.
A2.4. TIM Documentation. The MSC Chief provides minutes of each meeting to include any
documentation supporting the meeting’s discussions. The MSC Chief publishes the minutes in
draft to the shared storage area on the administration LAN to attendees for review. TIM
members provide corrections to the TIM minutes as required prior to the next TIM at which time
the previous meeting’s minutes are reviewed and approved with any needed changes.
A2.5. Drawing Review. The MSC Chief convenes periodic meetings to review changes to
ACN baseline drawings in accordance with AFWAMAN 33-2. SEMS documents the results of
these meetings and forwards them to the next regular TIM for review. The TIM, in turn,
identifies needed changes and makes recommendations for the MSC Chief’s approval. The
recorder ensures all drawings are available for TIM review and, are available to MSC personnel.
