BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY
                                                                      INSTRUCTION 65-3

                                                                                 30 JUNE 2011

                                                                        Financial Management

                                                      AFWA UNFUNDED REQUIREMENTS
                                                                          PROCESS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFWA/A5R                                                         Certified by: AFWA/A5/8
                                                                        (Colonel John Shepley)
                                                                                      Pages: 14


This Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA) Instruction (AFWAI) prescribes responsibilities and
procedures for the unfunded requirements (UFR) process in AFWA. This instruction supports
the financial management processes set forth in AFWAI 65-1, Budget Management for
Operations. It applies to all organizations on and off Offutt AFB submitting UFRs to AFWA.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force
Reserve Command.

1. General. The objective of this publication is to establish responsibilities and procedures for
submitting, processing, and managing UFRs within AFWA.
2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. Director, AFWA Strategic Plans, Requirements, and Programs, (A5/8). A5/8 has
   overarching responsibility for management of AFWA’s UFR process and integration of
   prioritized UFR information into AFWA’s financial management and decision processes.
   A5/8 will:
2                                                                 AFWAI65-3 30 JUNE 2011


       2.1.1. Review all Operations and Maintenance (O&M) and Investment UFRs submitted
       by AFWA Directors/Group Commanders and System Program Offices (SPOs)
       supporting the Air Force Weather Service (AFWS) and forward them to the Operational
       Capability Requirements Division (A5R) for further review, processing, and inclusion in
       the UFR database. O&M is funded with 3400 funds and Investment is funded with either
       3080M, 3080A, or 3600 funds as appropriate.
       2.1.2. Review and approve the consolidated list of validated O&M UFRs compiled by
       A5R, containing A5R’s recommended prioritization, and distribute as necessary to
       members of the AFWA Council per AFWAI 65-1, see Attachment 1, Glossary of
       References and Supporting Information.
       2.1.3. Manage interaction with AF/A3O-WR regarding submission of candidate UFRs
       for designation as Headquarters Air Force (HAF) and Overseas Contingency Operations
       (OCO) UFRs.
    2.2. Directors/Group Commanders. AFWA Directors and Group Commanders are the
    single approval authority and gatekeeper for UFRs originated by their organizations and for
    this document will be referred to as the UFR submitter and will:
       2.2.1. Validate UFRs and indicate their recommended Operational Impact Category for
       O&M UFRs. (See Attachment 3 for category definitions).
       2.2.2. Ensure all UFRs they submit have executable strategies and timelines.
       2.2.3. Indicate relative priority among all the individual O&M UFRs that have the same
       operational impact category they have submitted for consideration.
       2.2.4. Forward validated and prioritized UFRs to the Director, AFWA Strategic Plans,
       Programs, and Requirements (A5/8).
    2.3. Divisions/Squadrons. AFWA Divisions and Squadrons submit UFR narratives using
    the template at Attachments 3 and 5 to their Director/Group Commander for validation.
    Periodically review UFRs, update or remove if no longer valid, and submit updated
    narratives or remove UFRs through their Director/Group Commander.
       2.3.1. Divisions/Squadrons should check with A8P to verify funding status in the
       Financial Plan before submitting Investment UFRs.
    2.4. SPOs supporting the AFWS. SPO Director; Product Support Manager (PSM); or
    System Support Manager (SSM), on behalf of their respective Program Manager (PM), may
    submit UFRs to AFWA in support of AFWS. Directors, PSMs, or SSMs will:
       2.4.1. Develop UFR narratives according to the templates in Attachments 3 and 5 and
       submit to A5/8 through the common organizational e-mail box and also inform the
       appropriate Lead Command Management Representative (LCMR) of UFR submission.
       2.4.2. Notify A5/8 of any changes to submitted UFRs through the common
       organizational e-mail box.
    2.5. Operational Capability Requirements Division (A5R). A5R manages the AFWA
    UFR process and makes operationally-based prioritization recommendations for O&M UFRs
    to A5/8. A5R will:
AFWAI65-3 30 JUNE 2011                                                                        3


     2.5.1. Manage the AFWA O&M and Investment UFR process.
        2.5.1.1. Quality control all UFR narratives received via A5/8:
            2.5.1.1.1. Review all UFR narratives for clarity and completeness, and
            recommend suggested modifications to the UFR narrative POC.
            2.5.1.1.2. For O&M UFRs, review the submitter’s Operational Impact Category
            with respect to Attachment 3, Section 2, and provide an A5R recommendation
            based on available knowledge of the operating environment, Commander’s intent,
            other programs and initiative, and sound reasoning. If A5R recommends a
            different Category than the submitter, the rationale for the disagreement will be
            provided in the UFR narrative.
        2.5.1.2. Post the UFR narrative to SharePoint for an executability (see definition in
        Glossary) review by the Strategic Plans Division (A8X) and Comptroller (FM), with
        support from Communications Plans Division (A6X), the Lead Command
        Management Division (A8F), and Programs Division (A8P) as needed. (See
        Attachment 2) A5R will collect and provide review comments back to narrative POC
        and info submitters.
        2.5.1.3. Add executable O&M UFRs to the consolidated O&M UFR list and
        prioritize the list based on A5R’s Recommended Operational Impact Category, and
        the submitter’s relative prioritization of their own UFRs. (See Attachment 2)
        2.5.1.4. Submit the consolidated and prioritized O&M UFR list to A5/8 for approval
        on a frequency directed by A5/8 to support AFWA Council activities.
        2.5.1.5. Remove O&M UFRs from the consolidated listing when informed by FM
        they have been funded, or when the requirement no longer exists.
     2.5.1.6. After end of fiscal year, return remaining O&M UFR narratives to submitter
     with option to re-validate and update for next fiscal year.
     2.5.2. Maintain this operating instruction and coordinate changes with the AFWA staff.
  2.6. Programs Division (A8P), Lead Command Management Division (A8F), and
  Communications Plans Division (A6X). These divisions support A5R in the review of
  O&M UFRs and Investment UFRs and will:
     2.6.1. When requested by FM or A8X, review UFRs in their respective programmatic
     portfolios to ensure executability. Those portfolios are: internal AFWA systems,
     including SEMS (A8P); SPO managed programs/systems (A8F); data flow systems
     (A6X).
     2.6.2. A8P will compare proposed investment UFRs to approved Financial Plan. If an
     UFR addresses a requirement that is funded in the Financial Plan, but is awaiting
     execution, then the UFR is not valid and should not be submitted.
  2.7. Comptroller (FM). FM will:
     2.7.1. Review and ensure O&M UFRs which fall under FM execution responsibility, are
     executable.
     2.7.2. Post all O&M UFRs that are not executed by A5/8 to the FM folder on SharePoint.
 4                                                                   AFWAI65-3 30 JUNE 2011


        2.7.3. Work with UFR submitter to modify narratives as appropriate.
        2.7.4. Notify A5R, A5/8, UFR narrative POC, and submitter when UFRs receive funding
        or if a previously funded UFR’s funding has been pulled back.
        2.7.5. Notify AFWA/DPB if funded UFR is for contracted manpower.
2.8. Strategic Plans Division (A8X) will:
        2.8.1. Review and ensure all Investment UFRs, and those O&M UFRs which fall under
        A5/8 execution responsibility, are executable.
        2.8.2. Post internal systems and fielded systems O&M UFRs to the A8X folder on
        SharePoint and all Investment UFRs to the Investment folder on SharePoint
        2.8.3. Work with narrative POC and info the UFR submitter to modify narratives as
        appropriate.
        2.8.4. Integrate all executable Investment UFRs into the Investment UFR list and
        maintain the list.
        2.8.5. Notify A5R and submitter when UFRs receive funding.
     2.9. Directorate/Group Resource Advisors (RAs). RAs will:
        2.9.1. Review all UFR narratives to be submitted from the Directorate/Group for
        executability.
        2.9.2. Compare O&M UFR to approved Financial Plan. If UFR addresses a requirement
        that is funded in the Financial Plan, but is awaiting distribution of funds, then the UFR is
        not valid and should not be submitted.
        2.9.3. Review previously submitted Directorate/Group UFRs to ensure funding amount,
        date required, and executability of the UFR are still valid. If there are changes, submit a
        revised UFR narrative through Director/Group Commander to A5/8.
           2.9.3.1. If there are no changes, notify A5R.




                                              ROBERT L. RUSSELL JR., Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
AFWAI65-3 30 JUNE 2011                                         5


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFWAI 65-1, Budget Management for Operations, 9 July 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
No forms are prescribed in this publication listed.
Adopted Forms
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFWA—Air Force Weather Agency
AFWAI—Air Force Weather Agency Instruction
AFWS—Air Force Weather Service
CME—Contract Manpower Equivalent
D&F—Determinations and Findings
EEIC—Element of Expense Investment Code
IAW—In accordance with
LCMR—Lead Command Management Representative
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OBAN—Operating Budget Account Number
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PEC—Program Element Code
POC—Point of Contact
PM—Program Manager
PSM—Product Support Manager
RA—Resource Advisor
RC/CC—Resource Center/Cost Center
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SEMS—Systems Engineering Management and Sustainment
SPO—System Program Office
SSM—System Support Manager
UFR—Unfunded Requirement
 6                                                                 AFWAI65-3 30 JUNE 2011


Terms
Executability──—Term describing the ability to conclude a financial transaction within the
context of numerous potential constraints. These constraints may include availability of an
appropriate contract vehicle or purchase mechanism, workload on contracting authorities with
respect to their timelines for the fiscal cycle, interdependencies among or within
projects/programs, compliance with acquisition rules/regulations, interagency timelines for
funding transfers, inability of vendor to complete work within specified timelines, inability to
execute a specific type of appropriated funds (e.g, 3080) for a planned acquisition, etc. This is
not meant to be an inclusive list of constraints impacting a UFR’s executability.
AFWAI65-3 30 JUNE 2011                                                                        7


                                       Attachment 2
                    O&M UNFUNDED REQUIREMENTS PROCESS

Figure A2.1. O&M Unfunded Requirements Process.




O&M Unfunded Requirements Process
1. O&M UFR Submission.
1.1. Project/program leads and action officers identifying a funding shortfall, draft UFR
narratives in accordance with (IAW) Attachment 3 and submit to their Division/Squadron/SPO
leadership.
1.2. Directorate/Group/SPO RA reviews UFR(s) to ensure financial information is correct and
the UFR(s) can be executed.
1.3. Directorate/Group/SPO RA sends UFR narratives to Directorate/Group/SPO Program
Manager for approval.
1.4. Directorate/Group/SPO Program Manager sends prioritized UFR narratives to A5/8.
1.5. A5/8 reviews and approves UFR narratives and forwards to A5R.
2. O&M UFR Review Process.
2.1. A5R reviews all UFR narratives.
2.1.1. A5R selects a recommended operational impact category for the UFR based on the
narrative.
 8                                                                   AFWAI65-3 30 JUNE 2011


2.1.2. If A5R’s recommended operational impact category differs from the submitter’s
recommendation, A5R must provide a rationale for the change in the UFR narrative.
2.1.3. A5R uploads the UFR narrative onto SharePoint in the A5/8 > A5R> Requirements
Library > UFR > FYxx UFR Folder.
2.2.1. Narratives that fall into the FM arena of responsibility will be moved to the FM folder and
those that fall under A5/8 will be moved to the A8X folder.
2.2.2. FM and A8X with support from A6X, A8F, and A8P as required, will evaluate whether
UFR is executable and provide feedback to A5R.
2.3. A5R will provide feedback to narrative POC and submitter on any changes that need to be
made to the narrative.
2.4. Submitter will make any necessary corrections to the narrative and resubmit to A5R via
A5/8.
2.5. A5R integrates all executable UFRs into an AFWA UFR list grouped by operational impact
category.
2.6. A5R sends recommended prioritized list of executable UFRs to A5/8 for approval.
3. O&M UFR Approval and Funding Process.
3.1. A5/8 sends approved prioritized UFR list to AFWA Council members.
3.2. AFWA Council reviews UFR list for funding authorization.
3.2.1. If a UFR is approved for funding, submitter is notified their UFR has received funding
and can be executed. A5R updates the UFR list and moves the UFR narrative to the Funded
folder on SharePoint.
3.2.2. If a UFR is removed by the AFWA Council, the submitter will be notified by A5R and
A5R will update the UFR list and the narrative will be moved to the Removed folder on
SharePoint.
4. O&M UFR Maintenance. A5R will update/refresh the prioritized UFR list and SharePoint
site as needed.
4.1 UFRs that remain after the end of the fiscal year will not automatically rollover onto the next
fiscal year O&M UFR list. A5R will return remaining UFR narratives to the submitter.
Submitter may update/revalidate then submit UFR for the next fiscal year following the above
O&M UFR process.
AFWAI65-3 30 JUNE 2011                                                                      9


                                       Attachment 3
                   O&M UNFUNDED REQUIREMENT NARRATIVE

FYXX O&M UNFUNDED REQUIREMENT NARRATIVE
Directorate/Group:
Directorate/Group Priority:
Title:
Requirement ($K):
Date Submitted:
Date Required:
PEC:
OBAN:
RC/CC:
EEIC:
Operational Impact Category: Survival Compliance Necessary                     Want

Submitter Recommendation

A5R Recommendation

Program Description: Give a brief description of the program supported.
Issue Needing Funding: Fully document and justify the requirement. Describe in detail what
you intend to purchase with the required dollars. What is the period of performance, if
applicable? How many? If you are purchasing hardware, have you purchased hardware for this
program within the last 12 months? If so, when and how much? Explain what generated the
unfunded status of the requirement. Is it an acceleration of a program or an unprogrammed,
unbudgeted, new requirement? Describe the impact on future years (will this create a bill for
future years?). If the requirement is for a new program managed by a Lead Command
Manager’s Representative (LCMR), the requirement must be forwarded to that LCMR for
review and submission.
Program and AF Weather Impact If Not Funded: Describe in detail the operational impacts to
the AFWS and any programmatic impacts (cost, schedule, management).
Warfighter Impact If Not Funded: Describe the mission impact to the warfighter.
Costing Source and Break Out: Fully describe the basis for your cost estimate.
Planned Execution Vehicle: How do you plan to execute the funds? Will it be executed via
Government Purchase Card, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request, AF Form 9, AF Form
616? Give full details of any contracts you plan to use. Will a Determinations & Findings
(D&F) be required?
Manpower Coordination: Required if unfunded is for additional labor hours, service type
activity, or increase in personnel.
Point of Contact: Name/Office Symbol/DSN#
 10                                                                AFWAI65-3 30 JUNE 2011



Instructions for Drafting O&M Unfunded Requirement Narrative
1. Narrative Particulars
1.1. Fill in the Directorate/Group that is submitting the UFR.
1.2. Identify the Directorate/Group priority of the UFR. Where does the Director/Group
Commander rank this UFR against all other Directorate/Group UFRs within the same operational
impact category?
1.3. Requirement. Cost in $K. [Whole thousands only, round up; FM does not reprogram in less
than $1,000 increments]
1.4. Date Submitted. Date UFR is being submitted.
1.5. Date Required. This is the date funding is needed in order to avoid a stop in operations,
meet full compliance with instruction/manual, or last date funding can be executed to satisfy the
UFR.
1.6. Program Element Code (PEC), Operating Budget Account Number (OBAN), Resource
Center/ Cost Center (RC/CC), Element of Expense Investment Code (EEIC). Enter the
appropriate data for each.
2. Operational Impact Category. Indicate whether the operational impact of UFR is Survival,
Compliance, Necessary, or Want.
2.1. Survival indicates that without funding, operations will stop. For example, breaks in
service.
2.2. Compliance indicates that funding is needed to bring the organization and/or program in
compliance with a particular service or departmental regulation (e.g., Information Assurance or
Safety issues) or meet obligations in a signed agreement (e.g., Memorandum of Agreement,
Memorandum of Understanding, or Interservice Support Agreement).
2.3. Necessary indicates funding is needed for something that is necessary for operations or to
take incremental steps toward new capabilities, but mitigation is available if funding is not
applied.
2.4. Want indicates a nice to have item or capability, such as furniture upgrade or an
enhancement to existing capability.
3. Program Description. Give a brief description of the program the UFR supports.
4. Issue Needing Funding. Fully document and justify the requirement. Describe in detail what
you intend to purchase with the required dollars. What is the period of performance, if
applicable? How many? If you are purchasing hardware, have you purchased hardware for this
program within the last 12 months? If so, when and how much? Explain what generated the
unfunded status of the requirement. Is it an acceleration of a program or an unprogrammed,
unbudgeted, new requirement? Describe the impact on future years (will this create a bill for
future years?). If the requirement is for a new program managed by a LCM, the requirement
must be forwarded to that LCM for review and submission. If the UFR is compliance, state the
governing regulation.
5. Program and AF Weather Impact If Not Funded: Describe in detail the operational impacts to
the AFWS and any programmatic impacts (cost, schedule, performance).
6. Warfighter Impact if Not Funded. Describe the mission impact to the warfighter.
7. Cost Sourcing and Break Out. Fully describe the basis for the cost estimate. Include what
components of the requirement, if any, may be funded if full funding is not approved.
8. Executability. How do you plan to execute the funds? Will it be executed via Government
Purchase Card, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request, AF Form 9, or AF Form 616? Give
AFWAI65-3 30 JUNE 2011                                                                         11


full details of any contracts you plan to use. Will a D&F be required? What is the drop-dead date
to execute?
9. Manpower Coordination. Required if unfunded is for additional labor hours, service type
activity, or increase in personnel (requires submission of AF IMT 4299, CME Computation
Worksheet, if funded).
10. Point of Contact. Name/Office Symbol/DSN# of person with whom A5R can discuss the
UFR narrative.
 12                                                                AFWAI65-3 30 JUNE 2011


                                         Attachment 4
                INVESTMENT UNFUNDED REQUIREMENTS PROCESS

Figure A4.1. Investment Unfunded Requirements Process.




Investment Unfunded Requirements Process
1. Investment UFR Submission
1.1. Program Managers and action officers identifying a funding shortfall, draft an UFR narrative
IAW Attachment 5 and submit to their Division/Squadron/SPO leadership.
1.2. Directorate/Group/SPO RA reviews UFR to ensure financial information is correct and the
UFR can be executed.
AFWAI65-3 30 JUNE 2011                                                                           13


1.3. Directorate/Group/SPO RA sends UFR narratives to Director/Group/SPO for approval.
1.4. Director/Group Commander/SPO sends UFR narratives to A5/8.
1.5. A5/8 validates received UFR narratives and sends them to A5R.
2. Investment UFR Review Process.
2.1. A5R reviews all UFR narratives.
2.1.1. A5R uploads the UFR narrative onto SharePoint in the A5/8 > A5R> Requirements
Library > UFR > FYxx folder.
2.2. A8P, A8F, A8X, and A6X review UFR narratives on the SharePoint site and evaluate
executability, providing feedback to narrative POC and submitter as required.
2.3. Submitter will make any necessary corrections to the narrative and resubmit the UFR.
2.4. A8X moves the narrative to the Investment folder on SharePoint and integrates UFR into
the Investment UFR list.
3. Investment UFR Maintenance. A8X will update/refresh the Investment UFR list and
SharePoint site as needed.
3.1. A5/8 sends approved prioritized UFR list to AFWA Council members.
3.2. AFWA Council reviews UFR list for funding authorization.
3.2.1. If a UFR is approved for funding, submitter is notified their UFR has received funding
and can be executed. A5R updates the UFR list and moves the UFR narrative to the Funded
folder on SharePoint.
3.2.2. If a UFR is removed by the AFWA Council, the submitter will be notified by A5R and
A5R will update the UFR list and the narrative will be moved to the Removed folder on
SharePoint.
4. O&M UFR Maintenance. A5R will update/refresh the prioritized UFR list and SharePoint
site as needed.
4.1 UFRs that remain after the end of the fiscal year will not automatically rollover onto the next
fiscal year O&M UFR list. A5R will return remaining UFR narratives to the submitter.
Submitter may update/revalidate then submit UFR for the next fiscal year following the above
O&M UFR process.
 14                                                              AFWAI65-3 30 JUNE 2011


                                        Attachment 5
           FYXX INVESTMENT UNFUNDED REQUIREMENT NARRATIVE

Directorate/GSU/SPO:
Title:
Requirement ($K):
Date Submitted:
Date Required:
PEC:
BPAC:
EEIC:
Program Description: Give a brief description of the program supported.
Issue Needing Funding: Fully document and justify the requirement. Describe in detail what
you intend to purchase with the required dollars. What is the period of performance, if
applicable? How many? If you are purchasing hardware, have you purchased hardware for this
program within the last 12 months? If so, when and how much? Explain what generate the
unfunded status of the requirement. Is it an acceleration of a program or an unprogrammed,
unbudgeted, new requirement? Describe the impact on future years (will this create a bill for
future years?). If the requirement is for a new program or project, the requirement must be
forwarded to the PM or AFWA/CC, as appropriate, for validation before submission to AFWA
A5/8.
Program and AF Weather Impact If Not Funded: Describe in detail the operational impacts to
the AFWS and any programmatic impacts (cost, schedule, management).
Warfighter Impact If Not Funded: Describe the mission impact to the warfighter.
Costing Source and Break Out: Fully describe the basis for your cost estimate.
Planned Execution Vehicle: How do you plan to execute the funds? Will it be executed via
Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request, AF Form 9, or AF Form 616? Give full details of
any contracts you plan to use. Will a D&F be required?
Manpower Coordination: Required if unfunded is for additional labor hours, service type
activity, or increase in personnel.
Point of Contact: Name/Office Symbol/DSN#
Drafting Investment Unfunded Requirement Narrative
Follow same procedures as in Attachment 3 (with the exception of section 2). Use this
attachment as a template.
