BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY
AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY                                              INSTRUCTION 36-3

                                                                          6 SEPTEMBER 2011
                                                                  Certified Current 6 June 2013
                                                                                      Personnel

                                                                        CIVILIAN OVERTIME


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFWA/DPC                                                            Certified by: AFWA/DP
                                                                         (Mrs. Deborah McGary)
Supersedes:    AFWAI 36-3, 1 October                                                     Pages: 5
               2008


This Instruction establishes procedures on how to account for civilian overtime work. It applies
to all Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA) Offutt AFB employees and geographically separated
units (GSUs) civilian employees. It defines responsibilities for supervisors and civilian
employees in the administration of overtime pay and compensatory time as compensation for
overtime work. This publication requires the collection and maintenance of information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a). System of records notice F065 AF A,
Time and Attendance Feeder Records (October 14, 2003, 68 FR 59167) applies. This Instruction
implements Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR); AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily
Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, and Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). In
addition to the authorities listed above that authorize collection and maintenance of the records
prescribed in this publication, Executive Order 9397 applies. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms
847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This publication does
not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve Command.
 2                                                          AFWAI36-3 6 SEPTEMBER 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Minor editorial changes made to reflect new office symbols in accordance with AFWA
organizational structure. Deleted all references to the National Security Personnel System
(NSPS) (paragraphs 3 & 4).
1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. AFWA Vice Commander (AFWA/CV). AFWA/CV is the approving official (for
     overtime pay) on the AF IMT 428. AFWA/CV may designate approval of overtime requests
     to directors/commanders as deemed appropriate. Directors/group commanders can approve
     compensatory time.
     1.2. Comptroller (AFWA/FM). AFWA's comptroller is the certifying official on the AF
     IMT 428.
     1.3. Supervisors. Supervisors will initiate an AF IMT 428 before the start of the pay period
     (whenever possible), for approval of overtime, holiday premium pay and compensatory time
     and will work within their chain of command to ensure group/directorate approval process is
     followed. Supervisors will ensure group/directorate notification process is followed when an
     employee’s accumulated compensatory time exceeds 40 hours. Supervisors will monitor
     compensatory time off hours to recommend employees use hours within 26 pay periods if
     possible.
     1.4. Employee. Employees are responsible for accurately reporting deviations to their tour
     of duty for timekeeping purposes. Employees will follow procedures IAW AFI 36-815,
     Absence and Leave, in requesting and obtaining approval for deviations in their tour of duty.
     Employees will document deviations to their tour of duty by using an Office of Personnel
     Management Form (OPM) 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence or by annotating
     the timesheet.
     1.5. Timekeeper. Timekeepers are responsible for timely and accurate entry into the
     timekeeping system. Timekeepers ensure that all entries on the timesheet for overtime and
     compensatory time have been approved and will maintain records associated with time and
     attendance in accordance with the approved Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.
2. Overtime Work:
     2.1. Regular Overtime Work. Regularly scheduled overtime work is overtime which is
     scheduled in advance of the week in which it is worked. Regularly scheduled overtime work
     is always paid at the employee’s overtime rate except that employees who work flexible (not
     compressed) schedules may choose compensatory time in lieu of payment.
     2.2. Irregular or Occasional Overtime Work. Irregular or occasional overtime is overtime
     which is worked in the same week in which it is authorized and is payable at the employee's
     overtime rate. Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) non-exempt employees and any FLSA
     exempt employee earning less than the maximum for GS-10 may elect compensatory time
     but may not be required to take it in lieu of overtime pay.
     2.3. Request and Document Overtime. Overtime is requested and documented on AF IMT
     428. After it is approved and returned, it will be maintained with the timecard until
     Government Audit Organization audit or until 6 years old, whichever is soonest.
AFWAI36-3 6 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                    3


3. Computation of Overtime Pay:
   3.1. GS Employees Exempt from the FLSA Earning Less Than GS-10, Step 10. Rate of pay
   will be 1.5 times their hourly rate, up to the rate of the GS-10, Step 1 or employee's hourly
   rate times 1.0, whichever is greater. (Employees can choose between overtime pay and
   compensatory time.)
   3.2. GS Employees Exempt from the FLSA Earning More Than GS-10, Step 10. Rate of
   pay will be employee's hourly rate times 1.0. (Management may dictate overtime pay or
   compensatory time.)
   3.3. GS Employee Nonexempt from the FLSA. The payable overtime rate is calculated as
   the employee's hourly adjusted rate of pay multiplied by 1.5. (Employees can choose
   between overtime pay and compensatory time.)
   3.4. Limitations of premium pay (overtime pay) are outlined in Title 5, United States Code
   (U.S.C.) 5547.
   3.5. Determination of FLSA can be found on employee’s Standard Form (SF) 50, block 35.
4. Compensatory Time:
   4.1. Compensatory Time. Compensatory time is defined as an equivalent amount of
   compensatory time off for overtime work performed in lieu of overtime pay.
   4.1.1. Directed Compensatory Time. Supervisors have the authority to direct compensatory
   time in lieu of overtime pay for an employee whose basic rate of pay exceeds the maximum
   rate           for          GS-10.                    See          paragraph             3.2.
   4.1.2. Non-directed Compensatory Time. Supervisors may not require compensatory time in
   lieu of overtime pay for an employee whose basic rate of pay does not meet the maximum
   rate for GS-10 employees. Compensatory time is at the employee’s request. See paragraph
   3.3.
   4.1.3. Using Compensatory Time Off. Compensatory time off must be requested in advance
   and approved by the immediate supervisor. Compensatory time off may be documented on
   OPM Form 71 and maintained with the time cards or annotated on the timesheet. Air Force
   policy states that compensatory time must be used within 26 pay periods or it will be paid at
   the overtime rate in which it was earned.




                                           ROBERT L. RUSSELL, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 4                                                      AFWAI36-3 6 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                      ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References:
Title 5, United States Code (U.S.C.) 5547
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances
AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule
Prescribed Forms: OPM Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence
AF IMT 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time.
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2842, Department of Defense Public Key Infrastructure Certificate of Acceptance and
Acknowledgement of Responsibilities

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CFR—Code of Federal Regulation
CV—Vice Commander
FLSA—Fair Labor Standards Act
FM—Comptroller
GS—General Schedule
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HQ AFWA—Headquarters, Air Force Weather Agency
IMT—Information Management Tool
OI—Operating Instruction
OPM—Office of Personnel Management

Terms:
Supervisor.—An employee with authority to hire, direct, assign, promote, reward, transfer,
suspend, discipline, or remove employees.
Employee.—An officer or an individual appointed by civil service, engaged in the performance
of a Federal function under authority of law or executive act and supervised by same.
Timekeeper.—An individual tasked with the responsible for timely and accurate entry into the
timekeeping system.
AFWAI36-3 6 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                5


Overtime Hours.—All hours in excess of 8 hours in a day or 40 hours in a week which are
officially ordered and approved by management, performed by the employee, and meet the
criteria for being considered “hours of work” under the provisions of 5 CFR, Part 610 or the
Fair Labor Standards Act, but do not include credit hours.
Flexible Work Schedule.—A work schedule that splits the basic work requirement into two
distinct kinds of time: core hours and flexible hours. Under any flexible work schedule, an
employee must be at work during core hours and must account for the total number of hours
scheduled to work.
