                                     97 AMW Commander’s
                              Environmental, Safety and Occupational
                                    Health Management Vision
                                        SUBJECT: Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Management System (ESOHMS) Vision

                                        1. Altus Air Force Base is committed to conducting its mission in a safe and environmentally responsible manner that will protect human
                                        health, natural resources and the environment. In doing so, we will comply with all environmental, safety and occupational health laws and
                                        regulations applicable to the conduct of our mission, with other requirements to which the installation subscribes, and strive for continual
                                        improvement. This commitment goes beyond compliance with the law and strives to operationalize the integration of sound environmental,
                                        safety and occupational health practices into our daily decisions and activities. We have in the past, and will continue in the future, to
                                        pursue a course of responsible environmental stewardship and continuous process improvement in our environmental, safety and
                                        occupational health programs in our efforts to operationalize environmental management.

                                        2. In support of our environmental vision, we shall:

                                               a. Maintain an effective Environmental Management System, promote the use of safe technologies and operating practices, remain
                                        ready to respond to emergencies in order to improve our environmental, safety and occupational health performance and minimize adverse
                                        impacts to installation workers, their families and the environment.

                                              b. Set ESOH goals, measure progress through internal and external inspection and audits, take corrective action when necessary,
                                        and communicate results and other environmental information regarding the installation's operations and its environmental, safety and
                                        occupational health accomplishments to workers and the community.

                                              c. Investigate and evaluate new and innovative technologies and practices, establish and implement an effective pollution prevention
                                        program, minimize the generation of wastes, recycle materials otherwise destined to become waste when possible and dispose of any
WILLIAM A. SPANGENTHAL, Colonel, USAF   remaining wastes in an environmentally responsible manner.
Commander
                                                d. Ensure the responsible use of energy throughout the installation, including the adoption of innovative practices and procedures
                                        that will conserve energy and improve energy efficiency.

                                               e. Provide regular operation-specific environmental, safety and occupational health performance reviews and assessments and
                                        address the review of environmental Objectives and Targets annually plus develop management action plans to address actual or potential
                                        noncompliance/nonconformance situations.

                                              f. Provide world-class safety and health programs with a performance focus by implementing the Occupational Safety and Health
                                        Administration Voluntary Protection Program.

                                               g. Operationalize the ESOHMS Vision to the point that it becomes an integral part of our daily routines.

                                        3. This vision applies to all 97 AMW personnel. We will communicate and integrate this program using procedures outlined in our
                                        Environmental Management System (EMS) Plan and Procedures.


    ALTUSAFBVA32-7001, 15 November 2013                     RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication                       OPR: 97 CES/CEIEC
