BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           ALTUS AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 11-1001
ALTUS AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                          15 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                               Flying Operations

                                                                  FUNCTIONAL CHECK
                                                    FLIGHT/OPERATIONAL CHECK FLIGHT
                                                                        PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 97 OG/OGV                                               Certified by: 97 OG/CC (Col Ted A.
                                                                                      Detwiler)
                                                                                       Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures.
This instruction outlines responsibilities and establishes procedures for Functional Check Flights
(FCF) and Operational Check Flights (OCF). It applies to all operation activity and personnel
assigned to Altus AFB to include active duty Air Force personnel, civilian personnel, and
Reserve personnel attached to the 97 AMW. See Attachment 1 for Glossary of References and
Supporting Information. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. NOTE: Ensure all records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at:
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. Functional Check Flights.
   1.1. Director of Maintenance responsibilities.
       1.1.1. Director of Maintenance will determine if an FCF flight is required and will
       coordinate with the 97 OG FCF program manager (Chief, 97 OG/OGV).
   1.2. OG responsibilities.
       1.2.1. The Chief, 97 OG Standardization and Evaluation, serves as the OIC of the OG
       FCF program.
 2                                                      ALTUSAFBI11-1001 15 November 2011


        1.2.2. The 97 AMW does not maintain FCF qualified aircrews. If an FCF or High Speed
        Taxi Check is required, the FCF OIC will coordinate with the appropriate off base agency
        for a qualified FCF crew to conduct the flight and will brief the OG/CC prior to the FCF.
        1.2.3. The FCF pilot in command will contact maintenance quality assurance (QA)
        personnel for a FCF briefing prior to the flight.
        1.2.4. Following the FCF, the pilot in command will debrief maintenance QA personnel.
        QA will then brief the 97 OG/CC, 97 OG/OGV, and squadron operations supervision
        about the results of the flight.
2. Operational Check Flights (KC-135 Only).
     2.1. Director of Maintenance responsibilities.
        2.1.1. Director of Maintenance will determine if an OCF is required and then coordinate
        with 97 OSS/OSO in accordance with the procedures outlined in the Wing Operations
        Plan.
     2.2. OG responsibilities.
        2.2.1. Current Operations will identify the need for an OCF crew to the appropriate
        squadron scheduling flight and inform both the OG/CC and OG/OGV of the requirement
        and flight details.
        2.2.2. Operations officers will ensure only highly qualified crewmembers conduct the
        OCF.
        2.2.3. Student training will not be conducted on OCFs. EXCEPTION: If the OCF is
        solely for a KC-135 air-refueling boom, student training may be conducted on the sortie
        but a qualified 97 AMW boom operator will conduct the OCF boom requirements prior
        to student training. OCFs should not be scheduled against any check ride sorties.
        2.2.4. The OCF pilot in command will contact maintenance QA personnel for an OCF
        briefing prior to the flight (97 AMW/MXQ, x5754). This briefing will cover what
        maintenance actions were taken and which items will be checked during the OCF. The
        pilot in command will brief the OCF crew on the maintenance actions taken, items to be
        checked, and the maneuvers to be flown during the OCF.
        2.2.5. The OCF will be conducted in accordance with the applicable MDS technical
        orders and operating instructions. Crew members will comply with standard T.O.
        procedures and checklists in accomplishing the OCF. Crew members will not perform
        non-standard maneuvers during the OCF in order to check aircraft systems unless
        specifically requested by MX and coordinated with 97 OG/OGV and the request will not
        jeopardize safety or contradict T.O. procedures.
            2.2.5.1. The 97 OG/CC does not certify Altus crew members in FCF procedures due
            to the extremely limited number of FCFs required at Altus and the impact on student
            training. OCF crewmembers are not authorized to accomplish any T.O. 1-C[MDS]-
            6CF-1 procedures. All maneuvers performed will be IAW normally issued T.O.s and
            directives. If there are any questions, contact OGV.
            2.2.5.2. KC-135 OCFs following major maintenance or removal and replacement of
            ailerons, elevator, rudder, vertical stabilizer or horizontal stabilizer will be performed
ALTUSAFBI11-1001 15 November 2011                                                           3


        paying special attention to T.O. preflight items that deal with flight controls. There
        will be two highly qualified FTU instructor pilots in the pilot seats during a flight
        control OCF. No student training will be scheduled/conducted during a flight control
        OCF.
        2.2.5.3. KC-135 OCFs following major maintenance or removal and replacement of
        air refueling boom or air refueling boom power control units (PCU) will be
        performed paying special attention to boom system preflight checklist items and the
        boom controllability check (step 17 of Boom Operator Air Refueling checklist).
        There must be one highly qualified FTU instructor pilot in the seat and one highly
        qualified FTU instructor boom operator at the controls during the boom OCF. The
        other pilot may be a student. Student boom training is allowed after the OCF is
        successfully completed and the instructor boom and instructor pilot agree that the
        boom system is operating normally.
     2.2.6. OCFs should normally be conducted in daylight, VMC conditions. The aircraft
     commander is the final determination on whether reduced visibility conditions will allow
     a proper check out of all systems involved.
     2.2.7. Following the FCF, the pilot in command will debrief maintenance QA personnel.
     QA will then brief the 97 OG/CC, 97 OG/OGV, and squadron operations supervision
     about the results of the flight.




                                         ANTHONY B. KRAWIETZ, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander, 97th Air Mobility Wing
 4                                                   ALTUSAFBI11-1001 15 November 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures
AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
T.O. 1-1-300, Acceptance/Functional Check Flight and Maintenance Operational Checks
T.O. 00-20-(applicable series), General Aircraft Maintenance Technical Orders
AFI 11-2 (applicable series) V3, Aircraft Operations Procedures
MOI 21-118, Functional Check Flight/Operational Check Flight Program
T.O. 1-C[MWS]-6CF-1
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 29 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
FCF—Functional Check Flight
IAW—In Accordance With
MDS—Mission Design Series
OCF—Operational Check Flight
OG—Operations Group
OG—Operations Group Standardization and Evaluation
OIC—Officer in Charge
OSS/OSO—Operations Support Squadron/Current Operations
TO—Technical Order
VMC—Visual Meteorological Conditions

Terms
Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC)—Meteorological conditions in which visual flight
rules apply; expressed in terms of visibility, ceiling height, and aircraft clearance from clouds
along the path of flight. When these criteria do not exist, instrument meteorological conditions
prevail and instrument flight rules must be complied with.
