BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 ALTUS AFB INSTRUCTION 48-104
97TH AIR MOBILITY WING (AETC)
                                                                             15 OCTOBER 2009

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                           WRITTEN WORKPLACE HAZARD
                                                              COMMUNICATION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the 97 CS web page at:
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=-1618039. If you lack access,
contact the Publications Management office.

RELEASIBILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 97 MDOS/SGOPJ (Maj Shelley)                                      Certified by: 97 MDG/CC
                                                                           (Col Cheryl Gregorio)
Supersedes ALTUSAFBI 48-101, 15 Aug 00                                                Pages: 12


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medicine
Program, Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-8, Environmental, Safety and Occupational
Health Program and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-821, Hazard Communication, at Altus AFB.
It applies to all personnel assigned to the 97th Air Mobility Wing and subordinate units, and
personnel assigned or attached to, or supported by, Altus AFB. This instruction is consistent
with AFI 90-821 and 29 CFR 1910.1200, Hazard Communication. NOTE: Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES: This instruction has been significantly revised and must be
completely reviewed. Changes to office symbols (para 4.) and placing primary responsibility for
hazard communication training and worker awareness on the work area/shop supervisor (para 4.).
Adds Attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting Information.

TABLE OF CONTENTS:

1. Purpose                                                                                       2

2. Scope                                                                                         2

3. Hazard Communication Program                                                                  2

4. Responsibilities                                                                              3
2                                                      ALTUSAFBI48-104 15 OCTOBER 2009



5. Material Safety Data Sheets                                                                  7

6. Employee Education and Training                                                              8

7. Hazardous Chemical Inventory                                                                 8

8. Chemical Product Labeling                                                                    9

9. Non-Routine Tasks Involving Chemical Products                                                9

Attachment 1                                                                                   11

1. Purpose. Hazardous chemicals are found in virtually every Air Force operation, including
aircraft and missile maintenance, civil engineering, transportation, supply, medical, and support
functions. This Altus Air Force Base Instruction (AAFBI) is intended to minimize the incidence
of chemically-induced occupational illnesses and injuries in the workplace by establishing
guidance for training employees on the health and physical hazards associated with using or
handling hazardous chemicals in work area/shop(s) and proper preventive measures to be taken.
This program is commonly referred to as the Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program, and
is not to be confused with other separate and distinct entities such as Hazardous Waste
Operations and Emergency Response (HAZWOPER) and the Hazardous Materials (HAZMAT)
Management Program (HMMP). HAZCOM is a performance-based program with separate
training requirements and successful implementation can only be measured by evaluating worker
awareness of work area/shop hazards.

2. Scope. This instruction provides the requirements for an effective Air Force HAZCOM
Program at Altus AFB to include those work area(s) and shop(s) that have workers who handle
or use hazardous chemicals. All employees that work in an environment where any chemical is
known to be present in such a manner that employees may be exposed under normal conditions
of use or in a foreseeable emergency, will be provided information about the hazardous
chemicals to which they may be exposed. This information shall be provided by means of a
hazard communication program, including but not limited to Material Safety Data Sheets
(MSDS), labels, and other forms of warning, and information (e.g. AF Form 3952,
Chemical/Hazardous Material Request/Authorization Forms, Bioenvironmental Engineering
shop survey letters, etc.) and training.

3. Hazard Communication Program. This written program provides information specific to
the implementation of AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, at Altus AFB. A workplace written
hazardous communication program will be maintained at each work area where hazardous
chemicals are stored, used or handled and will include the following:

3.1. A copy of this written workplace plan to include a copy of AFI 90-821 as Attachment 1.

3.2. The work area hazardous chemical inventory as Attachment 2.

3.3. List of the non-routine tasks involving hazardous materials as Attachment 3.
   ALTUSAFBI48-104 15 OCTOBER 2009                                                             3



3.4. List of MSDS as described below in section 5 and how MSDS are/will be accessible to
employees.

4. Responsibilities: As defined by AFI 90-821.

4.1. Wing/Installation Commanders are ultimately responsible for all aspects of the installation
HAZCOM program. Commanders will:

4.1.1. Ensure that the HAZCOM program is prepared, implemented, and its effectiveness
assessed in work area/shops where hazardous chemicals are stored, used or handled.

4.1.2. Ensure supervisors and employees who handle, use, or are potentially exposed to
hazardous materials in the course of official Air Force duties are provided information and
training on the AF HAZCOM program and the specific hazards in their work area/shops,
according to Para. 2.7. of AFI 90-821.

4.1.3. Ensure supervisors of work area/shops, where hazardous chemicals are used or handled,
prepare and implement a work area/shop-specific HAZCOM program.

4.1.4. Ensure the Installation HAZMAT Management Program (IHMP) and Hazardous Material
Pharmacies (HAZMART) outside of Logistics Supply (LRS) meet AF HAZCOM program
requirements.

4.2. Installation Public Health:

4.2.1. Serve as a consultant for training matters on the AF Hazard Communication Program for
work area/shop supervisors.

4.2.2. Review shop-specific hazardous communications training programs for technical accuracy
and completeness prior to implementation.

4.3. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BEE):

4.3.1. Provide technical expertise to work area/shops on potential health hazards, training
requirements, and regulatory requirements (OSHA expanded standards) associated with
hazardous chemicals.

4.3.2. Develop and publish installation written HAZCOM guidance in accordance with
Para. 2.3. of Air Force Instruction 90-821. This installation guidance will serve as a basic
component for all work area/shop HAZCOM programs where workers may be potentially
exposed to hazardous chemicals.

4.3.3. Assist Commanders and work area/shop supervisors by providing specific
implementation/compliance and technical guidance on the AF HAZCOM program.

4.3.3.1. Assess effectiveness of worker HAZCOM program training, including work area/shop
level training, according to Para. 2.7.5. of AFI 90-821.
4                                                       ALTUSAFBI48-104 15 OCTOBER 2009



4.3.3.2. Assess work area/shop compliance with the AF HAZCOM program prescribed in this
instruction.

4.3.4. Request from manufacturers, as needed, portions of a MSDS designated by the
manufacturer as a trade secret, and send proprietary MSDS information to AFIOH for
incorporation into the Hazardous Material Information Resource System (HMIRS) Limited
Rights (LR) version. A sample request letter is provided in Attachment 2 of Air Force
Instruction 90-821.

4.3.5. Advise installation work area/shops and personnel on labeling of hazardous chemical
containers.

4.3.6. Review and approve (as appropriate) work area/shop AF Form 3952 requests/authorizations
in accordance with AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, prior to adding the new
authorizations to the work area/shop hazardous chemical inventories. Periodically review the
hazardous chemical inventory in conjunction with routine shop surveillance or through an
automated Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Management Information System
(ESOH-MIS).

4.3.7. Provide hazard communication advice to the Installation Contracting Office, upon request,
to assist in ensuring all contracts include hazardous material identification and data requirements.

4.3.8. Request copies of, or contractor access to, the HMIRS when asked to do so by the
Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) for use by a contractor’s health and safety
representative.

4.4. The LRS Commander (LRS/CC) will:

4.4.1. Ensure HAZMART develops sufficient guidance on receipt of hazardous materials with
specific instructions to ensure compliance with all labeling directives found in Para. 2.6. of
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, and other applicable instructions.

4.4.2. Ensure HAZMARTs obtain MSDS for hazardous materials they receive.

4.4.3. Ensure all hazardous chemicals are properly labeled prior to initial issue.

4.4.4. For each first-time receipt (MSDS not already loaded into the HMIRS) of hazardous
materials or, whenever chemical constituents or manufacturer change, provide a copy, preferably
electronic, of the MSDS to the MSDS technical focal point at AFIOH for inclusion into HMIRS.

4.5. Installation Contracting Officer:

4.5.1. Ensure all contracts through which the Air Force locally procures hazardous materials
contain AF Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplements (AFFARS) clause 5352.223.9002
“Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data,” or a subsequently adopted
equivalent provision.
   ALTUSAFBI48-104 15 OCTOBER 2009                                                           5



4.5.2. Ensure contract specifications require contractors who use hazardous chemicals that Air
Force military or civilian workers may be exposed to, provide the information required in AF
FAR clause 5352.223.9002 "Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data Sheet,”
or subsequently adopted equivalent provision, to the pertinent Air Force work area/shop
supervisor. Additionally, ensure contracts include a requirement for securing all hazardous
materials left on site at the end of the work shift or day.

4.5.3. Conduct a pre-performance conference to advise contractors of the hazardous chemicals
used in Air Force operations their employees may encounter during the contract. Provide
contractors information on hazards and AF protective measures identified, where and how
relevant MSDS information is available, and information on the hazardous materials labeling
system.

4.5.3.1. The Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO), (97 CONS/ LGCA, LGCB, LGCC,
LGCP at 481-7320), with assistance from the IHMP, (97 CES/CEAN in Bldg 358 at 481-7156),
BEE (97 MDOS SGOPJ at 481-5494/5495), and work area supervisor/customer, if requested,
will advise contractors of hazardous chemicals they may encounter and protective measures
needed in the normal course of their work in this work area. The ACO will also inform the
contractor that MSDS information is available through the IHMP, who will provide information
on the labeling system.

4.5.4. At the pre-performance conference and subsequently during the contract performance
period, the requiring activity quality assurance evaluator will advise work area/shop supervisors
and Air Force employees monitoring the performance of contractors of any hazardous chemicals
introduced by the contractor.

4.6. Squadron/Unit Level Commanders and Supervisors:

4.6.1. Squadron/Unit Commanders will provide a safe and healthy work environment and ensure
all assigned personnel are familiar with the hazardous materials within the work area/shop,
understand appropriate ways to manage risk associated with hazardous materials in the work
area/shop, and provide the resources to maintain an effective HAZCOM program within work
area/shops under their control where hazardous chemicals are stored, used or handled. Squadron
Commanders, or their designated representatives, shall approve written work area/shop-specific
training prior to implementation in the work area/shop, as required. Supervisors shall know the
location of MSDS and training materials for chemicals stored, used or handled in their work area.
BEE should be contacted for help in determining the necessity/requirements for a workplace
HAZCOM program.

4.6.2. Work Area/Shop Supervisors are responsible for hazard communication in their work
area/shops, but may designate an alternate to assist in daily program execution. When hazardous
materials are stored, used or handled in the workplace, work area/shop supervisors and their
HAZCOM program designee will:
6                                                       ALTUSAFBI48-104 15 OCTOBER 2009


4.6.2.1. Obtain HAZCOM program training and assure all elements of HAZCOM training are
conducted IAW paragraph 2.7.2.1. through 2.7.2.2. of Air Force Instruction 90-821. Supervisors
shall contact Public Health at 481-5359 for assistance in finding a suitable source for training.

4.6.2.2. Implement all elements of the AF HAZCOM program in their work areas as described in
Chapter 2 of AFI 90-821.

4.6.2.3. Ensure assigned personnel are trained in the AF HAZCOM program as described in
Chapter 2 of AFI 90-821. Training will be conducted by the work area/shop supervisor or
another workplace designee selected by the supervisor.

4.6.2.4. Ensure newly assigned personnel are trained on the types of hazardous materials in their
work area at the time of their initial assignment prior to potential exposure to hazardous
materials. Ensure personnel receive additional training when a uniquely different type of
hazardous material, with different hazardous properties, is introduced into their work area.

4.6.2.5. In accordance with AFI 91-301, AF Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire
Protection and Health Program, document the HAZCOM program training and all supplemental
hazard communication training of assigned personnel on AF Form 55, Employee Safety and
Health Record, or in the Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) or the AF ESOH-MIS.
This information shall be accessible electronically or in hard copy.

4.6.2.6. Develop and maintain a work area/shop-specific HAZCOM written program including a
copy of the installation written HAZCOM program described in Para. 2.3., and work area/shop
specific program elements defined in paras. 2.5. through 2.9. of AFI 90-821.

4.6.2.7. Implement AF HAZCOM program requirements for contractors in AF work area/shops
as provided in Para. 2.10. of AFI 90-821.

4.6.2.8. Maintain or have access to an inventory of all hazardous materials used in the work area/
shop and maintain or have access to MSDS for these materials inventory. At least annually,
reconcile MSDS on file (if files outside of HMIRS and ESOH-MIS are maintained) and the work
area/shop hazardous chemical inventory. Review dates must be documented either on the
MSDS’s or in some other format.

4.6.2.9. Ensure all routine and non-routine work tasks are thoroughly described to include
associated hazards and controls. This description can be in the form of Technical Orders (TO),
Job Safety Analyses (JSA), BEE survey letters, Operating Instructions (OI) or specific task lists.

4.6.2.10. Conduct additional hazard communication training on contaminants as required by
OSHA expanded standards such as asbestos, benzene, lead, etc. Refer to BEE survey letters to
identify if expanded standards apply in a work area/shop.

4.7. Fire and Emergency Services: Provide technical expertise to work with area/shop
supervisors on potential fire hazards, make recommendations to work with area/shop supervisors
regarding fire-prevention controls, storage and handling to minimize or eliminate potential fire
and explosion hazards.
   ALTUSAFBI48-104 15 OCTOBER 2009                                                              7



4.8. Tenant Units: Tenant units will participate in the AF HAZCOM program conducted by
their host installation.

4.9. Laboratories: Laboratories are primarily governed by AFOSH Standard 48-22,
Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Chemicals in Laboratories. Laboratories are not required
to establish a written HAZCOM program or maintain a chemical inventory. This standard
applies only to laboratories as follows:

4.9.1. MSDS received must be maintained.

4.9.2. Labels on in-coming containers must be maintained.

4.9.3. Workers must be trained on the hazards they are exposed to IAW Para. 2.7. of Air Force
Instruction 90-821.

5. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS):

5.1. The Installation Hazardous Material Program Manager (IHMP), (97 CES/CEAN in Bldg
358 at 481-7156) maintains the MSDS master file containing all hazardous chemicals used at
Altus AFB.

5.1.1. This master file consists of HMIRS and Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(OSHA) Form 174, “Material Safety Data Sheet, “ or equivalent forms.

5.1.2. This MSDS information will be readily available to all workers through the HMIRS
Online Web Application — (http:// www.dlis.dla.mil/hmirs).

5.1.3. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BEE), Bldg 46, 481-5494, can also assist in obtaining
MSDS information.

5.2. Workers desiring MSDS information will contact the IHMP office at 481-7156 to establish
a mutually acceptable time during the current workshift to review the MSDS at Bldg 358. The
IHMP office will review the MSDS with the employee and provide an explanation of the MSDS
information. Requests after normal duty hours/emergencies will be directed to the Command
Post at 481-6313 who will contact an IHMP Representative.

5.3. Supervisors will notify IHMP office each time a new chemical is introduced into the work
area. If the IHMP office section determines HMIRS, MSDS, or equivalent information is not
available, the IHMP office will attempt to obtain the MSDS using established procedures.

6. Employee Information and Training:

6.1. Supervisors will ensure subordinate workers are trained IAW AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7.,
“Employee Information and Training.” This training may be provided by the supervisor, the
organization occupational health coordinator, or other formal organization training structure (i.e.,
maintenance trainers) reviewed/approved by Public Health. Supervisors should supplement this
8                                                     ALTUSAFBI48-104 15 OCTOBER 2009


training to provide information on work area specific chemical hazards. Before presenting
supplemental training, the supervisor will ensure the following agencies review the information
for technical accuracy:

6.1.1. BEE (97 MDOS/SGOPJ at 481-5494).

6.1.2. Public Health (97 MDOS/SGOPL at 481-5359).

6.1.3. Safety (97 AMW/SEG at 481-7233).

6.1.4. Fire Department (97 CES/CEF at 481-6333).

6.1.5. (As applicable) Environmental Coordinator (97 CES/CEAN at 481-6221).

7. Hazardous Chemical Inventory:

7.1. The hazardous chemical inventory for this area will be maintained by the work area
supervisor. The inventory can be taken from the AF-EMIS or ESOH-MIS. The BEE will review
this inventory IAW the assessment priority established in AFI 48-145, Occupational Health
Program.

7.2. The supervisors will maintain the hazardous chemicals inventory in the work area and
update it as necessary via EMIS/ESOH-MIS. When new chemicals are introduced into the work
area, the supervisor must consult with the IHMP Office, (97 CES/ CEAN at 481-7504) to
determine if the chemical should be added to the inventory.

7.3. The written work area/shop hazard communication program must include a list of hazardous
chemicals known to be present in a work area/shop (the list may be compiled for the work
area/shop as a whole or for specified and readily distinguishable portions of a work area/shop).
The identity that is used on the MSDS must be cross-referenced to the inventory. Where
accessible, the inventory must be maintained in the ESOH-MIS.

8. Chemical Product Labeling:

8.1. Appropriate hazard warnings that include information about the specific physical and health
hazard(s), including target organ effects of the chemical(s) in the container. This may be
accomplished using any combination of words, symbols, or pictures.

8.2. Chemical manufacturers, importers and commercial distributors are responsible to label
containers of hazardous chemicals according to the OSHA’s Federal HAZCOM standard.
Accordingly, chemical containers entering the installation through the supply system or through
local purchase should already be labeled. Supply receiving and HAZMARTs will ensure
incoming containers are properly labeled. Supply receiving and HAZMARTS will submit an
item discrepancy report to identify any containers received without proper labeling from the
manufacturer.
   ALTUSAFBI48-104 15 OCTOBER 2009                                                              9


8.3. Supervisors will ensure labels on containers of hazardous chemicals used in their work area/
shop meet HAZCOM requirements, remain affixed to their containers, and are not obliterated or
covered. At a minimum, the following information will appear on container labels (refer to 29
CFR 1910.1200[f][6] for alternate means):

8.3.1. The identity of the hazardous chemical(s) in the container.

8.3.2. Appropriate hazard warnings that include information about the specific physical and
health hazard(s), including target organ effects of the chemical(s) in the container. This may be
accomplished using any combination of words, symbols, or pictures.

9. Non-Routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials:

9.1. Non-routine tasks are:

9.1.1. Those tasks included within a work area’s normal activities but performed infrequently;
for example, cleaning a solvent tank and changing the solvent, or cleaning up spills.

9.1.2. Temporary duties outside an individual’s normal Air Force Specialty Code or job series.

9.2. The work area supervisor will list all non-routine tasks performed in this work area which
involve hazardous material. The supervisor will ensure work area OIs thoroughly describe non-
routine tasks, associated hazards, and controls, for the infrequent tasks performed in this work
area (See 9.1.1. and 9.1.2. for examples). OIs do not need to be prepared if TOs or other official
documents adequately describe these tasks. Supervisors will ensure workers review these
procedures before performing any non-routine tasks.

9.3. When workers temporarily perform duties outside their normal jobs, the supervisor of the
activity will ensure these workers receive the following training prior to beginning the activity:

9.3.1. The initial Employee Information and Training Program described in Paragraph 2.7 of
AFOSH Standard 90-821, Hazard Communication, for workers not previously trained.

9.3.2. Supplemental training, as necessary, on work area specific chemical hazards and
associated controls.

9.4. The supervisor of the activity will forward a letter to the worker’s formal supervisor
describing the training conducted so the individual’s AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health
Record, can be updated.
10                                                 ALTUSAFBI48-104 15 OCTOBER 2009


10. Adopted Forms. Air Force Form 55 (AF55), Employee Safety and Health Record; Air
Force Form 3952 (AF3952), Chemical/Hazardous Material Request/Authorization Form;
OSHA Form 174, Material Safety Data Sheet

11. Prescribed Forms. None.



                                      X
                                          JON T. THOMAS, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander

Attachment:
1. Glossary of References and Supporting Information
2. Abbreviations and Acronyms
  ALTUSAFBI48-104 15 OCTOBER 2009                                                           11


                                         Attachment 1


                     Glossary of References and Supporting Information

References

Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program.
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management.
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication.
Executive Order 12856, Federal Compliance with Right-to-Know Laws and Pollution Prevention
Requirements.
Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA) of 1986.
Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 1910.1200, Hazard Communication.

Work Definitions

Contractor – Any non-DoD organization hired by the Air Force or Army Corps of Engineers to
perform a specific job at Altus AFB.

Occupational Purposes – This phrase identifies any chemical product used for an individual’s
primary occupational (industrial) duty. This does not apply to such items used for household
purposes (for example, cleaners, polishes, waxes) unless the use of such items constitutes the
individual’s primary duty. Also, this instruction does not apply to wood, tobacco, or alcoholic
beverage products.

Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) – A form that provides the ingredients, potential health
and environmental hazards, and other information for a specific chemical product. This form is
mandated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and by federal law.
The form must be available from the manufacturer of the product upon request. The MSDS may
be OSHA Form 174, or the manufacturer’s equivalent.

Hazardous Material Information Resourse System (HMIRS) – HMIRS is a DoD automated
system developed and maintained by the Defense Logistics Agency. HMIRS is the central
repository for MSDS for the United States Government military services and civil agencies.

Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Management Information System
(ESOH-MIS) – The ESOH-MIS is a web-based ESOH tool used and funded by the DoD
standardize, document, and archive comprehensive ESOH information.
12                                               ALTUSAFBI48-104 15 OCTOBER 2009


                                     Attachment 2

                             Abbreviations and Acronyms

ACO—administrative contracting officer
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFIOH—Air Force Institute for Operational Health
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety, Fire Prevention, and Health
AFOSH Std—Air Force occupational safety, fire prevention and health standard
AFSC—Air Force specialty code
BEE—bioenvironmental engineer
CAMS—core automated maintenance system
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DoD—Department of Defense
ESOH-MIS—environmental, safety, and occupational health management information system
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulations
HAZCOM—hazard communication
HMIRS—Hazardous Material Information Resource System
HMMP—hazardous material management process
IHMP—installation HAZMAT management program
JSA—job safety analyses
MAJCOM—major command
MSG—mission support group
MSDS—material safety data sheet
OI—operating instruction
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PH—public health
