                            DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                         HEADQUARTERS AIR MOBILITY COMMAND




                                                                                        AMCGM31-02
                                                                                          7 Nov 2012

MEMORANDUM FOR ALL AMC UNITS

FROM: HQ AMC/A7
      507 Symington Drive
      Scott AFB IL 62225

SUBJECT: Air Mobility Command (AMC) Guidance Memorandum AMCGM 31-02, Non-Lethal
Weapons Standards

Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

1. This AMC Guidance Memorandum is effective immediately to implement AMC standards for
non-lethal weapons and supersedes AMCGM 31-01. Compliance with this Memorandum is
mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other AMC supplements, the
information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. The attached guidance outlines AMC specific standards for training, arming, employment, legal
considerations and reporting requirements for individual non-lethal weapons.

3. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this Memorandum are maintained
in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

4. The guidance in this Memorandum becomes void after 180 days have elapsed from the date of the
Memorandum, or release of an Air Force publication incorporating the new guidance, whichever is
earlier.

5. Please direct any questions to my POCs; SMSgt Patrick Holtzmann, AMC/A7SOO DSN 779-
0955, patrick.holtzmann@us.af.mil and MSgt Peter Maraia, AMC/A7SOO, DSN 779-0919,
peter.maraia@us.af.mil.




                                                   TIMOTHY S. GREEN
                                                   Brigadier General, USAF
                                                   Director of Installations and Mission Support


Attachment:
AMC Non-Lethal Weapons Guidance


                     Unrivaled Global Reach for America…ALWAYS!
                                                                                                        2
AMCGM 31-02, 7 Nov 12



                     Air Mobility Command Non-Lethal Weapons Guidance

1. Non-Lethal Weapons (NLW) systems (Oleoresin Capsicum, Expandable Baton, and
M26/X26 Taser®) are essential tools for Use of Force (UoF) application by security forces (SF)
personnel and SF augmentees. It is imperative that every SF commander acquire and sustain and
adequate inventory of approved individual NLW technologies to provide non-lethal options to armed
response forces under those conditions where the UoF may apply. Furthermore, it is equally
important to provide incident commanders, flight leaders, and flight sergeants potential options to
resolve the spectrum of high-risk incidents with non-lethal capabilities.

2. Training. All units will conduct training IAW AFMAN 31-222, Air Force Use of Force Manual,
and AFI 31-117, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, on the applicable, individual
NLW systems. Additionally, the following training is also required:

       2.1. Units employing Taser® systems will ensure all SF and augmentation personnel receive
       Back-up Responder training and integrate it into their Phase I training plan. The lesson plan
       is posted on the AFSFC eTTPG library at http://afsf.lackland.af.mil. SF augmentation duty
       personnel will receive this training during their initial or the next annual training cycle, or
       earlier as determined by the unit commander.

       2.2. Units that use the Taser® camera accessory will develop an additional lesson plan for
       initial Taser® training that covers video recording procedures, as well as evidence collection,
       processing, and documentation procedures.

3. Employment. Armed SF personnel will be equipped with a minimum of one NLW at all times.
Commanders may allow posts and/or patrols the ability to carry more than one NLW IAW locally
developed policies and procedures. Commanders should make every effort to supply a combination
of NLWs to provide options for posted SF.

       3.1. Locally developed Taser® (to include Taser® with camera accessory) policies will be
       coordinated through the local SJA before the Taser® is authorized for carry. Upon final
       approval, commanders will forward their Taser® policies and documented SJA coordination
       to AMC/A7SO for file.

4. NLW Authorized/Unauthorized Discharge and Employment Reporting Requirements. Timely
and accurate reporting to HQ AMC/A7S and HQ AFSFC is critical to share lessons learned from
NLW employment. Commanders will forward written NLW discharge/employment lessons learned
reports, as defined in AFI 31-201, Security Forces Standards and Procedures, AFI 31-117, and
AFMAN 31-222, to HQ AMC/A7SO within 25 calendar days of the incident. HQ AMC/A7SO
will, in turn, forward the report to HQ AFSFC on behalf of the unit. All lessons learned reports will
be drafted in the lessons learned format outlined in AFI 31-117, Attachment 4.
                                                                                                 3
AMCGM 31-02, 7 Nov 12



       4.1. When unauthorized employment of a NLW does not involve an injury, fatality,
       or possible adverse publicity, the incident will be reported to HQ AMC/A7S within 24 hours
       or the next duty day. Reports will be in the OPREP-3/BEELINE format and sent via e-mail
       to: amc.A7SO@us.af.mil.

5. Taser® Administration. Proper oversight of the Taser® NLW system is critical to system
sustainability and legal considerations. Commanders of units employing Taser® systems will
appoint a primary and alternate Taser® Administrator. Administrators will be responsible to manage
the Taser® system by providing timely information downloads, software updates, and maintenance
oversight.
