                              DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                            HEADQUARTERS AIR MOBILITY COMMAND


                                                                                 AMCGM84-01

                                                                               29 November 2012
MEMORANDUM FOR ALL AMC JOINT BASES

FROM: HQ AMC/HO
      402 Scott Drive, Unit 1M7
      Scott AFB IL 62225-5610

SUBJECT: Air Mobility Command Guidance Memorandum, Joint Basing Heritage Program

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

1. This Guidance Memorandum (GM) immediately establishes and implements supplemental
procedures to AFI 84-103, U.S. Air Force Heritage Program. To the extent its direction is
inconsistent with guidance issued by a higher-level unit, the higher-level publication takes
precedence IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. This GM applies to the
43rd Airlift Group and all Air Mobility Command Joint Base organizations.

2. Static display aircraft are reflections of the Air Force’s pride in its history and heritage.
Therefore, static displays must be carefully maintained in accordance with AFI 84-103, U.S. Air
Force Heritage Program. Per this AFI, wing commanders bear responsibility for maintenance
and upkeep of the organization’s Heritage Program.

3. The attachment to this GM establishes the responsibilities of Joint Base wing commanders.
The wing commanders, operational or support, bear specific responsibility for upkeep of aircraft
on loan from the National Museum of the USAF (NMUSAF).

4. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this Memorandum are
maintained in accordance with AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc/af.mil/.

5. The guidance in this Memorandum becomes void after 180 days have elapsed from the date
of this Memorandum, or upon release of an AF publication incorporating the guidance,
whichever is earlier.




                                            ELLERY D. WALLWORK, GS-14, DAF
                                            Command Historian
                                           Attachment

1.5.10.12 (Add New) The care, maintenance, and accountability for other services’ (e.g. Army,
Navy) historical property are the responsibility of those services and the organizations to which
the property belongs IAW applicable department and service specific regulations, instructions,
etc.

1.5.10.13 (Add New) The care, maintenance, and accountability for AMC-led joint bases will be
divided as follows:

1.5.10.13.1 (Add New) The operational wing will execute the Historical Property Agreement
(HPA) between the wing and the NMUSAF. The wing will also provide the technical
knowledge and manpower to ensure the aircraft’s physical condition reflects favorably upon the
Air Force and is not a safety hazard to the general public. This may include periodic washing,
corrosion prevention, painting and refurbishing.

1.5.10.13.2 (Add New) The support wing will provide the funding to ensure the aircraft are kept
in compliance with the HPA and the area surrounding the displays are maintained IAW Air
Force standards. The funding will be included in the support wing’s annual unit budget
(financial plan) per AFI 84-103, para 1.5.10.2.

1.5.10.14 (Add New) The care, maintenance, and accountability for NMUSAF property on Joint
Base Lewis-McChord and Pope Army Air Field will be IAW AFI 84-103. The AMC unit will
execute the Historical Property Agreement (HPA) with NMUSAF. The unit will also provide
the funding, technical knowledge, and manpower to ensure the aircraft’s physical condition
reflects favorably upon the Air Force and is not a safety hazard to the general public. This may
include periodic washing, corrosion prevention, painting and refurbishing. The Army host
should ensure the area surrounding the displays are maintained IAW local standards.
