                                   DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                         HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE AIR MOBILITY COMMAND


                                                                                          AMCGM33-04

                                                                                             7 June 2013
MEMORANDUM FOR AMC UNITS

FROM: AMC/A6
      203 W. Losey St
      Scott Air Force Base, IL 62221

SUBJECT: AMC Guidance Memorandum, HFGCS Distributed Operations and Support

Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

1. By Order of the Director of Communications, Air Mobility Command. This is an AMC Guidance
Memorandum (GM) immediately implementing guidance to establish a continuity of High Frequency
Global Communications System (HFGCS) operations between Andrews Network Control Station
(ANCS) and Grand Forks Network Control Station (GFNCS). It will identify Master Network Control
Station (MNCS) responsibilities and how they transfer between NCS’s to ensure effective management of
HFGCS and equipment resources. Attachment 1 identifies the guidance. This GM applies to active duty
AMC units, personnel and equipment. It does not apply to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve
units. Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with
other Air Force publications; the information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management.

2. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained
in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This publication requires the
collection or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974.

3. The guidance in this memorandum becomes void after 365 days have elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon release of an Air Mobility Command Publication incorporating this guidance,
whichever is earlier.

4. Direct questions to MSgt Jonathan Barnes or TSgt Corey Simon, HQ AMC/A6OC, DSN 779-
5740/5302.


                                                      KRIS D. BEASLEY, Colonel, USAF
                                                      Director of Communications and
                                                      Chief Information Officer


Attachment:
High Frequency Global Communications System (HFGCS) Operations
                                        Attachment
               High Frequency Global Communications System (HFGCS) Operations

Section 1 – Background

1. The High Frequency Global Communications System (HFGCS) consists of 13 worldwide, high
powered, high frequency stations. All 13 stations are remotely controlled by the Andrews Network
Control Station (ANCS) and the Grand Forks Network Control Station (GFNCS). The HFGCS missions
are to operate and maintain HF Mystic Star C2 networks, disseminate emergency action messages,
provide air to ground phone patches, and ensure timely and accurate broadcasts of reconnaissance and
aircraft advisories for the President, Joint Chiefs of Staff, Combatant and Major Commands, allies, and
other non-DoD users. Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) is the Lead Command and Air Force
Network Integration Center (AFNIC) is the requirements lead and system manager for the HFGCS
weapons system. The 89 CS operates and maintains ANCS at Joint Base Andrews, MD and the 319 CS
operates and maintains GFNCS at Grand Forks AFB, ND.

2. The concept of a second NCS was developed in response to the events of 11 September 2001. These
events highlighted the need to eliminate a single point of failure and provide robust HFGCS Command
and Control (C2) operations for Senior Leader Communications. During a major crisis it is vital that key
C2 systems are available to provide leadership options and flexibility to significantly increase the
probability of mission success. HFGCS is a key C2 system and needs to be available at all times.
Standing up the GFNCS eliminates or mitigates the risks of connectivity problems and survivability of
HFGCS C2 operations.

Section 2 – HFGCS Distributed Operations Roles and Responsibilities

2.1 As defined in CJCS VOL VII(S) Emergency Action Message Dissemination, DISA Circular 310-70-
79 and AFMAN 33-109 which is being renumbered to AFMAN 33-591(S); required deviations will be
documented with an interim change, a re-write, or other formal administrative methods. Figure 2.1 shows
a simplified diagram of distributed operations.




                                                                                                           2
       Figure 2.1. HFGCS Distributed Operations.




2.2 Normal OperationsThe MNCS will maintain Operational Control (OPCON) of the HFGCS
NetworkThe shift of authorizations on UMDs to balance manning between both NCS’s is scheduled to
occur 1 Jul 2013. Beginning 1 Feb 2013 GFNCS will operate 2 global stations 24/7/365 and ANCS will
operate 11 global stations 24/7/365. The current goal for balancing the NCS manning is to have GFNCS
operate 6 global stations 24/7/365 and ANCS operate 7 global stations 24/7/365. See figure 2.2 for
current OPCON organizational structure. To allow an orderly draw down of station coverage at the
ANCS under normal conditions, the GFNCS will take an additional station NLT 120 days after the arrival
of every fifth inbound. See figure 2.3. for future OPCON organizational structure. Until the target end
strengths are met, the following coverage requirements listed may differ.

2.2.1 The MNCS will give operational tasking to meet HFGCS and other HF authorized users
(USSTRATCOM, USEUCOM, AIA, AFSPC, etc.) mission requirements. The MNCS will provide day-
to-day operational guidance to ensure HFGCS missions are met and reported. This generally focuses on
coordinating traffic and balancing the workload between the NCSs. During normal operations the
Operations Manager of the MNCS will assign tasks and provide oversight and control over the complete
HFGCS network administration/control. The MNCS will compile and distribute reports of the complete
HFGCS network status as defined in AFMAN 33-109 (33-591) and DISAC 310-70-79.

2.2.2 The GFNCS reporting procedures will focus on stations operated by GFNCS and will be in the
same format that ANCS uses. This will ensure GFNCS can take on all associated reporting when it
assumes control of the complete HFGCS network.



                                                                                                       3
2.2.3 NCS’s maintenance is required to be postured to maintain the HFGCS network 24/7/365. This
includes outage reporting, status reporting, higher headquarters up channeling requirements, and other
NCS tasks.

2.2.4 The NCS coordinators will balance the operational workload between the two NCS’s based on
available resources. The global stations and MNCS responsibilities will be assigned to each NCS by the
15th of each month for the following month.

2.2.5 ANCS and GFNCS will develop checklists procedures and have them accessible by both NCS.
These checklists will cover all the required activities that are needed when OPCON transfers and NCS
evacuation procedures.


2.3 Contingency operations: The transfer of MNCS of the HFGCS network may include planned and
unplanned events. Operationally GFNCS and ANCS will work together. The physical station
connections will ensure each NCS covers at least two stations per region (Americas, European, and
Pacific) to meet minimum mission requirements should a NCS fail. The Any Console Any Station
capability will allow distributed operational control of the traffic between the 2 NCS stations. In the
contingency mode of operation any NCS is capable of accepting the complete HFGCS network. The
priority is time sensitive C2 and then other radio operations traffic in accordance with CJCS VOL VII(S),
AFMAN 33-109 (33-591)(S) and DISAC 310-70-79 and other applicable guidance.

2.3.1 If the ANCS is unavailable to maintain MNCS and operate their assigned global stations:

2.3.1.1 All available ANCS operators will report to alternate duty locations.

2.3.1.2 Based on the type and potential length of the contingency the GFNCS and ANCS squadron
leadership will work with HQ AMC to address the situation. HQ AMC can activate one or more HFGCS
UTC to support the operational NCS.

2.3.1.3 GFNCS will become MNCS and take operational control of all 13 global stations and perform
MNCS duties.

2.3.1.4 GFNCS operations and maintenance will provide 24/7 coverage until ANCS is available to return
to normal operations.

2.3.2 If GFNCS is unavailable to maintain and operate their assignedglobal stations:

2.3.2.1 All available GFNCS operators will report to alternate duty locations.

2.3.2.2 Based on the type and potential length of the contingency the GFNCS and ANCS squadron
leadership will work with HQ AMC to address the situation. HQ AMC can activate one or more HFGCS
UTC to support the operational NCS.


                                                                                                         4
2.3.2.3 ANCS will become MNCS and take operational control of all 13 global stations.

2.3.2.4 ANCS operations and maintenance will provide 24/7 coverage until GFNCS is available to return
to normal operations.

Figure 2.2. HFGCS Operational Structure (OPCON – Normal Operations, Current Status).

                                                               HFGCS
                                                              Operations
                                                               Manager


                             GFNCS                                                                  ANCS
                         Coordinator /                                                        Shift Supervisor /
                        Station Operator                                                        Coordinator



     Station Operator                      Station Operator                Station Operator                        Station Operator




                                                                           Station Operator                        Station Operator




                                                                           Station Operator                        Station Operator




                                                                           Station Operator                        Station Operator




                                                                           Station Operator                        Station Operator




                                                                                                                   Station Operator




                                                                                                                                      5
Figure 2.3. HFGCS Operational Structure (OPCON – Normal Operations, Future Status).


                                                                   HFGCS
                                                                  Operations
                                                                   Manager
                                                                  **MNCS**

                               GFNCS                                                                    ANCS
        Data                                                                                                                 Data
                          Shift Supervisor /                                                      Shift Supervisor /
       Operator                                                                                                             Operator
                            Coordinator                                                             Coordinator



       Station Operator                        Station Operator                Station Operator                        Station Operator




       Station Operator                        Station Operator                Station Operator                        Station Operator




       Station Operator                        Station Operator                Station Operator                        Station Operator




                                                                                                                       Station Operator




Section 3 – Processes and Procedures

3.1 The ANCS is currently the MNCS for the Global HF System and the GFNCS is the other
NCS in a normal non-stressed condition. Upon achieving the 6/7 split MNCS duties will be
shared between the ANCS and GFNCS, switching every two weeks. The MNCS is the approval
authority within the Global system for station outages. The two NCS’s will control and operate
all 13 Global stations 24/7/365.

3.2 The MNCS will:

3.2.1 Monitor alert status of all stations, take action to clear all alert failures, schedule tests of alert
functions (includes STRAT Daily) and keep USSTRATCOM informed of degraded conditions caused by
alert outages.

3.2.2 Notify USSTRATCOM Command Center of any outages within the network that impair any
Global station’s ability to support mission requirements.

3.2.3 Keep the other NCS advised of outages that affect operational capability of the Global System
regardless of stations they are monitoring.



                                                                                                                                          6
3.2.4 Ensure procedures in AFMAN 33-109 (33-591) (S), CJCS VOL VII(S), DISAC-70-79 and
applicable ACP’s are followed by all stations within the network.

3.2.5 Perform all alerts/seizures for the entire Global System. IE: Emergency Action Messages and
Aircraft Advisories. Within two minutes of disseminating a message, contact the other NCS to confirm
successful alert and transmission on all designated frequencies.

3.2.6 Perform Emergency Action Message queue management, in coordination with USSTRATCOM,
within the Global System.

3.2.7 Be the approval authority for all scheduled system outages (ASI’s, PMI’s, etc.).

3.2.8 Conduct status reporting IAW the AMC Operating Instruction for outage procedures (SITREP’s,
NOTAM’s, etc.).

3.3 The other NCS will:

3.3.1 Monitor alert status of respective stations and take aggressive action to clear all alert failures. Keep
the MNCS informed of any condition(s) resulting in a station outage or a condition that affect an
operational mission.

Ensure procedures in AFMAN 33-109 (33-591)(S), CJCS VOL VII(S) and applicable ACP’s are
followed by all stations within the network.

Section 4 – MNCS Transfer

4.1 The station assuming MNCS responsibilities will notify the USSTRATCOM Command Center via
LL at DSN: 271-1806 and advise them to relay queue management instructions to their station.

4.2 The new MNCS will disseminate a SITREP within 15 minutes of MNCS transfer.

4.3 MNCS change notification will be accomplished and executed over the most convenient median
available to the NCS. Notifying the other NCS of the MNCS change in clear text. Initials from both
NCS’s will be relayed and be recorded in the MSL.

4.4 The losing NCS will contact the gaining NCS and pass current and any pertinent HFGCS status (ie:
current traffic, open traffic, station status, etc…)

4.5 Scheduled: MNCS responsibilities will be shared on a bi-weekly basis according to the following:

4.5.1 Goal for GFNCS is to assume MNCS responsibilities 2 weeks at a time alternating with the ANCS.
This will not be possible until the HFGCS Operator positions are balanced between ANCS and GFNCS.
After the HFGCS Operator positions are balanced then this will be a requirement.

                                                                                                             7
4.5.2 ANCS will assume MNCS responsibilities during the alternating 2 weeks.

4.5.3 This allows both NCS’s personnel to remain proficient in controlling the Global system network in
the event that either experiences an unscheduled outage.

4.5.4 TheNCS assuming MNCS will follow the procedures directed in para. 3.2 and 3.3 of this
instruction.

Note 1: ANCS will not transfer MNCS responsibilities during an assessment until GFNCS is scripted in
the assessment.

Note 2: Andrews will remain on standby status with the capability to immediately resume all
responsibilities if directed by competent authority.

4.6 Unscheduled: The following conditions may dictate transfer of MNCS:

4.6.1 Per direction of Operations Manager/Shift Supervisor if one NCS is in a HAZCON or in a degraded
state.

4.6.1.1 Within 5 minutes of transferring MNCS responsibilities: notify squadron leadership, HQ AMC
and HFGCS System Manager via the quickest means possible

4.6.1.2 Within 15 minutes a SITREP will be distributed.

4.6.2 The NCS without MNCS responsibilities may be required to assume these responsibilities on a no-
notice basis as mission requirements dictate.

4.6.3 During contingency or surge operations the MNCS will take efforts to maximize station coverage
utilizing all resources under their OPCON. Some of those steps may consists of assigning stations to a
NCS alternate facility using DSN remote access, going to wartime minimum manpower work schedule
(12 hour shifts, 6 on/1 off) for short durations, or similar measures. This ensures best effort station
coverage and will be followed up with either a restoral or UTC activation decision.




                                                                                                          8
