BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     AIR MOBILITY COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                             24-101 VOLUME 4

                                                                      26 DECEMBER 2013

                                                               MILITARY AIRLIFT/AIR
                                                           TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
                                                                     MANAGEMENT

                                                                      TRANSPORTATION


            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AMC/A4TI                                                 Certified by: HQ AMC/A4T
                                                             (Colonel Thomas J. Trumbull II)
                                                                                   Pages: 35
Supersedes: AMCI 24-101V4, 21 April 2011


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Information Management.
This volume describes automation and communication procedures for developing, operating, and
managing the Air Mobility Command (AMC) transportation computer systems used to control
and record the movement of passengers, cargo, and mail for all AMC aerial ports and air
terminals. It also provides guidance for those non-AMC organizations which are using AMC
automated systems. This volume applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units but not
Air National Guard (ANG) units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command to HQ AMC A4TI at org.amca4-69@us.af.mil
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references
and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include:
updated office symbols and internet links, addition of HQ AMC/A4TC and A4TP
 2                                                                                AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013


responsibilities, appropriate manpower placements, added increased WASO responsibilities and
new automated WASO capabilities within the Global Air Transportation Execution System
(GATES), new guidance on the GATES password management and user authentication
procedures using the DD Form 2875, System Authorization Access Request, addition of common
and critical GATES interfaces, addition of DGATES commissioning procedures, removal of Air
Automated Load Planning System (AALPS) and specifics to the Integrated Computerized
Deployment System (ICODES) were added, enhanced guidance on the GATES access and
approval process and completely removes aerial port responsibility of all passenger kiosk
maintenance and operations.


        1.     General. ..................................................................................................................    2
        2.     Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................        2
        3.     Transportation Systems ..........................................................................................              6
Figure 1.      -- GATES Connectivity Diagram ..........................................................................                       7
        4.     GATES Procedures and Policies ...........................................................................                     13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               29


1. General.
     1.1. Three separate functional community requirements are integrated into GATES: AMC
     and aerial port operations, United States Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM) with
     the Defense Courier Division (DCD), and the Surface Deployment and Distribution
     Command (SDDC). As a joint system, GATES is primarily managed and funded by
     USTRANSCOM. This instruction only applies to GATES as it pertains to AMC’s aerial port
     operations and air transportation.
     1.2. AMC must provide automation support and data capture of aerial port transportation
     activities to meet wartime mission requirements as well as sustain normal peacetime
     operations. Automation is required to support aerial port operations and AMC financial
     management obligations, as well as to provide In-Transit Visibility (ITV) for cargo and
     passengers moving on AMC airlift.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. Headquarters (HQ) AMC/A4T will:
        2.1.1. Provide policy guidance on Aerial Port Operations.
        2.1.2. Coordinate transportation systems development and planning with HQ
        AMC/A4TI.
        2.1.3. Coordinate policy changes that affect transportation automation systems with HQ
        AMC/A4TI.
        2.1.4. Review system metrics and identify problem areas that impact efficient operation
        of transportation automation systems and take appropriate action to facilitate correction.
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                              3


     2.1.5. Serve as a voting member on the USTRANSCOM Joint Functional Requirements
     Board (JFRB) for GATES.
  2.2. HQ AMC/A4TI will:
     2.2.1. Serve as the Air Functional Manager for GATES and in this capacity will:
        2.2.1.1. Coordinate with both internal and external program managers of automated
        information systems pertaining to the exchange of information between their systems
        and GATES.
        2.2.1.2. Develop and review concepts of operation (CONOPS) for automation
        systems based on user requirements, higher headquarters directives, and new
        capabilities resulting from improved technology.
        2.2.1.3. Manage GATES access requests.
        2.2.1.4. Substantiate data systems development and implementation schedules.
        2.2.1.5. Develop and/or validate Baseline Change Requests (BCRs), Software
        Problem Reports (SPRs), and Document Problem Reports (DPRs) applicable to
        GATES. For instructions and templates please see paragraph 4.3 Gates Change
        Control Process within this instruction.
        2.2.1.6. Maintain close liaison with the GATES Program Management Office
        (PMO).
        2.2.1.7. Working through the GATES PMO; maintain close liaison with the GATES
        programming developers.
        2.2.1.8. Maintain close liaison with GATES account holders and serve as their
        advocate to the GATES PMO and GATES developers
        2.2.1.9. Make all necessary arrangements to provide AMC GATES users for AMC
        GATES Customer Acceptance Testing (CAT) in the GATES Port Simulation Center
        (GPSC) and augment the GATES test bed as required.
        2.2.1.10. Coordinate installation and removal        of   GATES/Remote         GATES
        (RGATES)/Deployed GATES (DGATES).
        2.2.1.11. Work trouble tickets assigned to the Functional Managers through C2
        Remedy.
        2.2.1.12. Maintain the HQ AMC/A4TI web pages and ensure the functional
        information on the web pages is current.
     2.2.2. Research and integrate new technologies into AMC transportation systems.
     2.2.3. Serve as the AMC functional point of contact for issues concerning non-AMC
     transportation systems.
     2.2.4. Serve as the Chairman of the Transportation Functional Management Board
     (FMB).
     2.2.5. Serve as a voting member on the GATES Configuration Control Board (CCB).
 4                                                      AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013


        2.2.6. Ensure GATES requirements are included in air transportation submissions to
        joint strategic planning documents and the biennial planning, programming, and
        budgeting system.
        2.2.7. Ensure the requirement for foreign national background investigations is included
        in all contract vehicles for services provided at air terminals and commercial gateways in
        locations where foreign nationals provide the services and must have access to GATES.
     2.3. Other HQ AMC/A4T Branches will:
        2.3.1. Notify A4TI of GATES related issues.
        2.3.2. Submit and/or coordinate on BCRs, SPRs, and DPRs, as required. For instructions
        and templates please see paragraph 4.3 Gates Change Control Process within this
        instruction.
        2.3.3. Serve as a voting member on the Transportation FMB.
        2.3.4. Work trouble tickets assigned to them through C2 Remedy.
     2.4. HQ AMC/A4TR in addition will:
        2.4.1. Coordinate development and implementation of GATES training programs and
        material with USAF Expeditionary Center (EC).
        2.4.2. Coordinate GATES user training issues with A4TI and USAF EC.
     2.5. HQ AMC/A4TP in addition will:
        2.5.1. Function as the approval authority for organizations requesting access to GATES
        for passenger bookings.
     2.6. HQ AMC/A4TC in addition will:
2.6.1 Serve as the authority for creating and maintaining worldwide Aerial Port Codes (APC) as
needed for agencies throughout the command.

     2.7. The Chief, In-Transit Visibility and Business Systems Branch (HQ AMC/A6IB)
     will:
        2.7.1. Establish a GATES PMO and appoint a GATES Program Manager (PM).
        2.7.2. Execute appropriate PMO responsibilities as articulated in DOD, Air Force, and
        AMC directives.
        2.7.3. Secure funding for procurement, development, and initial/software directed
        implementation of hardware and software for AMC air terminals and aerial ports and
        non- AMC air terminals and aerial ports operated on AMC’s behalf.
        2.7.4. Procure and sustain GATES server maintenance support for hardware architecture
        in place throughout AMC.
        2.7.5. Provide GATES equipment per the GATES Integrated Logistics Support Plan
        (ILSP).
        2.7.6. Manage all aspects of security for GATES including Workstation Area Security
        Officer (WASO) management for the air side of GATES.
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  5


     2.7.7. Serve as the Chairman of the GATES Configuration Control Board (CCB).
     2.7.8. Act as central point of contact for completion and finalizing Service Level
     Agreements (SLAs).
     2.7.9. Secure funding for certification and accreditation (C&A) contractor services for
     GATES Central and Alternate sites as well as aerial ports.
     2.7.10. Ensure appropriate documentation, technical library, and software/equipment
     user’s manuals are current and changes are released to the field; obtain transportation
     policy and technical information from HQ AMC/A4T to support the sustainment of
     transportation systems.
  2.8. The Chief, Mission Systems Support Branch (HQ AMC/A6IS) will:
     2.8.1. Provide automated transportation systems sustainment and support services.
     2.8.2. Maintain the GPSC, ensuring it is operational and stable a minimum of two weeks
     prior to any scheduled functional software testing.
  2.9. The Director of Global Readiness, AMC 618 AOC (TACC)/XOP), will:
     2.9.1. Task deployable units with appropriate automation systems, support elements, and
     trained personnel.
     2.9.2. Submit and/or coordinate on BCRs, SPRs, and DPRs, as required. For instructions
     and templates please see paragraph 4.3 Gates Change Control Process within this
     instruction.
     2.9.3. Serve as a voting member on the Transportation FMB.
  2.10. The Director of Global Channel Operations, AMC 618 AOC (TACC)/XOG), will:
     2.10.1. Review system metrics and identify to HQ AMC/A4TI problem areas that impact
     efficient operation of transportation automation systems.
     2.10.2. Develop, submit, validate, and/or test system software BCRs, SPRs, and DPRs as
     required. For instructions and templates please see paragraph 4.3 Gates Change Control
     Process within this instruction.
     2.10.3. Serve as a voting member on the Transportation FMB.
     2.10.4. Participate in developing future transportation automation system requirements.
     2.10.5. Provide routing IDs for approved passenger booking agencies.
  2.11. 375th Computer Support Squadron will:
     2.11.1. Coordinate with HQ AMC/A4TI in exercising technical operation direction over
     resources for the purposes of maintenance in support of transportation automation
     systems.
     2.11.2. Coordinate the release of system advisory notices, letters, messages, and software
     releases or updates with HQ AMC/A4TI.
     2.11.3. Identify operational trends and recommend improvements to the GATES PMO
     and HQ AMC/A4TI.
 6                                                      AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013


        2.11.4. Maintain a 24/7 customer support branch (help desk) for operational problems or
        system outages.
        2.11.5. Maintain working documents to track network and systems problems and make
        available to update GATES PMO and HQ AMC/A4TI as requested.
        2.11.6. Serve as an Information Assurance Manager overseeing services provided under
        the Enterprise Security Support contract (providing technical services to support DoD
        and AF C&A activities for GATES).
     2.12. Aerial port squadrons and air terminals operated on AMC’s behalf will:
        2.12.1. Maintain fully qualified primary and alternate systems management personnel to
        oversee GATES-specific issues (C4/CSA duties not included), act as central points of
        contact for automatic identification technology upgrades, and serve as liaison between the
        unit and the HQ AMC GATES Functional Management Office, HQ AMC/A4TI.
        2.12.2. Develop and submit system software BCRs and DPRs as required. For
        instructions and templates please see paragraph 4.3 Gates Change Control Process within
        this instruction.
        2.12.3. Participate in developing future transportation automation system requirements to
        include review, coordination, signatory, and adherence to established SLAs within 90 days.
        2.12.4. Configure and install GATES-related devices to support transportation
        automation in the air terminal.
        2.12.5. Ensure adherence to the requirements of all applicable AMCI 24-101 Volumes.
        2.12.6. Follow established GATES policies and operating instructions as identified in
        AMC instructions, the GATES Installation and Operations Documents (GIOD), GATES
        Certification and Accreditation (C&A) documentation, policy memorandums, and other
        such guidance as promulgated by HQ AMC.
        2.12.7. Locally manage GATES equipment, to include maintaining accountability in
        accordance with applicable Air Force Instructions, according to the policy established by
        HQ AMC and ensure that the life cycle replacement hardware is installed in a timely
        manner.
        2.12.8. Create and maintain Trouble Ticket logs and internal processes to ensure all
        GATES related problems, to include Automatic Identification Technology (AIT), are
        tracked and fixed in a timely fashion.
     2.13. GATES parent sites will:
        2.13.1. Assist as required with installation of RGATES servers at locations identified by
        HQ AMC/A4TI.
        2.13.2. Train personnel at child sites on GATES operations, as required.
3. Transportation Systems
     3.1. GATES. This is USTRANSCOMs automated air transportation management system.
     GATES access requires a valid need-to-know, background investigation (National Agency
     Check with Inquiries [NAC-I] or Host Nation Equivalent), and annual computer based
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                 7


   information assurance training. GATES issues a distinct user account when the above
   conditions are met. The individual’s DOD issued Common Access Card (CAC) and digital
   certificates are used for authentication into the GATES system. GATES has discontinued the
   use of passwords for authentication. An important distinction to understand with the GATES
   architecture is that GATES is web-enabled and should not be considered web-based. While
   GATES is accessed via the Internet Explorer web browser, at those locations where cargo
   and passengers are manifested, a web server is physically located at each aerial port and the
   GATES user connects directly to that local web server. That web server then connects back
   to Central Site servers at Scott AFB. Only a few GATES users connect directly to the Central
   Servers at Scott AFB: Transportation Offices making passenger reservations, certain Airlift
   Clearance Authorities (ACAs), those using cargo Track and Trace, users of the GATES
   Enterprise Management Service (GEMS) and those accessing GATES from Scott AFB, i.e.
   HQ AMC or TACC users with GATES accounts or "ad hoc" query and reporting tools using
   a variety of Commercial-Off-The-Shelf (COTS) business intelligence applications. This
   explains why GATES cannot simply be fielded at any site that desires GATES access.
   Installation of servers and associated equipment is required in order to process cargo and
   passengers. Due to the expense and complexity, expansion of GATES to new locations is
   carefully controlled. Figure 1 provides an overview of the GATES connectivity architecture.

Figure 1. -- GATES Connectivity Diagram




      Note: There are essentially six different types of GATES configurations as follows:
8                                                     AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013



    3.1.1. GATES/RGATES. This configuration is found at the larger, fixed location aerial
    ports where a large amount of transportation data is generated. A GATES/RGATES
    server is located at the site with access to the server via PCs using the local LAN. At a
    GATES site, the server connects to the rest of the GATES world by connectivity back to
    the central servers at Scott AFB. At an RGATES site, the connectivity first goes through
    a parent GATES server and then back to the central servers at Scott AFB. See Figure 1
    for a diagram of the GATES/RGATES connectivity.
    3.1.2. DGATES. This is a transportable installation of GATES used to rapidly provide
    ITV in a deployed environment. These installations are managed as downward directed
    taskings by HQ AMC or the Director of Global Readiness, 618 AOC (TACC)/A3N. A
    DGATES server is a ruggedized computer capable of working in austere environments.
    It connects directly back to the central servers at Scott AFB either via the site’s LAN,
    using the computer’s internal MODEM, or by satellite communications using
    INMARSAT/Broadband Global Area Network (BGAN). Often, a DGATES location
    does not generate large amounts of data, and if a LAN is not available, the server does
    not have to be on line all the time. This is especially important when using
    communications where cost is determined by the amount of time connected, such as with
    the older INMARSAT satellite communications, rather than the amount of data
    transferred. Costs can be reduced by only connecting the DGATES computer when there
    is data to transfer. The site can dial up through the satellite, allow replication to proceed
    with the central servers, and then disconnect the system. See Figure 1 for a diagram of the
    DGATES connectivity. DGATES locations are intended to only be temporary until more
    stabilized operations are set in place and reliable ITV can be maintained.
    3.1.3. Track and Trace. Track and Trace provides essentially the same tracking
    capability found in the GATES/RGATES configuration, but doesn’t require installation
    of equipment. The user simply uses a PC with a 128-bit encryption capable browser and
    connects to the GATES Track and Trace web site (https://gatesea.gates.scott.af.mil).
    Track and Trace is provided to personnel/organizations with a valid need to track cargo
    within the AMC airlift system but do not initiate manifesting or processing functions.
    3.1.4. Passenger Reservations. Passenger Reservations, like Track and Trace, uses a
    web browser to connect to the GATES website (https://gatesea.gates.scott.af.mil). The
    function is limited to organizations authorized to make passenger reservations on AMC
    organic/charter aircraft.
    3.1.5. Airlift Clearance Authority (ACA). ACAs use a web browser to connect to the
    GATES website (https://gatesea.gates.scott.af.mil). ACAs from the Air Force, Navy,
    Army, and Marine Corps use the ACA application to add, modify, and delete their
    particular service’s advances within GATES.
    3.1.6. Other GATES Configurations and Equipment
       3.1.6.1. GATES Hand-held Operating Systems Tablet (GHOST). GATES takes
       advantage of automatic identification technology, to include bar-coded military
       shipping labels (MSLs) and bar code scanning, by the use of the GHOST at aerial
       ports for various cargo and passenger processing operations. GATES uses AIT
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                 9


       devices to improve cargo processing accuracy and efficiency by allowing air
       transportation specialists to perform real-time updates to the system from the same
       location they are working the cargo/pallets. The user can in-check, inventory,
       palletize, manifest surface or air, along with every action required to manage cargo
       (e.g., split, consolidate, frustrate) all from the device inside or outside the warehouse
       and other highly utilized areas. The GHOSTs utilize touch screen capability, linear
       and 2D bar code scanning, and real time web access via the Combat Information
       Transport System – Generation II (CITSGEN II) wireless capability, or Wireless
       Local Area Network (WLAN) interactive connectivity, to the GATES data base.
       GHOSTs are also capable of non-interactive capability (batch mode) where
       CITSGEN II coverage is intermittent or not available. The software on the GHOST
       platform looks and feels like the GATES software since the mobile software was
       written to parallel that of any GATES common work station.
       3.1.6.2. Radio Frequency Identification (RFID). To increase transportation visibility
       for the Combatant Commanders (COCOMs), the DOD directed the use of active
       RFID tags on cargo moving to, within, and from the COCOMs area of responsibility
       (AOR) through the Defense Transportation System (DTS), to include port-built air
       transportation pallets. In response to this tasking, RFID tag write capability was
       added to GATES. GATES obtains any available content level detail data directly
       from the Defense Logistics Agency E- Business Server upon in-check of cargo at an
       aerial port. GATES then allows writing both Transportation Control and Movement
       Document (TCMD) data and content level detail data to the active RFID tag during
       pallet Close and Process (CAP) procedures. GATES then sends the combined data to
       the Army’s Radio Frequency (RF) ITV (RF-ITV) server. During surface movements,
       the RFID-tagged pallet passes choke-point interrogators that relay movement
       information to the RF-ITV server. The server matches the RFID tag ID with the
       TCMD and requisition data for near-real time ITV and TAV to anyone with an
       account for the RF-ITV server.
       3.1.6.3. GATES Enterprise Management Services (GEMS). GEMS is a query tool
       that provides ports and other system users a capability to easily access both current
       and historical GATES data. Available as an assigned role to a regular GATES
       account, GEMS provides pre-formatted queries and allows for the development of
       additional queries based on new functional requirements. The information displayed
       by GEMS comes directly from either legacy databases, real time data from Central
       Site servers, or aerial port servers depending on what data is being requested.
       3.1.6.4. GATES Mobile Workstation (GMW). The GMWs are designed to provide
       mobile GATES functionality within the warehouse or ramp environment. There are
       two configurations of the GMW: one is designed for mounting in a vehicle (GMW 1)
       and the other is mounted on a wheeled cart (GMW 2). The cart provides the following
       equipment; WLAN capable computer with Common Access Card (CAC) reader,
       keyboard, and optical mouse; 19 inch monitor; military shipping label printer with
       Universal Serial Bus (USB) cable; pallet placard LaserJet printer with USB cable;
       Savi RFID Tag Docking Station; handheld imager with 15 foot cable. The vehicle
       mounted configuration consists of a Universal RAM-mount vehicle assembly, a
       wireless tablet computer, and an inkjet printer with USB cable.
10                                                AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013


        3.1.6.4.1. To fully capitalize on the capabilities of the GMWs, as well as other
        advanced wireless capabilities, wireless connections are required. The expectation
        is for GATES to run on the base CITSGEN II wireless infrastructure instead of a
        dedicated GATES network. Units need to submit a Cyberspace Infrastructure
        Planning System/Work Order Management (CIPS/WOM) request with the local
        base communications organization requesting GATES hardware be part of the
        installation's wireless infrastructure. Inform HQ AMC/A4TI of any difficulty with
        obtaining wireless connections for GATES.
     3.1.6.5. Flight Information Display System (FIDS). FIDS is used to provide
     passengers information about arriving flights, departing flights, and general
     information about the aerial port. All three of these components can be displayed on
     the same monitors in a revolving format or on separate monitors throughout the
     terminal and/or various base-wide locations. Refer to AMCI 24-101, Volume 14,
     Paragraph 20 for further guidance concerning use of FIDS.
     3.1.6.6. Printers. GATES uses a variety of printers to provide necessary output
     documentation. These printers include: military shipment label printers, (e.g., desk
     top and portable shoulder- carried), baggage tag and boarding pass printers, and
     standard laser printers for printing reports, manifests, placards, etc. The most
     common printers utilized throughout the GATES architecture are the PM4i Intermec
     brand that are pre-formatted programmed specifically for GATES cargo and
     passenger processing functions.
     3.1.6.7. Data Processing Center (DPC) Server. The DPC server is a GATES server
     that allows AMC’s DPC to view all aerial port manifest registers and input manifest
     data as required for any aerial port worldwide. Only DPC personnel located within
     HQ AMC/A4TID at Scott AFB have access to this server. The server business rules
     allow manifesting data to stay active beyond the normal purge rules found on other
     GATES servers. This allows the DPC to make corrections to manifest discrepancies
     when aerial port personnel are not able to ensure accurate data is passed on for billing
     actions. Additionally, this server is capable of opening passenger flights up to
     eighteen hours after departure when other GATES servers are locked out at 1 hour.
     The DPC server is robust enough to handle a multitude cargo and passenger
     transactions. Should an aerial port be forced to utilize manual processing procedures
     a GATES trouble ticket must be initiated stating GATES will be unavailable for 24
     hours or longer and there are multiple active missions to be worked during that time
     that the aerial port cannot keep pace with. During that time, the capability exists for
     the effected location to e-mail or fax the data to the DPC after obtaining approval
     from HQ AMC/A4TI, wherein the movement data can be entered into the GATES
     system as if from the originating APC. This provides for continuous ITV on cargo
     and pax, allows processing by down line GATES stations without having to manually
     input the data themselves, and captures appropriate data for billing purposes. Official
     use of the DPC for unit move purposes must either come through approved taskings
     from 618th AOC (TACC)/A3M or approval through HQ AMC/A4TI. Normal
     procedures call for the unit to request utilization of the DPC up through their
     MAJCOM to USTRANSCOM who will then contact one of these appropriate
     agencies for approval/denial for the DPC to become involved. Normally for AMC
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  11


         owned and operated terminals, HQ AMC/A4TI will determine the
         approval/disapproval for the use of the DPC. Not all instances are approved
         automatically; once approved, the DPC will contact the unit with standardized
         formats for the required documents they will take over the processes for. The DPC is
         a 24/7 agency that can be contacted at DSN 312-779-0045 and/or org.amca4-
         70@us.af.mil
  3.2. Additional Transportation Systems. In addition to GATES, there are other automated
  information systems which impact AMC transportation. There are many systems which
  interface with GATES, but the following systems are those that an AMC transporter is most
  likely to interact with.
     3.2.1. Cargo Movement Operations System (CMOS). CMOS automates and
     streamlines base-level cargo movement processes during peacetime and deployment
     cargo and passenger movements during contingencies. CMOS provides an integrated
     transportation capability in routine, deployment, and sustainment operations by
     employing the same DOD and Service shipment policies and procedures in peace and
     war. GATES provides CMOS with information about on hand cargo that is ready for
     surface transportation. CMOS will provide GATES with information on the load
     planning and surface shipment of that cargo.
     3.2.2. The Transportation Coordinators’ – Automated Information for Movements
     System II (TC-AIMS II). An Army system, TC-AIMS II provides an integrated
     information transportation system capability for routine deployment, sustainment, and
     redeployment/retrograde operations. TC-AIMS II automates the processes of planning,
     organizing, coordinating, and controlling unit-related deployments and sustainment. It
     also automates the day-to-day Installation Transportation Officer/Transportation
     Management Officer operations, redeployment and retrograde operations in support of
     the Defense Transportation System. TC-AIMS II provided cargo air, surface and
     passenger manifest files to GATES where in turn GATES send cargo air, surface and
     passenger manifest files to TC-AIMS II for processing.
     3.2.3. Mechanized Materials Handling System (MMHS). MMHS is a fully automated
     pallet storage system. It allows input commands from authorized computer terminals,
     attached control panels, scales, and laser scanners. The MMHS sorts and stores 463L
     pallets for efficient and safe retrieval. The MMHS system retrieves, rotates, and
     sequences pallets as directed, based on a given load plan. GATES will send a file
     containing one or more records with information about pallets, load plans, and/or
     missions to MMHS. MMHS reads that file and applies that information to its database.
     As pallets are stored in the MMHS, it creates files containing one or more records with
     information about each pallet.
     3.2.4. Integrated Computerized Deployment System (ICODES). ICODES provides
     for a single, cross-service, planning and execution system for aircraft, rail travel, and sea
     vessel load planning and stowage. It is engineered to provide users with intelligent
     decision/support during administrative, preposition, and humanitarian assistance
     operations. ICODES integrates multiple expert programs, knowledge bases, and
     graphical user interfaces within a computer-based distributed cooperative operational
     environment. GATES and ICODES utilize a two-way interface enabling a load planner to
12                                                    AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013


     extract air eligible cargo from GATES for import into ICODES to safely and efficiently
     plan air movements. Once this is accomplished, ICODES then returns the cargo sequence
     numbers back to GATES so load planners can identify the order at which cargo will be
     loaded.
     3.2.5. Integrated Data Environment (IDE)/Global Transportation Network (GTN)
     Convergence (IGC). IGC provides DOD with an integrated set of networked, end-to-
     end visibility, deployment and distribution capabilities. IGC collects and integrates
     transportation information from selected transportation systems. The resulting
     information is provided to the SECDEF, Combatant Commanders, USTRANSCOM, its
     component commands, and other DOD customers to support transportation planning and
     decision- making during peace and war. The end goal of IGC is to effectively support the
     Joint Force Commander’s ability to make decisions based on actionable logistics
     information. GATES employs a one-way interface with only unclassified ITV data being
     output for IGC account holders to query and view.
     3.2.6. Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segments
     (DCAPES). DCAPES supports USAF war planners and commanders in performing the
     tasks required to plan, source, mobilize, deploy, sustain, redeploy, and reconstitute forces
     for deliberate and crisis operations. DCAPES produces two files for GATES. The first
     file contains data for passengers to be booked on a flight. The second file contains Unit
     Line Number (ULN) information. These files are imported into GATES via a manual, air
     gap interface.
     3.2.7. Global Decision Support System (GDSS). GDSS is an IGC interface system that
     provides aircraft scheduling and execution information. Additionally, it is an AMC
     migration system that records and displays airlift schedules, aircraft arrivals and
     departures, and limited aircraft status. It provides executive level decision support.
     GATES interfaces with GDSS to provide aircraft load data, where then GDSS delivers
     critical air mission information.
  3.2.8. Advanced Passenger Information System (APIS). APIS facilitates the collection by
  Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) of certain information from private and commercial
  aircraft and vessels on all passengers and crew members that arrive in or depart from (and, in
  the case of aviation crew, fly over) the United States. CBP uses the information to identify
  those passengers and crew who may pose a higher risk to border, transportation or public
  security, may be a terrorist or suspected terrorist or affiliated with or suspected of being
  affiliated with terrorists, may be inadmissible, may be a person of interest, or may otherwise
  be engaged in activity in violation of U.S. law, or the subject of wants or warrants. GATES
  employs a one- way interface with APIS. Each time a passenger manifest is closed at any
  GATES location throughout the world, GATES immediately and automatically formats an
  Electronic Data Interchange for Administration, Commerce, and Trade (EDIFACT) file and
  sends an that electronic message to the Department of Homeland Security’s router, which
  uploads the file into APIS. This message includes all passengers manifested on a particular
  flight. That list of passengers is prescreened against the CBP “No Fly” list. Once vetting is
  complete APIS returns an email confirmation with the status of each flight to an APIS
  NOTIFICATION email org box in addition to interaction with the DHS National Targeting
  Center (NTC) that is manned 24/7 in preparation for possible immediate response to a “No
  Fly” alert.
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                 13


      3.2.9. Radio Frequency Intransit Visibility (RF-ITV) Server. The RF-ITV Server is
      the worldwide network of RFID and satellite equipment (write stations, servers,
      computers and software) used for tracking identified shipments within the military supply
      chain. Additionally, it provides in-transit visibility information required by the DoD,
      North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) allies, and coalition partners of the United
      States. The RF-ITV system traces the identity, status, and location of cargo from origin
      to destination via a worldwide infrastructure of RFID hardware and software. The RF-
      ITV system combines data from the fielded RFID and satellite devices and redistributes it
      to various other systems, one of the more important ones being IGC.
      3.2.10. Finance Air Clearance Transportation System (FACTS). FACTS is a Navy
      sponsored web-automated information system for the clearance of DoD air eligible cargo
      moving through the DTS and provides funds management and budgeting functions to
      facilitate the tracking and management of transportation funds. FACTS interfaces with
      GATES to provide advanced TCMD data for approval into the DTS and assists to
      forecast inbound cargo workload for aerial port personnel. GATES, in return, passes the
      movement status of the cargo back to FACTS so shippers may be informed on the status
      of their cargo.
      3.2.11. DEAMS Component Billing System (DCBS). DCBS is utilized to apply
      business rules and rates to transportation data received from GATES and other
      transportation systems for the purpose of facilitating reimbursement to the Transportation
      Working Capital Fund (TWCF). Transportation data is then summarized and forwarded
      to the DEAMS accounting system where customers of the TWCF are invoiced for airlift
      services rendered.
      3.2.12. Defense Supply System (DSS). DSS is the Defense Logistics Agency’s (DLA)
      primary system to process and manage depot cargo destined for aerial ports of
      embarkation (APOEs). The primary focus of DSS is to provide pre-built cargo data to
      aerial ports prior to reception for the ability to forecast appropriate airlift in advance,
      hasten the processing time of building cargo at the aerial port, and provide an efficient
      process to streamline outbound cargo movement. DSS, like FACTS, provides advanced
      TCMD elements to help forecast airlift and streamline cargo processes ahead of time for
      aerial ports.
      3.2.13. Logistics Module (LOGMOD). LOGMOD is an unclassified, responsive, on-
      line system providing Air Force warfighters with the ability to plan, execute, accelerate,
      or redirect to a higher priority location the deployment of Air Force combat units for
      accomplishing real-time combat operations anywhere in the world. LOGMOD is used by
      Air Force, Major Command (MAJCOM), and base-level logistics planners; and base-
      level unit deployment managers (UDMs) to plan and execute deployment, reception, and
      redeployment of personnel, supplies, and equipment to meet various exercises,
      contingencies, and wartime tasking worldwide. LOGMOD will provide GATES with
      cargo data related to unit moves for deployments and exercises. The cargo data is
      provided as a text file that is then loaded by a GATES user accessing the LOGMOD tab
      of the Data Import Center.
4. GATES Procedures and Policies
   4.1. Commissioning RGATES/DGATES Servers
14                                                    AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013


     4.1.1. Procedures. The following procedures have been developed to ensure all
     necessary actions are accomplished prior to an RGATES/DGATES site being
     commissioned. If these steps are not accomplished the server will not be deployed. Un-
     reconciled airlift manifests can possibly be dropped between GATES and DEAMS
     Component Billing Systems (DCBS) or manifest numbers may be overwritten by the
     deploying unit mistakingly destroying historical data.
  4.1.2. Business Rules.
         4.1.2.1. The RGATES/DGATES deployment team must submit a Trouble Ticket
         (TT) to the GATES C2 Call Center NLT 5 days prior to departure to determine server
         availability and data management. The TT must request for a Data Processing Center
         (DPC) review of the GATESDP server or other DPC owned servers prior to
         deployment. When the DPC receives GATES TT for server review, they will
         determine if the aerial port code (APC) server being requested is owned by the DPC
         or a Contingency Response Wing (CRW).
         4.1.2.2. DPC owned server/APC. The DPC team-lead (DSN 779-8364/7734) and
         deployment team lead must contact each other to discuss ownership responsibilities
         and review server instructions. A Memorandum of Agreement must be signed by the
         CRW or Aerial Port Commander with the understanding that once the DGATES
         server is given to the deployment team, all port operations will belong to them.
         Responsibilities include:
            4.1.2.2.1. Take ownership of inbound/outbound missions not part of deployment
            tasking, Complete all cargo and passengers manifests, In-check air and surface
            cargo, Ensure missions are closed Adjust cargo, passenger, and surface manifest
            running counters, Clear cargo bay and grid reports, Ensure all suspended
            passengers are processed, Ensure manifest registers are clear of unprocessed
            manifests, Work any TTs through end results, Create and file Consolidated Flight
            Packages (CFP) for each mission
         4.1.2.3. CRW owned server/APC. The DPC team lead and deployment team lead
         must contact each other to determine DGATES instructions. It would be beneficial to
         have the DGATES box connected to a communication system during this discussion.
         DPC will review GATESDP server and provide cargo and passenger manifest
         numbers used, review/clear outstanding data and provide training on how to update
         the passenger running counters. If the server is not available during this review, the
         deployment team is responsible for running counter updates once the server is
         connected to a communication system. Deployment team lead will be responsible for
         TTs needed to replace and reset over written manifest data if the counters are not
         reset. CFPs will be created and filed with deployment team home aerial port.
  4.2. Decommissioning RGATES/DGATES Servers.
     4.2.1. Procedures. The following procedures have been developed to ensure all
     necessary actions are accomplished when an RGATES/DGATES site is decommissioned.
     If these steps are not accomplished, the server will not be ready to be deployed and airlift
     manifests may remain in an un-reconciled status, thus preventing AMC from collecting
     airlift revenue. There are two distinct phases that must occur. The first concerns
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  15


     completion of the business rules associated with decommissioning a site while the second
     involves the actual decommissioning of the RGATES/DGATES server and return of the
     server to a deployable configuration. The business rules need to be accomplished before
     the server itself is decommissioned.
     4.2.2. Business Rules
        4.2.2.1. RGATES/DGATES sites must contact HQ AMC/A4TID Transportation
        Data Processing Center (DPC) (DSN 779-0045/Commercial (618) 229-0045 or e-
        mail to org.amca4-70@scott.af.mil not later than 5 days prior to decommissioning
        the servers/closing down locations, or as soon as possible in the case of a short notice
        site closure to ensure manifest registers for that location are reconciled. The following
        information must be provided:
            4.2.2.1.1. Name of the data records representative currently on station Home
            station Next station, if not classified Incoming Contingency Response Group
            (CRG) representative or replacement unit
        4.2.2.2. Personnel at RGATES/DGATES sites must provide information on the last
        passenger/cargo manifest number/reference generated at the five day point and follow
        up with a tentative list not later than twenty-four hours prior to departure with the last
        manifest references to be created for final mission departures. This will let the DPC
        know status prior to actual closure.
        4.2.2.3. Personnel at RGATES/DGATES sites must provide the number of over/short
        (O/S) shipments and the status of shipments (Tracer Action or Transportation
        Discrepancy Report (TDR) action in progress).
        4.2.2.4. Personnel at RGATES/DGATES sites must provide the DPC with any
        outstanding trouble ticket numbers and situations causing trouble ticket action, if
        required. (NOTE: This provides the DPC the ability and opportunity to compare what
        is left in the user system versus what can be seen in GATES Central Site.)
        4.2.2.5. Review all cargo/passenger reports and clear all manifests prior to
        decommissioning of the site/server. There should be minimal follow up actions for
        the DPC to clear for departing units in the event processes cannot be completed due
        to trouble ticket action or assault departures. The DPC retains the right to send data
        back to deployment teams for further quality checks and/or validation. Forward all
        pertinent documentation to the DPC in these instances only. Otherwise, all
        documentation will be sent to the appropriate staging facility upon departure, or as
        soon as possible thereafter.
        4.2.2.6. Deployment Team Lead, WASO, or CRW will review RGATES/DGATES
        deployment user logins in “Security Services”, “Site User List Report”. Responsible
        lead will delete all user logins from their server prior to deactivation and turnover
        back to the DPC. Not deleting user logins from the DGATES/RGATES server will
        leave delinquent user names on GATES-Central Site and will show on Delinquent
        User Account Report next time server is deployed.
     4.2.3. Server Decommissioning. The procedures for decommissioning a DGATES
     server are found in the GATES Installation and Operations Document (GIOD), Appendix
16                                                   AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013


     V, Deployable GATES Installation, Registration, and Notification. The user should refer
     to the GIOD, which is available on the web at URL (https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-LG-
     AM- 73/default.aspx) to ensure the most current procedures are being followed. This
     action should only be performed if the DGATES location has completed the mission and
     the server needs to be cleaned and prepared for the next deployment. The server will not
     be decommissioned until all outstanding manifests are reconciled.
        4.2.3.1. If a server is no longer going to be used as a GATES server, sanitation of all
        data from all storage devices that contained GATES data must be accomplished IAW
        AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security. GATES data contains sensitive
        government/DoD information as well as individual privacy act information and this
        data must be completely wiped from GATES systems once a server is no longer used
        for GATES applications.
  4.3. GATES Change Control Process
     4.3.1. Change Mechanisms. Three mechanisms exist where GATES users can make
     changes to the system and the GATES documentation. The three mechanisms are the
     BCR, SPR, and the DPR processes.
        4.3.1.1. Baseline Change Requests (BCR) are used to make enhancements to the
        system or to change the way the system operates due to new or changing
        requirements. GATES users formulate an idea on how to improve GATES
        functionality and complete the BCR form. The form and instructions for completing
        the form can be found through the HQ AMC/A4TI web pages at URL
        https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
        af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/gates/hello.html and looking under the
        GATES Community of Practice (CoP) Homepage Links located in the left frame
        menu. When completed, the form is submitted to the GATES Functional Managers at
        HQ AMC/A4TI at Scott AFB. Since any change to the GATES software takes time
        and funding, and must compete with other validated requirements, a formal BCR
        process has been established to ensure critical changes are addressed first. This
        process is described below in paragraph 4.3.2.
        4.3.1.2. Software Problem Reports (SPR) are used to correct deficiencies in the
        GATES software when the system is in use but is not operating as it should. The form
        and instructions for completing the form can be found through the HQ AMC/A4TI
        website at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/
        gates/hello.html and looking under the GATES Community of Practice (CoP)
        Homepage Links located in the left frame menu. It should be noted that most SPRs
        that result from a user reporting a problem to the help desk, and in the subsequent
        investigation of the trouble ticket, it is determined that a problem exists in the
        software code. Rarely, if ever, will a user submit an SPR directly. In most cases, the
        developer will document the required fix action on the SPR and submit it to
        configuration management.
        4.3.1.3. Document Problem Reports (DPR) are used to correct errors in the GATES
        documentation, such as the GIODs or user manuals. If users find an error within the
        realm of GATES documentation, the DPR should be completed. The form and
        instructions for completing the form can be found through the HQ AMC/A4TI web
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  17


        pages at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/
        gates/hello.html and looking under the GATES Community of Practice (CoP)
        Homepage Links located in the left frame menu. When completed, the form is
        submitted to the GATES Functional Managers at HQ AMC/A4TI at Scott AFB. The
        GATES Functional Managers will validate the DPR and submit to the GATES PMO
        for further processing.
     4.3.2. GATES Software Change Process. The time from BCR submission until the
     change is fielded can take several months or years to accomplish depending on the level
     of software development, coordination between the services, and depth of processes that
     must change accordingly. Other factors that weigh into this process are the complexity of
     the BCR, the priority the BCR is given, the point in the GATES release cycle that the
     BCR is submitted, as well as funding considerations. All these elements have an impact
     on the length of time it takes a change to reach the field. The following is a description of
     the steps in the BCR process which every request must go through.
        4.3.2.1. BCR submission. The BCR process is initially written when a user completes
        a BCR form and submits it to the GATES Functional Managers within HQ
        AMC/A4TI for consideration. In the Project Impact section of the BCR, clearly state
        what will happen if the requirement is not implemented or how much time and money
        will be saved if the change is approved. In addition, mention if the BCR is being
        written due to the result of a Lean initiative or Terminal 21 (T21) event. The BCR
        should also contain a few words on the submitter’s expectations of what the change
        should accomplish. This is where the user states exactly what he/she expects to see or
        have GATES do when the change is implemented. This helps the software developer
        understand the intent of the requested change. Without this information, the BCR may
        not be adequately assessed by the headquarters air transportation functional
        community. The completed BCR can be mailed to HQ AMC/A4TI, 402 Scott Dr,
        Unit 2A2, Scott AFB, IL 62225-5308; faxed to DSN 576-1257 or commercial (618)
        256-1257 or e-mailed to org.amca4-69@us.af.mil If at any time a user has a question
        concerning this process, HQ AMC/A4TI can be contacted at DSN 312-779-8174.
        4.3.2.2. BCR processing. The GATES Functional Manager(s) will review the
        submitted BCR, log it, and provide the other A4T branches a copy for their review
        and coordination. The branch which has responsibility for the BCR, e.g. A4TC will
        take ownership of cargo related BCRs, will ensure the BCR does not violate any
        established policies or business processes and perform a sanity check to ensure the
        BCR is a valid and necessary change. They will ensure the BCR is clearly written,
        and if necessary, contact the submitter for any required clarifications. Other branches
        will be provided a copy of the BCR to review and provide A4TI feedback as required.
        If the lead branch does not concur with the BCR, they will provide the GATES
        functional their rationale for non-concurring. From there, the GATES Functionals
        will notify all the branches, as well as the submitter, that the BCR will not be
        processed and provide the rationale. BCRs can be disapproved for a number of
        reasons, e.g., it is a duplicate of another BCR, the change isn’t necessary, the change
        is not possible, or the change violates established policy. If the lead branch concurs
        with the BCR, they will make any necessary modifications and return it to the
        GATES Functional to submit the BCR to configuration management where it is
18                                                 AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013


     assigned an official number. The GATES Functional Managers will then provide all
     the branches, as well as the BCR submitter, a copy of the final BCR so they may
     track its progress through the development cycle if desired.
     4.3.2.3. BCR meets the GATES FMB. As the GATES budget is limited, it is
     important to take all the BCR submissions and rank them in priority order so the most
     important changes can be addressed first. The GATES FMB reviews all functional
     requirement BCRs to prioritize those affecting the user/functional communities. First
     the GATES Functional Managers analyze the BCRs prior to the FMB. An internal
     prioritization is accomplished and the prioritized list is then submitted to all branches
     within A4T. The formal FMB meets as required to discuss and finalize the priorities
     and this prioritized list is then submitted to the GATES CCB.
     4.3.2.4. BCR meets the GATES CCB. The validated BCR is forwarded to the
     GATES CCB whose primary function is to manage all system baseline change
     requests. The CCB is made up of the PMO, System Manager (SM), the Functional
     Managers (FMs), Test Manager (TM), Configuration Manager (CM), and
     representatives such as Database Administrator (DBA), System Administrator (SA),
     Information/Protection/Security, Information Assurance Manager (IAM) Help Desk,
     and software engineers. The GATES CCB reviews and validates all new requirements
     and change requests to the existing GATES software and hardware baseline. The
     CCB works to prioritize developmental/ maintenance activity and change requests
     based upon system requirements and cost. In some cases, BCR implementation will
     be deferred because it’s too late to incorporate the change into the next GATES
     software release or is deemed too costly to be accommodated by the GATES program
     budget at the present time. At the end of this process the BCRs are allocated to a
     respective GATES release and given a tentative timeline for fielding. Since GATES
     also incorporates both surface and air requirements in addition to the Defense Courier
     Division, a Joint Functional Requirements Board (JFRB), chaired by the United
     States Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM), has been chartered to appeal and
     adjudicate competing functional requirements between the three functional areas
     within GATES.
     4.3.2.5. Develop Software/Create Release Documentation. The GATES program
     manager, in coordination with the functional manager, develops the software to
     enable the requested change to GATES. This process usually involves several
     discussions between the developer and the GATES functional managers to clarify the
     requirement and ensure the change is effectively incorporated into the release.
     Documentation, such as software and user manuals, is also updated to reflect the
     change.
     4.3.2.6. Testing. Once the software is developed, it is provided to the government for
     testing to ensure it functions securely and according to applicable DISA Security
     Technical Implementation Guides in addition to relative documented requirements.
     The software is independently tested during Formal Qualification Testing (FQT) via
     the Enterprise Security Support contract within the GPSC. When the software passes
     FQT testing, the GATES Functional Managers, supported by GATES users from the
     aerial ports, perform customer acceptance testing (CAT) to ensure the software
     functions as required. Errors are documented, sent back to the developer for
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                 19


         corrections, and the software is tested again. Once all applications work according to
         the requirement, the software is accepted.
         4.3.2.7. Authorize Release for Fielding. Following successful testing, the submitter’s
         idea will be incorporated into a GATES release and fielded for all GATES users
         worldwide. In most cases, this will occur at the time of the next version release of the
         GATES software which will incorporate all other approved and newly developed
         BCRs as well.
  4.4. GATES Access Process. The following procedures apply to air transportation access
  requests only. Customers requiring GATES for SDDC or DCD related missions must contact
  host functional communities for access. Access to Air GATES requires a legitimate need and
  requests must meet the criteria outlined in the following paragraphs. To request approval, the
  requester completes the appropriate GATES Access Request Letter Template which can be
  found on the A4TI web site at URL: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/
  d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/gates/hello.html. The following paragraphs provide specific
  details on obtaining access.
     4.4.1. Aerial Port GATES/RGATES
         4.4.1.1. GATES installation at an aerial port is significantly more complicated since
         the GATES application is web-enabled, not web-based. This distinction requires
         modification to the GATES infrastructure as a GATES web server is installed at
         aerial port locations. The user’s Internet Explorer on his or her computer connects to
         the local server and not directly to the central servers at Scott AFB. This architecture
         was chosen to allow the port personnel to continue to operate even if outside
         communications (internet capability from the aerial port server to Scott AFB) are cut
         off. Once communications are restored, the server automatically replicates data back
         to the central servers allowing the loss of communications to possibly go unnoticed
         depending on how long the lines were down. Modifications to the GATES
         infrastructure may require the purchase and installation of servers; therefore, these
         requests must be fully justified at the appropriate levels.
         4.4.1.2. AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, and AFI 24-114, Small
         Air Terminal Operations requires the use of CMOS (or GATES if the specific
         location has GATES already) for deployment of Air Force forces except at AMC
         strategic aerial ports where GATES may be used instead. Strategic aerial ports are
         identified in Defense Transportation Regulation 4500.9-R, Part III, Mobility,
         Appendix M. CMOS is the Air Force standard system for deployment. One of the
         primary purposes of GATES is for Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF)
         reimbursement on channel traffic. The cost of operating GATES is recouped through
         TWCF, so installation of GATES at non-TWCF generating locations is approved
         solely on a case-by-case basis.
         4.4.1.3. The request process for GATES/RGATES begins with the requester
         completing the appropriate GATES/RGATES Access Request Letter Template. Air
         Force organizations must coordinate with their Major Command’s (MAJCOM) or
         higher headquarters’ transportation division as well as HQ USAF/ILGD before
         submitting the letter to HQ AMC/A4TI. Without concurrence of both the MAJCOM
         and HQ USAF, the request will be denied. Non-Air Force organizations must work
20                                                     AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013


        requests through their service major command and USTRANSCOM.
        GATES/RGATES will not be installed at non-Air Force locations without the
        approval of USTRANSCOM. If approved, the GATES Functional Managers will
        work with the GATES PMO and the affected sites to coordinate the installation of
        GATES/RGATES.
     4.4.2. Track and Trace. Track and Trace request letters may be sent directly to HQ
     AMC/A4TI. Since IGC is the DOD approved system for ITV, requests for GATES Track
     and Trace must include a statement as to why IGC will not meet the requester’s needs. If
     approved, the requester is sent an e-mail notifying them of the approval with the WASO
     appointment letter template attached. The requester fills in the required information and
     has the letter signed by the commander or equivalent, e.g. Division Chief, Operations
     Officer, Flight Commander, etc. This signature may be accomplished either by pen
     (preferred) or digitally with the CAC. A signed copy must be maintained at each site as a
     source document. Once signed, the appointed WASO sends the letter to the GATES
     Security Office at 208@us.af.mil attached to a digitally signed e-mail. The GATES SSO
     creates the WASO accounts and sends the new WASOs their login instructions. The new
     WASOs then create any additional Track and Trace accounts, to include replacement
     WASO accounts, required in their organization.
     4.4.3. Passenger Reservations. Requests to gain access to GATES for Passenger
     Reservations must be sent to HQ AMC/A4TI for consideration. The Defense
     Transportation Regulation (DTR) Part I, Passenger Movement, states it is DOD policy
     that official travel providers/Transportation Officers (TOs) will make AMC channel
     airlift seat reservations directly in the AMC passenger seat reservation system, GATES.
     Access to GATES to make passenger reservations will not be approved for any
     organization not designated as a transportation office or official travel provider. All other
     organizations must work through their local/supporting transportation officer for
     passenger reservation support. The request letter must include the activity’s routing
     indicator or contain a statement that a routing ID needs to be assigned. AMC in
     conjunction with 618th AOC (TACC) will assign a routing ID if the request is approved.
     AMC will staff the request within HQ AMC/A4T and, if approved, the requester is sent
     an e-mail notifying them of the approval with the WASO appointment letter template
     attached. The requester fills in the required information and has the letter signed by the
     commander or equivalent, e.g. Division Chief, Operations Officer, Flight Commander,
     etc. This signature may be accomplished either by pen (preferred) or digitally with the
     CAC. A signed copy must be maintained at each site as a source document. Once signed,
     the appointed WASO sends the letter to the GATES SSO at 208@us.af.mil attached to a
     digitally signed e-mail. The GATES SSO creates the WASO accounts and sends the new
     WASOs their login instructions. The new WASOs then create any additional passenger
     reservations accounts, to include replacement WASO accounts, required in their
     organization.
     4.4.4. GATES Enterprise Management System (GEMS). Access to GEMS is via a
     regular GATES account with an associated GEMS role. If the requester’s organization
     already has GATES or GEMS users, the person requiring GEMS should contact the
     unit’s GATES WASO to obtain a GATES account with the GEMS role. If the requester
     is not at a location with a GATES WASO, they must submit the appropriate access
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  21


     request letter requesting GEMS directly to HQ AMC/A4TI. If approved, the requester is
     sent an e-mail notifying them of the approval with the WASO appointment letter
     template attached. The requester fills in the required information and has the letter signed
     by the commander or equivalent, e.g. Division Chief, Operations Officer, Flight
     Commander, etc. This signature may be accomplished either by pen (preferred) or
     digitally with the CAC. A signed copy must be maintained at each site as a source
     document. Once signed, the appointed WASO sends the letter to the GATES SSO at
     208@us.af.mil attached to a digitally signed e-mail. The GATES SSO creates the WASO
     accounts and sends the new WASOs their login instructions. The new WASOs then
     create any additional GEMS accounts, to include replacement WASO accounts, required
     in their organization.
         4.4.4.1. GEMS accounts must be placed into the appropriate GEMS group in order
         for the user to access the port data required and to also allow sharing of reports with
         other members of the same GEMS group. At an aerial port, the GEMS user will
         normally be restricted to the data at his or her port. At other locations, e.g. Combatant
         Commands, MAJCOMs, Groups, Wings, etc., the GEMS user may be authorized
         access to more than one aerial port’s data in order to retrieve data from all ports under
         their responsibility. When the WASO adds the GEMS role to a GATES user ID, the
         WASO can select the group the user ID belongs in. A WASO can only add a user ID
         to a group they themselves are in. New GEMS locations require creation of a new
         group which is accomplished in coordination with HQ AMC/A4TI during the initial
         request for GEMS access.
  4.5. Work Area Security Officer (WASO). The WASO is responsible for managing
  GATES accounts at the site as well as ensuring GATES security issues are taken care of at
  his/her location. A GATES user with the “sybase_acct_mgr” role has full WASO privileges
  and is able to use most menu options of the GATES Security Services application. The
  “sybase_acct_asst” role only allows the WASO to lock, unlock, and reset user accounts. The
  two roles must never be assigned together. There is no limit to the number of WASOs
  allowed at a site, though, for effective account management, the “sybase_acct_mgr” role
  should be limited to a select few. As a general rule, at least one WASO must be available to
  reset accounts at all times. It is very important that the WASOs keep their e-mail addresses
  current within the GATES system as this is the primary method used by the GATES
  Functional Managers and GATES Security Office to contact them on GATES related issues.
  The e-mail address is easily updated using “Security Services” and the “modify account
  option”. In depth familiarization training for WASO procedures can be accomplished via the
  “Security Services” CBT located on the GATES CoP under the “Training” folder at the
  bottom of the page.
     4.5.1. WASO Appointment Process.
         4.5.1.1. Initial WASO appointment. WASOs must be appointed to the position. The
         initial WASO accounts at a new location are created by the GATES SSO. Personnel
         at the new location must obtain the WASO Appointment Letter Template from the
         GATES CoP website. A link to the WASO Appointment Letter Template can be
         accessed at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/
         gates/hello.html Fill in the requested information and have it signed by the commander or
         equivalent, e.g. Division Chief, Operations Officer, Flight Commander, etc. This
22                                                  AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013


        signature may be accomplished either by pen and ink (preferred) or digitally with the
        CAC. A signed copy must be maintained at each site as the source document. Once
        signed, send the letter to the GATES SSO at 208@us.af.mil attached to a digitally
        signed e-mail. The GATES SSO creates the WASO accounts and sends the new WASOs
        their login instructions.
        4.5.1.2. Subsequent WASO appointments. Once the GATES SSO has created the
        initial WASO accounts for a site, subsequent WASOs at the site are created and filed
        locally. The commander or equivalent, e.g. Division Chief, Operations Officer, Flight
        Commander, etc., must sign the WASO appointment letter before the WASO adds the
        WASO role (sybase_acct_mgr) to an existing account or creates a new user account
        with the WASO role. Additionally, the endorsed letter must match the system-
        generated letter. When existing WASOs no longer perform WASO duties, their
        WASO permissions/role must be removed. Only those users with the
        “sybase_acct_mgr” role are listed on the WASO appointment letter. Any time
        WASOs are added or deleted, a new WASO appointment letter is required to be
        signed and sent to the GATES SSO, via a digitally signed e-mail, to 208@us.af.mil
     4.5.2. User Account Management.
        4.5.2.1. The WASOs (user with “sybase_acct_mgr” role) and assistant WASOs (user
        with “sybase_acct_asst” role) are the only users allowed access to the GATES
        Security Services application. WASOs can only create, modify, delete, transfer, and
        receive user accounts at their location, e.g. a WASO at Dover AFB cannot
        accomplish account management for a user at Ramstein AB. Assistant WASOs can
        only reset user accounts. When a user no longer requires a GATES account, the
        account must be deleted within 24 hours after the user no longer requires access. The
        WASO needs to be notified when personnel leave the unit so a deletion or transfer
        can take place. WASOs should be on the unit’s out processing checklist to ensure
        they are aware of personnel leaving the unit. GATES users ordered to a temporary
        duty location or to PCS who have a requirement to use GATES at the new location
        may have their accounts transferred to the new location. This process is fully
        automated within GATES for personnel with WASO roles and permissions. To
        transfer accounts between GATES sites, authorized WASOs activate this process in
        the “Security Services” Application. WASOS losing the user account must designate
        the gaining Aerial Port Code (APC) for the users new GATES location. Once
        submitted, the WASO at the new location must log into GATES and initiate receiving
        the new account for their site. NOTE: Accounts assigned the WASO role are unable
        to be transferred. These accounts must be removed of the WASO capability before
        the transfer of the account may take place.
        4.5.2.2. Login IDs are auto generated from the user’s name and then given a number
        from 00 to 99 that ensures individual accountability. System audits and GATES
        transaction audits track each action accomplished in GATES. A user accounts are not
        shared between teams or groups; users must only use their personal account to
        maintain accountability. To activate a new user account, the user must complete a
        DD Form 2875, System Authorization Access Request (SAAR) with supervisor and
        security manager information filled out. This ensures the user is approved for
        GATES system access and use. Once complete, the DD Form 2875 is kept and stored
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                             23


        within the WASO office as a record of access granted for users created under that
        WASO. DD Forms 2875 must be accounted for in accordance with the disposition
        instructions located in Section E on the last page of that form.
        4.5.2.3. To be eligible for a GATES account, an individual must have as a minimum
        a favorable background investigation as well as documented Information Assurance
        (IA) training. Foreign nationals who require access to GATES in the performance of
        their duties are authorized a GATES account. They too require a favorable
        background investigation, i.e. National Agency Check or host nation equivalent and
        documented information assurance training. See paragraph 4.5.6. for specific
        procedures on providing foreign national access to GATES. User roles determine user
        permissions to access GATES information. As a rule, WASOs should assign the
        minimum number of roles required for the individual to accomplish his/her job. Refer
        to the GATES GIOD, Appendix P for specific information concerning roles.
        4.5.2.4. Every 30 days, the WASO will review account usage by printing a
        Delinquent User Account report from the GATES “security services” application.
        The WASO must contact delinquent users and determine if the user still requires
        GATES access. If access is no longer required, the WASO must delete the account.
        Any accounts showing 90 days of inactivity will be deleted automatically. If/when
        the TDY indicator is checked and the account still shows no use after 1 year, the
        account is removed completely from the system.
     4.5.3. Password Management. Authentication to GATES for all users will be
     accomplished via the CAC. Those users who still require a user ID and password for
     authentication will be linked to the P-Sync server where they will change their password
     and complete the password management process which will allow them to reset their own
     passwords in the future.
     4.5.4. User Revalidation
        4.5.4.1. GATES user accounts must be revalidated annually or more frequent
        intervals dictated by HQ AMC/A6IB, GATES PMO, to prevent unauthorized user
        access to the critical information within the system. This revalidation is a WASO
        responsibility and WASOs will be notified by the GATES Security Office when the
        revalidation is due, normally in January. Sound security practices require user
        accounts to be deleted when a user no longer requires access to GATES. In many
        cases, the WASO is unaware of those individuals who no longer require access to
        GATES and the annual revalidation ensures that accounts no longer required are
        deleted. The WASO must contact each GATES user on the site user list report,
        determine if they still require GATES, verify the roles they have are the minimum
        required, and validate personal information, i.e. last name, first name and middle
        initial, rank, DSN phone #, e-mail address, type of security clearance, date of
        clearance, type of investigation, and citizenship. The WASO must meet each user
        face-to- face or if the user is geographically separated, the user must send the WASO
        a digitally signed e-mail containing the user's data to validate the user's identity.
        Accounts no longer required must be deleted.
24                                                    AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013


        4.5.4.2. WASOs must also complete new foreign national (FN) access requests (AR)
        for any foreign nationals still requiring GATES following the procedures in
        paragraph 4.5.6.
        4.5.4.3. The WASO completes the user revalidation by selecting the User
        Revalidation application from the Security Services drop down window. The WASO
        should modify or delete accounts as required and accept those accounts that are
        required and up to date. The accepted accounts will then show as valid. Once valid,
        the WASO should select the “Send Revalidation Complete Message” from the
        activities drop down menu.
        4.5.4.4. The revalidation process includes review of the WASO appointment letters
        on file for accuracy; station file copies must match GATES-generated letter exactly.
     4.5.5. GATES Server Patches. Periodically, security auditors will scan a GATES
     server to determine if the server is up to date with the most recent network required
     security patches. If patches are missing, the site WASOs will be notified and provided a
     list of the patches required. It is extremely important to accomplish this as soon as
     possible and is a WASO responsibility to work with the local security/communications
     office to have the patches loaded onto the GATES server and notify the security auditors
     when finished. If the WASOs have any difficulty updating the server, the WASO must
     notify the security auditors for assistance. Normally, WASOs are given two weeks from
     the initial notification to complete the patch process, if/when that time is not sufficient
     WASOs may work with local communication agencies for assistance or extensions. In
     the event there has been no progress in the security upgrades, the security auditors
     located within the 375 CS at Scott AFB, IL will contact HQ AMC/A4TI for further
     assistance in obtaining unit compliance. Ultimately, if the security auditors determine
     enough time has been given and the security issues have not improved, GATES access
     for all users at the location is terminated. WASOs must then contact HQ AMC/A6IB,
     GATES Security Office for actions to reestablish their GATES capabilities.
     4.5.6. Foreign National Access Request (FNAR) to GATES. Foreign Nationals (non-
     US citizens) have been authorized by the Air Mobility Command Vice-Commander to
     have access to GATES. The following procedures have been developed to ensure foreign
     nationals who access GATES have a valid need-to-know and have been approved by the
     local commander to access the system.
        4.5.6.1. Before granting access to GATES for any foreign national, the requirements
        of AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management, AFI 31-501, Personnel
        Security Program Management, and AFSSI 8522, Access to Information Systems
        must be met. In summary, as a minimum, all foreign nationals must have a completed
        background investigation (National Agency Check with Inquiries (NACI) or host
        nation equivalent) and completed the annual Information Protection training. In
        addition, foreign nationals will be assigned the minimum number of roles required to
        accomplish their mission.
        4.5.6.2. The FNAR process is initiated within GATES as a part of the Foreign
        National Approval window; however, Commanders at the GATES site (O-4 or
        higher) must still authorize in writing foreign national access to GATES using the
        template available from the A4TI web pages at URL https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                 25


         af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/gates/hello.html. Multiple foreign
         national users can be listed on the same document. This document requires signature
         (may be a digital signature) by the command authority (O-4 or higher) at the GATES
         site. When signed, the WASO must e-mail these access requests, using a digitally
         signed e-mail, to GATES Security at 208@scott.af.mil. The document will require
         annual update and forwarding to GATES Security. WASO will be required to create
         the FN account, lock it, generate the FNAR, obtain the appropriate endorsement then
         send to GATES Security. These accounts remain locked until GATES Security has
         approved the request and notified the WASO via email.
         4.5.6.3. Foreign national access to GATES will be revalidated during the annual
         GATES User Revalidation. Commanders will re-accomplish and sign a new foreign
         national GATES access letter for each foreign national requiring access to GATES.
         HQ AMC/A4T will periodically conduct a random audit of foreign national accounts
         to ensure compliance with these procedures.
     4.5.7. Physical Security. The primary purpose of physical security is to prevent
     unauthorized access to equipment, facilities, material and information. Physical security
     includes physical barriers and control procedures. Physical security for GATES is
     provided by the entry control procedures of the facility where the equipment is housed
     and the application of standard resource protection measures. GATES equipment does
     not require any special physical security considerations beyond those specified in AFJI-
     31-102, Physical Security or AFSSI 8502, Organizational Computer Security for
     workstation security in the computing environment.
     4.5.8. Additional Information. Detailed, information related to WASO responsibilities
     can be located on line through the HQ AMC/A4TI web pages at URL
     https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/gates/hello.html
  4.6. GATES Training. Air Force Air Transportation personnel receive initial GATES
  training at their technical training school at Ft. Lee, VA upon entering the career field. This
  training is an introduction to GATES only. In-depth training on GATES is provided at the
  aerial port via on-the-job training. As GATES is used by more than just Air Force Air
  Transportation specialists, additional training material has been developed to assist other
  users in becoming proficient in the use of GATES. A brief description of training material
  available is provided in the following paragraphs. All GATES training concerns should be
  addressed to HQ AMC/A4TR at DSN 779-4592.
     4.6.1. The Air Force Integrated Learning Center. This organization has developed a
     web- based GATES training course. This course provides hands-on training to all users
     on using GATES to process passengers and cargo. The topics include outbound mission
     setup, cargo receipt and in-check, pallet processing, air and surface manifesting,
     passenger processing, and departing missions. A link to this training is available at
     https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/gates/
     usermanuals/hello.html. You must register for an account to take the course.
     4.6.2. On-line Training Servers. AMC has developed on-line training servers to
     provide familiarization training on using GATES. Two servers are available; one for
     Passenger Reservations / Track and Trace functionality and one for aerial port
     functionality. These servers can be accessed at the AMC/A4TI web page at URL:
26                                                   AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013


     https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/gates/
     usermanuals/hello.html. Instructions for using the training servers can be found by
     following the Training Server Instructions link.
     4.6.3. Stand-alone Training Server Software. Interactive training capability is
     required for transporters that are not located at operational GATES sites, e.g. Guard and
     Reserve personnel, and therefore have no hands on training capability available to them.
     These individuals often deploy to locations with GATES and require a way to become
     familiar with the system. The stand-alone training server software was developed to
     accommodate this requirement. Users are able to train on individual activities and units
     can conduct training scenarios that mirror normal port processes. The training server data
     base contains a snap shot of a real aerial port’s data that can be manipulated. Users can
     also generate new missions and cargo/pax data. The software supports a minimum of four
     client computers connecting to another computer acting as a GATES server. Software is
     available at URL https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/
     a4ti/gates/usermanuals/hello.html.
     4.6.4. Pamphlets. Several training pamphlets are also available to provide
     familiarization on GATES operation and can be located on line through the HQ
     AMC/A4TI web pages at URL https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/
     1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/gates/usermanuals/hello.html.
     4.6.5. DOD Information Awareness (IA) Training. In accordance with Chairman
     Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual (CJCSM) 6510.01 all DOD military, civilian, and
     contractors will receive documented IA training prior to receiving access to the network.
     Training required to obtain a network user license is standardized in the Information
     Assurance Awareness Training” Web-Based Training (WBT) course. Access the WBT
     on the current IA training site via the Air Force Portal. Successful completion of this
     course satisfies the Air Force training requirement for a network user license. Annual
     system security training is required IAW AFI 33-115 V2, Licensing Network Users and
     Certifying Network Professionals.
     4.6.6. Advanced Distributed Learning System (ADLS). Due to the increased numbers
     of GATES users worldwide, several computer-based training (CBT) modules were
     developed and placed on the AMC ADLS training website for easy access and to help
     keep GATES users trained appropriately. To access these CBTs, log onto the Air Force
     Portal and locate the ADLS quick-link. Once inside, locate the ADLS Gateway for
     access to the AMC course list where you will find various helpful GATES CBTs. Use
     keyword “GATES” for your search and the links to the CBTs will appear. The CBTs are
     an open enrollment opportunity where any and all users with access to the ADLS training
     website have access to the training modules.
  4.7. GATES Documentation. Additional, detailed information related to GATES can be
  located on line through the HQ AMC/A4TI web pages at URL https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
  af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/gates/hello.html. The GATES User Manuals
  GUMs), GIODs, WASO instructions, and other GATES related documentation can all be
  accessed through this link. These documents are important as they provide instruction on
  how your computer and/or internet browser need to be configured to work with GATES and
  also provide guidance on how to use the system.
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                         27


  4.8. GATES Help Desk. If a user experiences any problems with GATES, their first action
  should be to call the C2 Call Center at DSN 576-4949/Commercial 618-256-4949, Option 1
  to reach the GATES Help Desk, or e-mail to amctranshelpdesk@us.af.mil The user can set
28                                                    AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013


  the priority of the problem as either low, medium, high or critical. If the issue is causing a
  work stoppage, the user should inform the help desk. The GATES Help Desk will open a
  trouble ticket with the customer and pass the problem off to the appropriate agency for
  corrective action. Once corrected, the help desk will contact the submitter to determine if the
  issue was satisfactorily resolved prior to closing the ticket.




                                           LEE K. LEVY, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Director of Logistics
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                              29


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part II, Cargo Movement, February 2011
DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part III, Mobility, July 2011
DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part IV, Personal Property, August 2013
DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part V, Department of Defense Customs
and Borders Clearance Policies and Procedures, March 2011
DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part VI, Management and Control of
Intermodal Containers and System 463-L Equipment, September 2009
DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part VII, Human Remains Movement, July 2013
DOD 4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility, 1 November 1994
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program: Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 June 2000
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition-Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 December 2006
AFPD 24-1, Personnel Movement, 9 August 2012
AFPD24-2, Preparation and Movement of Air Force Materiel, 27 April 2011
AMCI 24-101 Vol 6, Transportation Documentation, Data Records and Reports, 23 July 2012
AMCI 24-101 Vol 9, Air Terminal Operations Center, 20 February 2013
AMCI 24-101, Vol 10, Military Airlift Fleet Service, 30 August 2012
AMCI 24-101 Vol 11, Cargo and Mail Policy, 27 February 2013
AMCI 24-101 Vol 14, Military Airlift Passenger Service, 21 April 2011
AMCI 24-101, Vol 22, Training Requirements for Aerial Port Operations, 31 December 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2875, System Authorization Access Request (SAAR)
Prescribed Forms
None

Abbreviations and Acronyms
2D—Two Dimensional
AB—Air Base
 30                                                 AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013


ACA—Airlift Clearance Authority
ADLS—Advanced Distributed Learning System
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AISS—Applications Infrastructural Systems Support
AIT—Automatic Identification Technology
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMCI—Air Mobility Command Instruction
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
APC—Aerial Port Code
APIS—Advanced Passenger Information System
APOE—Aerial Port of Embarkation
APOD—Aerial Port of Debarkation
BCR—Baseline Change Request
BGAN—Broadband Global Area Network
C&A—Certification & Accreditation
C2—Command and Control
CA—Central Analysis
CAC—Common Access Card
CAP—Close and Process
CAT—Customer Acceptance Testing
CCB—Configuration Control Board
CIO—Chief Information Officer
CIPS/WOM—Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System/Work Order Management
CMOS—Cargo Movement Operations System
COCOM—Combatant Commander
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
COTS—Commercial Off-The Shelf
CPRP—Chief Information Officer (CIO) Program Review Process
CRAF—Civil Reserve Air Fleet
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                 31


CRG—Contingency Response Group
CRW—Contingency Response Wing
CTUS—Continental Territory of the United States
DCAPES—Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segments
DCBS—Defense Consolidated Billing System
DCD—Defense Courier Division
DEAMS—Defense Enterprise Accounting and Management System
DGATES—Deployable GATES
DHS—Department of Homeland Security DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DOC—Designed Operational Capability
DOD—Department of Defense
DPC—Data Processing Center
DPR—Document Problem Report
DSS—Distribution Standard System
DTR—Defense Travel Regulation
DTS—Defense Transportation System
EC—Expeditionary Center
FACTS—Finance Air Clearance Transportation System FIDS—Flight Information Display
System
FM—Functional Manager
FMB—Functional Management Board
FQT—Formal Qualification Testing
GATES—Global Air Transportation Execution System
GDSS—Global Decision Support System
GEMS—GATES Enterprise Management Services
GHOST—GATES Handheld Operations System Tablet
GIOD—GATES Installation and Operations Document
GMW—GATES Mobile Workstation
GTN—Global Transportation Network
GUM—GATES User Manual
HDB—History Data Base
HHI—Hand Held Interrogator
HHT—Hand Held Terminal
 32                                               AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013


HQ—Headquarters
ICODES—Integrated Computerized Deployment System
ID—Identification
IDD—Interface Design Document
IGC—Integrated Data Environment (IDE)/Global Transportation Network (GTN) Convergence
IT/NSS—Information Technology/National Security System
ITV—In Transit Visibility
JFRB—Joint Functional Requirements Board
LAN—Local Area Network
MAJCOM—Major Command
MISCAP—Mission Capability
MMHS—Mechanized Material Handling System
MODEM—Modulator Demodulator
MSL—Military Shipping Label
NACI—National Agency Check with Inquiries
NTC—National Targeting Center
O/S—Over/Short
OPlans—Operational Plans
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OR—Operationally Reportable
PC—Personal Computer
PDO—Publishing Distribution Office
PM—Program Manager
PMO—Program Management Office RF—Radio Frequency
RFDC—Radio Frequency Data Communications
RFID—Radio Frequency Identification
RF—ITV—Radio Frequency-Intransit Visibility
RGATES—Remote GATES
SDDC—Surface Deployment and Distribution Command
SIPRNet—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SM—System Manager
Space A/R—Space Available/Required
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                               33


SPR—Software Problem Report
SSO—System Security Office
SUM—Software User’s Manual
TACC—Tanker Airlift Control Center TAV—Total Asset Visibility
TC—AIMS II—Transportation Coordinators’ – Automated Information for Movements System
II
TCMD—Transportation Control and Movement Document
TCN—Transportation Control Number
TDR—Transportation Discrepancy Report
TM—Test Manager
TO—Transportation Officer
TWCF—Transportation Working Capital Fund
URL—Uniform Resource Locator
USB—Universal Serial Bus
USTRANSCOM—United States Transportation Command
UTC—Unit Type Code
WASO—Workstation Area Security Officer
WLAN—Wireless Local Area Network
WPS—Worldwide Port System

Terms
Aerial Port— An airfield that has been designated for the sustained air movement of personnel
and materiel as well as an authorized port of entrance into or departure from the country where
located.
Automatic Identification Technology (AIT)— The group of technologies consisting of bar
codes, radio frequency identification tags, Common Access Cards, and biometrics, which, then
interfaced to information systems, provide automatic identification.
Baseline Change Request (BCR)— BCRs are used to make enhancements to the system or to
change the way the system operates due to new or changing requirements. The BCR form is
filled out and submitted to the GATES Functional Managers at HQ AMC/A4TI at Scott AFB,
IL. Since any change to the GATES software takes time and funding, and must compete with
other validated requirements, a formal BCR process has been established to ensure critical
changes are addressed first.
Broadband Global Area Network (BGAN)— BGAN is the INMARSAT broadband digital
service and is used by DGATES computers for their connectivity requirements. Downlink speeds
of high-end BGAN terminals are up to 492kb/s and upload speeds slightly lower at 300-400kb/s.
 34                                                  AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013


C2 Remedy— C2 Remedy is the tool used to track GATES trouble tickets and corrective
actions. It provides the capability of managing, tracking, or monitoring problem ticket
information, including creating problem resolution requests, searching for existing problem
ticket data, generating reports, and creating macros. When a user experiences a problem with
GATES and calls the GATES help desk, an entry is made in C2 Remedy and a trouble ticket is
assigned.
Configuration Control Board (CCB)— The CCB is the mechanism used to prioritize
competing GATES requirements to ensure the most critical can be satisfied in the resource
constrained software development environment. Members of the CCB are the GATES functional
managers, GATES Security Office, the GATES system managers, and the GATES program
management office. The CCB reviews requirements against known resources and develops a
prioritized list of requirements that can be met in the next GATES release cycle.
Document Problem Report (DPR)— DPRs are used to correct errors in the GATES
documentation, such as the GIOD or user manuals. If users find an error in the GATES
documentation, the DPR should be completed and submitted to the GATES Functional Managers
at HQ AMC/A4TI at Scott AFB, IL. The GATES Functional Managers will validate the DPR
and submit to the GATES PMO for processing.
Functional Management Board (FMB)— The FMB is the mechanism used to prioritize
GATES functional requirements. Unsatisfied requirements from the functional community are
reviewed and prioritized before meeting the CCB. This way, the most critical functional
requirements are clearly identified and won’t be overlooked during the CCB negotiations. The
FMB is chaired by AMC/A4TI and consists of members from every A4T branch, the TACC, and
FM.
INMARSAT— INMARSAT is the corporation that owns the INMARSAT satellite-based
communication system. The satellite constellation was previously known as International
Maritime Satellite (INMARSAT), developed by an intergovernmental organization consortium
in 1979 to provide global safety and other communications for the maritime community. In 1999
it was transformed into a private company, INMARSAT, and INMARSAT no longer is a term
used to identify the satellites.
Joint Functional Requirements Board (JFRB)— GATES has become more than an aerial port
management tool and now incorporates aerial port, water port, and Defense Courier Service
(DCD) functional requirements. Each functional community independently submits their
requirements to the GATES PMO, which at times, will result in conflicting requirements or too
many requirements to implement with the resources available. The JFRB was created to
deconflict and prioritize these competing functional requirements. The JFRB is convened as
required and is chaired by USTRANSCOM/J3 who has tie breaking authority and also represents
the DCD functional community. The Surface Deployment and Distribution Command (SDDC),
representing the water port functional community and AMC, representing the aerial port
functional community are voting members.
Program Management Office (PMO)— The PMO manages system development and
acquisition of system hardware. The PMO is responsible for budgeting and scheduling GATES
development to meet the functional requirements as stated in BCRs and the Software
Requirements Specifications.
AMCI24-101V4 26 DECEMBER 2013                                                                35


Software Problem Report (SPR)— SPRs are used to correct deficiencies in the GATES
software when the system is not operating as it should. Most SPRs result from a user reporting a
problem to the GATES help desk, and in the subsequent investigation of the trouble ticket, it is
determined that a problem exists in the software. Rarely, if ever, will a user submit an SPR
directly. In most cases, the developer will document the required fix action on the SPR and
submit it to configuration management. The SPR will then be allocated to a GATES release, the
software fixed, and then implemented when the next GATES software is released worldwide.
