BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR MOBILITY COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                         16-1401

                                                                                 23 AUGUST 2012

                                                                                Operations Support

                                                                 INFORMATION PROTECTION


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AMC/IP                                                           Certified by: HQ AMC/IP
                                                                             (James R. Hutchison)
                                                                                         Pages: 10



This instruction applies to all Information Protection (IP) offices within AMC and provides
guidance on roles and responsibilities to HQ AMC and installation IP offices. This instruction
provides AMC policy for implementing the Air Force Information Protection program and
protecting sensitive information (regardless of its classification, sensitivity, physical form, media
or characteristics). It assigns specific responsibilities for program implementation, execution and
oversight and supports all information centric instructions and processes in the Air Force and
DoD community. It provides for the orderly transition of primary and additional duties of the IP
office and a management structure to ensure the uninterrupted collection, processing and
dissemination of information. This is a new instruction and should be reviewed in its entirety.
This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) and their units.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.            See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.
 2                                                              AMCI16-1401 23 AUGUST 2012


1. Policy and Program Management
     1.1. Policy. Information Protection (IP) is a key enabler to sustaining air, space and
     cyberspace dominance. Today’s warfighter requires the capability to overcome 21st century
     irregular, catastrophic and disruptive IP challenges while sustaining the capability to address
     traditional ones. The warfighter depends on information to sustain military operations across
     the conflict spectrum.
     1.2. Philosophy. IP is the collective policies, processes and implementation of risk
     management and mitigation actions instituted to prevent the compromise, loss, unauthorized
     access/disclosure, destruction, distortion or non-accessibility of information, regardless of
     physical form or characteristics, over the life cycle of the information. It includes actions to
     regulate access to sensitive information, controlled unclassified information and classified
     information produced by, entrusted to or under the control of the United States Government.
     IP employs a converged, collaborative and integrated framework to assure effective measures
     are employed to protect information and reduce risk.
     1.3. Program Management.
        1.3.1. Senior Security Official. The Chief of Staff, U. S. Air Force, designated
        MAJCOM Vice Commanders as their respective command’s senior security official for
        ensuring implementation of the Information Protection Program. AMC/CV has overall
        command responsibility for IP programs.
        1.3.2. AMC Program Manager. The Director, Information Protection (AMC/IP) is
        responsible for policy, resource advocacy, and oversight of this program. The Director
        reports to the AMC/CV and serves as the single focal point to converge and facilitate the
        command’s enterprise information protection efforts. The Director, IP is the command
        security specialist career field manager for the GS-008X series. The day-to-day
        operations and release of IP data/reports rests with the Director, IP.
        1.3.3. AMC/IP Directorate. The AMC/IP Directorate develops information protection
        policy and procedures within AMC to better coordinate and focus on information centric
        core functions, as well as improve coordination at all levels. AMC follows guidelines
        established by the Air Force IP CONOPS, 1 July 2008, in maintaining a strategy to
        organize a clear, concise and converged approach to ensure the protection of information
        and enhance mission assurance.
        1.3.4. AMC Installations. AMC host wing Vice Commanders (WG/CVs) are designated
        as the Installation’s senior security official. Installations will establish an Information
        Protection office (IPO). The Installation Chief, Information Protection (CIP) reports
        directly to and is supervised by the WG/CV, as directed by the Chief of Staff of the Air
        Force. The IPO serves as the single focal point to converge and facilitate enterprise
        information protection efforts.
            1.3.4.1. Exceptions. At Joint Base (JB) locations where the Air Force is lead service,
            the Vice Wing Commander responsible for delivery of installation support services
            retains traditional IP authority. At JB Lewis-McChord, the Air Force is not the lead
            service, however, the 62 AW/CV will retain traditional IP authority. In cases where
            US Navy or US Army personnel function as the deputy joint base commander
            (DJBC), they will serve as the senior security official.
AMCI16-1401 23 AUGUST 2012                                                                      3


           1.3.4.2. Only one IPO will be established per installation. AMC host IPOs are
           encouraged to establish MOUs with each tenant organizations to integrate all IP
           activities and personnel into the host IPO.
2. IP Construct. Commanders are responsible for establishing IP programs to provide a
converged environment across all information domains. Installations will align IP program
functions reporting directly to the CV. Because of the interrelationship between various
functional elements of the information domain, IP is a major area of focus to be addressed by a
multi-functional collaborative team approach. The goal is to seamlessly integrate the IP
environment into the mission by focusing on the key pillars of security: personnel security,
physical security, information security, and industrial security. At their respective levels, IP
staffs provide daily functional management of information protection issues.
3. Responsibilities
   3.1. AMC/CV.
       3.1.1. Serves as the MAJCOM Senior Security Official.
       3.1.2. Serves as the reporting official for the Director, Information Protection.
       3.1.3. Reviews approved MAJCOM Security Advisory Group (MSAG) minutes and
       chairs the MSAG when appropriate.
       3.1.4. Designated as the approval authority for access to classified by persons outside the
       Executive Branch IAW AFI 31-501, para 5.4.1.
   3.2. AMC/IP.
       3.2.1. Reports directly to the AMC/CV.
       3.2.2. Provides involvement, guidance and oversight on cross-functional information
       centric activities.
       3.2.3. Provides policy and guidance to AMC Wing IP programs.
       3.2.4. Augments Secretary of the Air Force Information Protection (SAF/AAP) staff as
       outlined in Standard Core Personnel Documents.
       3.2.5. Implements an Awards and Recognition program to identify individuals and
       organizations who positively impact the success of information protection.
       3.2.6. Develops/executes an AMC/IP budget through the HQ AMC/DS Office.
       3.2.7. When appropriate, coordinates MSAG efforts with the Council of Deputies, Chief
       Information Officer (CIO) Council, Force Protection Executive Council (FPEC) and
       Threat Working Group (TWG).
       3.2.8. Provides education, training and professional development program guidance.
       3.2.9. Chairs the MSAG and produces minutes/agendas.
       3.2.10. Conducts annual IP Workshop as resources allow.
       3.2.11. Conducts teleconferences with Installation CIPs, preferably quarterly.
       3.2.12. Provides IP briefing and related information to newly assigned AMC wing
       commanders.
4                                                              AMCI16-1401 23 AUGUST 2012


       3.2.13. Provides support and coordinates activities with HQ AMC/A6 on cyber related
       issues, e.g., CCRI activities.
    3.3. AMC/DS.
       3.3.1. Provides a 3-digit level coordinating official to the MSAG.
       3.3.2. Provides security manager support for AMC/IP.
       3.3.3. Advocates for IP funding to meet mission needs., i.e., TDY, office supplies, etc.
    3.4. AMC/A3.
       3.4.1. Provides a 3-digit level coordinating official to the MSAG.
       3.4.2. Provides Subject Matter Experts on the use of the Operational Security
       Collaboration Architecture (OSCAR) risk analysis tool.
       3.4.3. Provides inputs to the MSAG on Cyber Defense Working Group (CDWG) issues.
    3.5. AMC/A6.
       3.5.1. Provides a 3-digit level coordinating official to the MSAG.
       3.5.2. Provides cyber security/cyber ops subject matter expertise.
       3.5.3. Provides inputs to the MSAG on cyber security/defense issues.
    3.6. A-Staff/Special Staff.
       3.6.1. Provides a 3-digit level coordinating official to the MSAG as required.
       3.6.2. Provides coordination on IP related issues when requested.
       3.6.3. Addresses/presents cross-functional enterprise information protection issues to
       AMC/IP for collaboration and subsequent action.
    3.7. AMC (Installation) CV.
       3.7.1. Serves as the wing’s Senior Security Official.
       3.7.2. Establishes and monitors the Installation Security Advisory Group (ISAG).
       3.7.3. Serves as the supervisor and reporting official for wing Chief’s of Information
       Protection.
    3.8. Installation Chief, Information Protection (CIP).
       3.8.1. Reports directly to the Wing CV.
       3.8.2. Provides guidance and oversight for all enterprise information protection
       activities, functions and programs to assist the Installation Commander in maintaining a
       strong mission assurance posture, as shown in Attachment 2.
       3.8.3. Chairs the Installation Security Advisory Group (ISAG). Maintains a current
       ISAG Charter, signed by the Vice, Wing Commander.
       3.8.4. Represents IP by attending senior-level meetings such as: wing staff meetings,
       Status of Discipline meetings and commanders’ call, as requested.
       3.8.5. Ensures SIPRNET capability is readily available to the IP office.
AMCI16-1401 23 AUGUST 2012                                                                    5


      3.8.6. Manages and provides oversight for all Information, Industrial and Personnel
      Security functions on the installation.
      3.8.7. Manages the Installation Security Manager programs to facilitate the Information,
      Industrial and Personnel Security programs.
      3.8.8. After review by the Wing CV, report IP metric data to AMC/IP.
4. Enterprise Protection Risk Management Program (EPRM)
   4.1. General. The Enterprise Protection Risk Management Program provides a systematic
   approach to acquiring and analyzing information necessary for protecting assets and
   allocating security resources. To meet today’s security challenges, AMC will follow
   national-level security policy initiatives that endorse a risk analysis methodology which
   examines three basic elements: threat, criticality, and vulnerability. The EPRM vision is to:
      4.1.1. Effectively allocate scarce resources through informed and risk-based decision
      making.
      4.1.2. Provide standardized, measured and enterprise-wide analysis to calculate and
      respond to risk.
      4.1.3. Provide a converged environment for protecting the information needed for
      effective air, space, and cyberspace operations.
5. Oversight.
   5.1. Local Information Protection Management Evaluation (LIPME). Installation CIPs
   will conduct Local Information Protection Management Evaluations IAW AFI 31-
   401_AFGM, Information Security Program Management. Review open storage areas and
   update certification memorandums as needed during LIPMEs.
   5.2. Information Protection Management Evaluation (IPME). MAJCOMs will
   incorporate IP into the Air Force Inspection System (AFIS). The IPME will occur every four
   (4) years, IAW AFI 31-401_AFGM. All host Wing IP offices will be inspected as
   determined by the AMC/IG inspection schedule.
   5.3. AMC Staff Assistance Visits (ASAV). AMC/IP will conduct ASAVs on the
   installation-level IPOs when requested by the wing commander. Recommended timeframe
   for an ASAV is 9 to 12 months prior to a Consolidated Unit Inspection (CUI).
   5.4. Command Cyber Readiness Inspections. Command Cyber Readiness Inspections
   (CCRIs) are conducted by the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA). The wing
   Communications Group/Squadron is the senior POC for this event in coordination with all
   host and tenant organizations.
6. Security Advisory Group (SAG)
   6.1. General. AMC/IP and all installations will establish a SAG IAW guidance in the Air
   Force IP CONOPS. SAGs will be designed to provide a focused and unified AF perspective
   on enterprise-wide issues as well as to DoD, executive agencies and other external
   organizations. SAGs will collaborate with subject matter experts at all levels to mitigate or
   resolve information protection deficiencies.
 6                                                             AMCI16-1401 23 AUGUST 2012


        6.1.1. SAG membership includes, but is not limited to expertise from the following
        disciplines: information assurance, information management, OPSEC, information
        security, personnel security, industrial security, physical security, public affairs,
        acquisition protection, special access, sensitive compartmented information (SCI),
        international affairs and foreign disclosure.
        6.1.2. SAG representatives (MAJCOM/Wing) must be in a decision making position in
        order to speak for their commander/staff agency director. The notional structures for
        MAJCOM and Installation Security Advisory Groups are shown in Attachment 3.
     6.2. HQ AMC MAJCOM Security Advisory Group (MSAG). The AMC/IP Director, or
     designee, will chair the MSAG comprised of functionally designated subject matter
     experts/representatives, following guidance outlined in the AMC/CV approved charter. The
     MSAG will meet at least quarterly or more frequently as determined by the chair, designee,
     or by request of the membership.
        6.2.1. MSAG membership includes, but is not limited to expertise identified in paragraph
        6.1.1 above. Directorates and Special Staff agencies will appoint representatives and
        advisors as outlined in the AMC MSAG charter.
        6.2.2. MSAG minutes will be reviewed by the CV and copies distributed to SAF/AAP,
        MSAG membership, Directors and Special Staff.
     6.3. Installation Security Advisory Group (ISAG). The ISAG will replicate the AF IP
     CONOPS, MAJCOM guidance and Wing CV approved charter.
        6.3.1. The CIP chairs the ISAG, unless relinquished to the wing CV.
        6.3.2. ISAG meetings are conducted at least quarterly and meeting minutes will be
        provided to HQ AMC/IP. Meeting minutes will be reviewed by the CV prior to being
        released to AMC/IP. Distribution will be IAW locally approved guidance.
        6.3.3. ISAG membership includes, but is not limited to expertise identified in paragraph
        6.1.1 above.
7. Administration.
     7.1. General. The Information Protection function conducts personnel security clearance
     activities, facilitates adverse information requests, stores privacy act data, conducts
     interviews, performs fingerprinting, performs classified information activities and maintains
     records.
     7.2. Office Space. Wing IP offices require adequate office space to allow for privacy and
     security in ensuring classified information, discussions and personnel security interviews are
     protected. Separate offices which have the ability to be individually locked are required.
     7.3. Equipment. Each IP office will have enough workstations to ensure connectivity to the
     NIPRNET and SIPRNET. If SIPRNET connectivity is unavailable in the local IP office, an
     accessible SIPRNET will be readily available.
     7.4. Bi-Monthly Activity Report (Twice a month). SAF/AAP requires all MAJCOMS to
     submit inputs to the Bi-Monthly Activity Report; as such, AMC/IP requires inputs from each
     AMC/CIP. Inputs to this report are categorized into two headings: Issues and Events. The
     reporting of wing issues are limited to significant, overarching items the installation CIP
AMCI16-1401 23 AUGUST 2012                                                                    7


   believes requires HHQ attention and sharing with the larger IP community. Reportable
   events include, but are not limited to: unique training conducted or attended by installation
   CIP team members, upcoming HHQ assessments/visits, etc. Normal day-to-day work
   activities are not to be submitted in the Bi-Monthly Activity Report.
8. IP Metrics
   8.1. AMC/IP. The AMC/IP office will collect, collate and report metric data IAW
   SAF/AAP requirements. AMC/IP is the program manager for the SAF/AAP, IP Fully
   Operational Capable (FOC) metric.
   8.2. AMC/CV Review. AMC/IP will review metric data with the AMC/CV, prior to being
   released to SAF/AAP.
   8.3. Installation Reporting Requirement. The CIP will collect, collate and report metric
   data to AMC/IP IAW reporting requirements. CIPs will review metric data with their CV,
   prior to submitting to AMC/IP.
9. Professional Development
   9.1. Security Certification. To ensure IP professionals are maintaining current knowledge
   and job skills, DoD developed a Security Professional Education Development (SPeD)
   certification program. All IP personnel are required to become certified at the appropriate
   level. The SPeD Certification Credential certifies that a security practitioner satisfied
   standards approved by the Department of Defense Security Training Council, an advisory
   body for DoD on security training. As this is a new DoD program, a separate schedule,
   published by AF or DoD, will indicate when and what certification levels are required.
   Continuing education is required to maintain certification. This education is considered a
   Priority 1 requirement.
   9.2. Air Force Civilian Leadership Development. Job performance and development are
   key in maintaining expertise and competence for the IP professional. Personnel performing
   IP duties will be expected to attend Air Force civilian leadership programs as part of their
   development process. This is an individual responsibility for those personnel desiring
   promotions and new IP opportunities. In addition, completion of a Civilian Development
   Plan is required in order for the Development Team to properly vector an individual to meet
   their desired goals.




                                           ROBERT R. ALLARDICE
                                           Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           Vice Commander
 8                                                       AMCI16-1401 23 AUGUST 2012


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AF Information Protection CONOPS, 1 July 2008
CSAF Information Protection Policy Directive Memorandum, 10 Nov 2008
SAF/AA Information Protection Implementation Instructions, 12 Nov 2008
AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), 8 June 11
AFI 10-704, Military Deception, 30 August 2005
AFI 31-401_AFGM1, Information Security Program Management, 29 February 2012
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, 27 January 2005
AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program Management, 29 June 2005
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFPD 31-4, Information Security, 1 September 1998
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AMCI16-1401 23 AUGUST 2012                                                                           9


                                               Attachment 2
                                    INFORMATION PROTECTION

Figure A2.1. Information Protection
INFORMATION PROTECTION (IP)                          A6
- Acquisition Security                               - FOIA Program
- Classification/Declassification Policy             - Privacy Act
- Classification & Marking
                                                     - Records Management
1.       Declassification & Downgrading
                                                     - COMPUSEC/COMSEC/EMSEC
2.       Foreign Government Information
                                                     - Information Assurance
3.       Formerly Restricted Data (FRD)
                                                     - Sensitive Information (Comp Sec Act – 1987)
- Industrial Security
- Information Security                                A7
1.       Inquiries and Investigations                - Threat & Vulnerability Assessments
2.       North Atlantic Treaty Organization          - Law Enforcement Sensitive
3.       OCA Administration & Management             - DEA Sensitive Information
4.       Controlled Unclassified Information, CUI    - Physical Security
- Personnel Security/Personnel Adjudications         PA
- Program Oversight
                                                     - Public Release
- Program Protection
                                                      SG
- Restricted Data (RD)
                                                     - HIPPA
1.       S&T Information (STINFO)
                                                     SE
2.       Security Classification Guides
- Safeguarding                                       1.       Nuclear Surety
A2                                                   AFOSI
- Sensitive Compartmented Information                1.       Counterintelligence
A3                                                   SHARED
- COAL War Fighters                                  IP, A1 - For Official Use Only
- Info Operations (TACC/XOOI)                        IP, A3 - Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Info
- Operations Security (OPSEC)
                                                     IP, A6, A2, A3 - Security Education and
A5/8
                                                     Training
1.       Export Administration Regulations
                                                     A2, A3, CVZ - Special Access Programs
2.       Foreign Disclosure
                                                     A2, A6 - Technical Security Countermeasures
- Technology Transfer
- International Traffic in Arms Regulation (ITAR)    (TSCM)
                                                     A2, IP - Limited Distribution
 10                                             AMCI16-1401 23 AUGUST 2012


                                 Attachment 3
                         ISAG/MSAG ORGANIZATION

Figure A3.1. ISAG/MSAG Organization
