BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      AIR MOBILITY COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                      33-109

                                                                                13 JULY 2009
                                                            Communications and Information

                                                           MOBILE SATELLITE SERVICES
                                                                       MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AMC/A6O                                       Certified by: HQ AMC/A6O (Col Samuel
                                                                                R. Douglas)
Supersedes:   AMCI33-109, 1 November 1998                                        Pages: 13



This instruction contains guidelines and procedures for managing, operating, and acquiring
Mobile Satellite Services (MSS) for International Maritime Satellite (Inmarsat™) and Iridium™
equipment owned or leased by Air Mobility Command (AMC). It implements Air Force Policy
Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems,
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 6250.01B, Satellite Communications;
Assistant Secretary of Defense/Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence
(ASD[C3I]) (now Assistant Secretary of Defense/Networks and Information Integration
[ASD/NII]) Policy Letter, DOD Policy Letter on Managing MSS, dated August 29, 2001;
Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA Circular 310-130-1, Submission of
Telecommunications Service Requests, and DISA-Defense Information Technology Contracting
Organization (DITCO) Circular 350-135-1, Commercial Communications, Defense Commercial
Communications Acquisition Procedures. It provides procedures for (AMC), Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC), and Air National Guard (ANG) personnel who procure and manage MSS
resources (equipment and service) in support of AMC’s mission readiness and warfighting
capabilities. It complements AFI 33-134, Mobile Satellite Services Management. This
instruction does not apply to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve units; it only applies to
active duty AMC units, personnel, and equipment. Refer technical questions to HQ AMC/A6,
203 W. Losey Street, Room 3180, Scott AFB IL 62225-5223. Refer recommended changes and
conflicts between this and other publications to HQ AMC/A6, 203 W. Losey Street, Room 3640,
Scott AFB IL 62225-5223, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
2                                                                 AMCI33-109 13 JULY 2009


Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: This revision establishes comprehensive procedures for purchasing, billing, reporting
and provides general updates to other information. All publications’ references verified and
points of contact addresses validated and changed as needed.
1. Introduction. This AMCI identifies roles and responsibilities for AMC organizations in the
acquisition, management, and reporting of MSS. It addresses both the equipment and service
sides of MSS.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
    2.1. HQ AMC/A6O:
       2.1.1. Establishes a command-level MSS manager. Send name, rank, Defense Switched
       Network number, and e-mail address to Air Force Communications Agency (AFCA)
       MSS AFCA/ESLM within 15 days of appointment.
       2.1.2. Ensures all MSS requirements are documented in the satellite communications
       (SATCOM) database (SDB) for service-level missions according to CJCSI 6250.01B.
       2.1.3. Develop HQ AMC/A6 policy for the funding of MSS terminals and service.
       2.1.4. When one or more units from AMC are deploying in support of another
       MAJCOM/DRU/FOA coordinate between supported and supporting units to ensure funds
       are available to cover MSS airtime expenses in the appropriate Program Designator Code
       account.
    2.2. AMC MSS Manager:
       2.2.1. Analyzes cost, system availability, encryption requirements, and reliability as the
       primary criteria in deciding whether an approved MSS system, or alternative should be
       the system of choice to meet a user’s mission requirement.
       2.2.2. Ensures unit compliance with ASD (NII)/DOD Chief Information Officer policy
       on acquisition and use of MSS.
       2.2.3. Forwards waiver requests for procuring and using non-standard DOD MSS
       systems to AFCA/ESLM.
       2.2.4. Works with and forwards MSS requirements to proper AMC/A6 authority and Air
       Force Space Command (AFSPC)/DRN for submission into the SDB.
       2.2.5. Ensures Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System documents are generated
       before MSS service (air-time) and equipment is purchased.
AMCI33-109 13 JULY 2009                                                                      3


     2.2.6. Validates and forwards all AMC MSS activation and deactivation requests to the
     Air Force MSS AFCA/ESLM office. Maintains all pertinent information regarding
     service activations including serial numbers and assigned telephone numbers of activated
     terminals.
     2.2.7. Serves as the overall manager of MSS assets within AMC to ensure that terminal
     assets are at the right place at the right time to ensure the AMC mission is met. Is the
     command focal point for MSS customer service.
     2.2.8. Authorizes the intracommand transfer of MSS terminals to ensure missions are
     met and to gain efficiencies of scale.
     2.2.9. Provides annual updates of MSS assets and service to the Air Force MSS lead
     command office by 1 July.
     2.2.10. Provides Air Force MSS AFCA/ESLM with a annual report, RCS: HAF-AFCA
     (A)0310, Commercial SATCOM Use and Expenditure Report (MSS), of AMC MSS
     hardware and service use according to CJCSI 6250.01B.
     2.2.11. Develops AMC specific procedures for tracking information needed for annual
     reporting. Report will include current fiscal year (FY) hardware purchases and integration
     costs by terminal type and number, total number of terminals by type and costs for
     current FY associated satellite airtime.
  2.3. Communications Squadrons:
     2.3.1. Communications squadron commander or designated representative will appoint,
     in writing a primary and alternate Base MSS Manager.
     2.3.2. Base MSS Manager:
        2.3.2.1. Sends a copy of the Base MSS Manager appointment letter to the AMC MSS
        Manager within 5 days of appointment.
        2.3.2.2. Coordinates with the AMC MSS Manager on all issues pertaining to
        budgeting for the acquisition, operation (including Satellite "air time" charges), and
        maintenance of base’s MSS assets and services unless centrally funded by HQ AMC
        or funded by another organization.
        2.3.2.3. Annually revalidates all base MSS requirements with HQ AMC/A6O by 1
        June to determine if existing equipment meets known and anticipated unit mission
        requirements for the next fiscal year.
        2.3.2.4. Ensures all base MSS equipment and services are procured through DISA
        per Office of Secretary of Defense (OSD) policy. Initiates waiver request to OSD
        policy as required.
     2.3.3. Using organization unit commander or designated representative:
        2.3.3.1. Appoints, in writing a primary and alternate Unit MSS Manager.
     2.3.4. Unit MSS Manager:
        2.3.4.1. Sends a copy of the Unit MSS Manager appointment letter to the Base MSS
        Manager and AMC MSS Manager within 5 days of appointment.
4                                                         AMCI33-109 13 JULY 2009


    2.3.4.2. Performs an inventory of MSS equipment during the months of May and
    December of each year and before a change in Unit MSS Managers. Inventories will
    be forwarded to the Base MSS Manager for reconciliation with the AMC MSS
    Manager inventory and conducted on a format provided by AMC/A6O. If possible
    assets will be tracked and accounted for via the unit Custodian Authorization/
    Custody Receipt Listing (CA/CRL) method. If a unit does not have the capability to
    track via a CA/CRL the unit will use the Logistics Readiness Squadron R-15 listing
    or a locally developed equipment accountability system.
    2.3.4.3. Works with unit-level training manager to ensure that qualification and on-
    the-job training is provided and adhered to for MSS systems according to AFI 36-
    2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training Program On The Job Training Administration,
    and     AFI      36-2234,     Instructional   Systems    Development.            See
    https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/ for an example of a unit-level Job Qualification
    Standard Continuation Sheet.
    2.3.4.4. Signs for the latest MSS inventory list and routes document to unit
    commander or designated representative for validation. Sends a validated copy of the
    inventory list via the Base MSS Manager to the AMC MSS Manager no later than
    (NLT) 1 January and 1 June of each year. Retains a copy of the documents for at
    least 1 year.
    2.3.4.5. Pre-coordinates new/replacement MSS requirements via the Base MSS
    Manager to the AMC MSS Manager to ensure clearly defined unit requirements are
    compatible with planned and existing systems and are technically feasible. Submit
    annual projections for next fiscal year NLT 1 June. Accomplish this before preparing
    and submitting a requirement document to request new equipment or service.
    2.3.4.6. Prepares requirements documents for all unit MSS mission requirements
    using functional terms, according to AFI 33-103, Requirements Development and
    Processing, and Air Force 23-series supply instructions. Multiple users within a unit
    with identical requirements may be covered by the same requirement document (e.g.,
    a technical solution that establishes a unit MSS net with 10 users normally requires
    only one document).
    2.3.4.7. Works with AMC/A6O to ensure all MSS requirements are documented in
    the SDB according to CJCSI 6250.01C and AFI 33-116.
    2.3.4.8. Identifies excess MSS equipment to the Base MSS Manager for potential
    redistribution within the base community. If the Base MSS Manager cannot
    redistribute the excess equipment the Unit MSS Manager will contact the AMC MSS
    Manager for deactivation or potential redistribution before turn-in to the base’s
    designated Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office (DRMO). Obtain a letter of
    approval from the AMC MSS Manager prior to turn-in of equipment to DRMO.
    2.3.4.9. Establishes local Preventive Maintenance Inspections (PMI) and pre- and
    post-deployment inspections, which will include an operational check for unit MSS
    equipment. See https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/ for an example of a unit-level MSS
    PMI.
AMCI33-109 13 JULY 2009                                                                         5


         2.3.4.10. Inspects and performs operational checks on each MSS equipment item
         before placing it into service, removing it from service for maintenance, or returning
         it to service after maintenance.
         2.3.4.11. Reports lost or damaged MSS equipment via the Base MSS Manager to the
         AMC MSS Manager within 5 days of discovery of loss or damage.
         2.3.4.12. Briefs MSS users on the proper use of MSS equipment, to include
         operational security, transmission security, and abuse as outlined in AFI 10-1101,
         Operations Security, and applicable local policies.
         2.3.4.13. Forwards requests for waiver from ASD(NII)/DOD CIO MSS policy via
         the Base MSS Manager to the AMC MSS Manager.
         2.3.4.14. Makes MSS crypto requirements known to unit communications security
         (COMSEC) manager.
         2.3.4.15. Reviews call detail records monthly to certify that usage is in support of
         official missions. Review method will be locally developed by the Unit MSS
         Manager.
             2.3.4.16.1. If unofficial usage is identified, initiate a local investigation, notify
             the Base MSS Manager and AMC MSS Manager within 5 days of discovery.
             Provide the Base MSS Manager and AMC MSS Manager a detailed report within
             5 days of investigation completion. Reimbursement of unofficial calls will be
             made in accordance with Defense Finance and Accounting Service-Denver
             Regulation 177-102, Commercial Transitions at Base Level.
3. Procedures. NOTE: Per ASD(NII) policy only Inmarsat™and Iridium™ are approved
for use without a waiver.
   3.1. Inmarsat™.
      3.1.1. Acquiring Equipment. Inmarsat™is a commercial communications system subject
      to international law and treaty. An Inmarsat™terminal is a terrestrial or airborne radio
      communications device using a satellite link to interface with terrestrial telephone
      systems or other Inmarsat™terminals.
         3.1.1.1. HQ AMC/A6O will provide Inmarsat™funding oversight and management
         oversight.
         3.1.1.2. Units will coordinate with AMC MSS Manager to find out if a terminal is
         available somewhere in the command prior to the purchase of a new terminal.
             3.1.1.2.1. The Unit MSS Manager will purchase terminal equipment utilizing
             DISA/DITCO contract line items or other available contract vehicles prescribed
             by the Director DISA. Units are authorized to use any vendor offering the
             equipment on GSA contract--as long as the equipment is not pre-activated.
         3.1.1.3. If disapproved, the AMC MSS Manager will state and explain why another
         system, such as Iridium™or ultra high frequency military satellite communications
         (MILSATCOM) demand assigned multiple access, can better meet mission
         requirements.
6                                                            AMCI33-109 13 JULY 2009


       3.1.1.4. All Air Force terminals must be securable per ASD(NII)/DOD CIO policy.
       If a terminal can be interconnected with a National Security Agency (NSA) approved
       secure voice device, secure telephone equipment (STE), secure telephone unit (STU)
       or wireline terminal, the Inmarsat™ terminal must be purchased in the commensurate
       configuration (STU-III algorithm installed) to facilitate secure operations.
    3.1.2. Inmarsat™ activation.
       3.1.2.1. Once the terminal is received, the Unit MSS Manager will notify the Base
       MSS Manager that the terminal has been received. The Base MSS Manager will then
       complete the activation form located on the AFCA/ESLMs website at
       https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/index.cfm?content=Inmarsat_activation. The Base
       MSS Manager will begin terminal activation as soon as practicable but no later than 5
       duty days. Once the activation form has been completed the Base MSS Manager will
       forward a copy of the activation request to the AMC MSS manager.
       3.1.2.2. AFCA/ESLM will activate a terminal through the appropriate Point of
       Service Activation Authority that best meets the user’s end needs. Factors to be
       considered   include the Land Earth Station (LES) that will be used for
       communications and the secure communications algorithm.
    3.1.3. Contracting Inmarsat™ service.
       3.1.3.1. After the user receives confirmation that the terminal is activated, the
       terminal must then be enrolled on the DISA/DITCO contract through the local
       servicing communications squadron. The Base MSS Manager will ensure the owning
       Unit MSS Manager coordinates with the local communications squadron to initiate
       the DISA/DITCO contracting process within 5 duty days of terminal activation.
       Department of Defense Instruction (DODI) 4640.14, Base and Long-Haul
       Telecommunications Equipment and Services, considers Inmarsat™airtime service as
       long-haul telecommunications; consequently, Inmarsat™airtime services may only be
       contracted through DISA/DITCO.
    3.1.4. Inmarsat™use.
       3.1.4.1. Users will follow instructions provided by the AMC MSS Manager to ensure
       the correct LES is used for Inmarsat™service. Depending on equipment capabilities,
       users will program Inmarsat™terminals to automatically select the DITCO-contracted
       LES for that terminal. Failure to utilize the DITCO contracted LES will result in
       higher airtime costs that will be direct billed from foreign LESs to the using
       organization.
       3.1.4.2. MSS transmissions must be encrypted whenever required by the
       classification of the information being transmitted. When transmitting classified
       information, NSA Type-1 is the only approved encryption method. Coordinate with
       unit COMSEC Responsible Officers to procure required COMSEC equipment and
       keying material.
       3.1.4.3. Users must comply with the regulations governing the use of radio
       communications of the country in which the terminal is operating. If supporting a
AMCI33-109 13 JULY 2009                                                                     7


         military deployment, contact the supported Unified Command’s frequency
         management office for usage.
     3.1.5. Inmarsat™ deactivation.
         3.1.5.1. When an Inmarsat™system is no longer required, or transferred to a new
         owner outside of AMC, the Unit MSS Manager and Base MSS Manager will
         coordinate deactivation of the terminal. Deactivation ends the ability to use an
         Inmarsat™terminal.         Deactivation   instructions can    be     found    at
         https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/index.cfm?content=Inmarsat_deactivation.
         3.1.5.2. The Unit and Base MSS Managers will notify in writing the AMC MSS
         Manager of deactivation action within 5 days of the deactivation request.
     3.1.6. Inmarsat™ transfer.
         3.1.6.1. Units that have excess serviceable terminals will report those to the Base
         MSS Manager. If a terminal is no longer needed at the base level, the Base MSS
         Manager will inform the AMC MSS Manager of the excess.
         3.1.6.2. The AMC MSS Manager will check with all the Base MSS managers to
         determine if the terminal can be utilized and transferred to meet mission
         requirements.
            3.1.6.2.1. If the terminal can be used within AMC, the AMC MSS Manager Will
            inform the affected Base MSS Managers so they can accomplish the transfer of
            equipment.        Instructions on equipment transfer can be found at:
            https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/index.cfm?content=Inmarsat_deactivation.
         3.1.6.3. The AMC MSS Manager will notify the AFCA MSS Manager of excess
         equipment. The AFCA MSS Manager will check with the AFCA MSS AFCA/ESLM
         equivalents in the Army and Navy.
            3.1.6.3.1. The AFCA MSS Manager will inform AMC MSS Manager and service
            (Army or Navy) so they can accomplish the transfer of equipment.
     3.1.7. Inmarsat™ disposition.
         3.1.7.1. Unit MSS Manager and Base MSS Managers will ensure terminals are
         deactivated and disenrolled from the DITCO contract before turn-in to a base’s
         designated DRMO and notify the AMC MSS Manager in writing of the disposition
         within 5 days.
  3.2. Iridium™
     3.2.1. The Iridium™ system supports DOD missions and operations, as well as other
     Federal, national security, and emergency preparedness communications. Iridium™
     system complements military terrestrial and satellite communications and improves
     warfighter beyond line-of-sight connectivity by offering global communications
     capability. The Iridium™ system is a satellite- based, global wireless communications
     network that offers voice, data, and paging capabilities to reach its destination, with a
     minimum reliance on land-based infrastructures. Cross-linking among satellites and
     up/down-linking through the Government-owned satellite gateway enables the system to
     provide secure, global access.
8                                                                  AMCI33-109 13 JULY 2009


       3.2.2. Acquire Iridium™ hardware and services from DISA with AMC MSS Manager
       oversight. Units will follow the provisioning process as directed in DISA Circular 310-
       130-1,          this         AMCI            and          the        instructions        at
       https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/index.cfm?content=iridium_acq for ordering long-haul
       communications. Purchase Iridium™ hardware through DISA contract only. If hardware
       accessories are not offered in a contract line item, they may be purchased commercially.
           3.2.2.1. If using the DISA/DITCO contract causes a conflict with an existing
           contract, the AMC MSS Manager will resolve the conflict.
           3.2.2.2. Order all Iridium™ Subscriber Units (ISU) with an Iridium™ Security
           Module (ISM). Users will submit a waiver request to the AFCA MSS Manager for
           purchase of ISU without ISM. Waivers to this policy must be granted by ASD
           (NII)/DOD       CIO.         Formatted waiver      request  is   located  at
           https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/.
    3.3. Iridium™Use.
       3.3.1. Users will follow instructions provided by the AFCA MSS Manager to ensure the
       correct procedures are followed for Iridium™service.
       3.3.2. MSS transmissions must be encrypted whenever required by the classification of
       the information being transmitted. When transmitting classified information, NSA Type-
       1 is the only approved encryption method.
       3.3.3. Users must comply with the regulations governing the use of radio
       communications of the country in which the terminal is operating. Contact the supported
       Unified Command’s frequency management office for usage.
    3.4. Iridium™ deactivation.
       3.4.1. Unit MSS Managers and Base MSS Managers will coordinate deactivation of all
       terminals when an Iridium™ system is no longer required or transferred to a new owner
       outside of AMC. Deactivation ends the ability to use an Iridium™terminal. Deactivation
       instructions                can               be               found                  at
       https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/index.cfm?content=iridium_deactivation.
       3.4.2. Unit and Base MSS Managers will notify in writing the AMC MSS Manager of
       deactivation action within 5 days of the deactivation request.
    3.5. Iridium™ transfer.
       3.5.1. Unit MSS Managers will contact the Base MSS Managers to inform them of any
       excesses. If a serviceable terminal within a using organization is no longer needed within
       the unit or base, the Base MSS Manager will inform the AMC MSS Manager of the
       excess.
       3.5.2. The AMC MSS Manager will check with all the AMC Base MSS Managers to
       determine if the terminal can be transferred to meet a mission requirement.
           3.5.2.1. The AMC MSS Manager will inform the affected Base MSS Managers if a
           terminal can be used within AMC so they can accomplish the transfer of equipment.
           Instructions     on      equipment      transfer    can    be       found     at:
           https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/index.cfm?content=iridium_deactivation.
AMCI33-109 13 JULY 2009                                                                       9


      3.5.3. The AMC MSS Manager will notify AFCA MSS Manager of the excess
      equipment. The AFCA MSS Manager will check with the AFCA MSS Manager
      equivalents in the Army and Navy.
          3.5.3.1. The AFCA MSS Manager will inform the AMC MSS Manager and sister
          service (Army or Navy) if the terminal can be used so they can accomplish the
          transfer of equipment.
   3.6. Iridium™ disposition.
      3.6.1. Unit MSS Manager and Base MSS Manager will ensure the terminal is deactivated
      and disenrolled from the DITCO contract when terminal is no longer required before
      turning into a base’s designated DRMO and notify the AMC MSS Manager of the
      disposition. The Unit MSS Manager and Base MSS Manager will follow disposition
      instructions                                 posted                                at
      https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/index.cfm?content=iridium_deactivation. The Unit
      MSS Manager and Base MSS Manager will ensure disenrollment from the DITCO
      contract by coordinating with the local communications squadron and notify the AMC
      MSS Manager in writing of the disposition within 5 days.
4. Acquiring Non-DOD Authorized Equipment and Service.
   4.1. Any users who require MSS other than Iridium™ or Inmarsat™will work through the
   AMC MSS Manager and the MSS AFCA/ESLM office to request a waiver as specified on
   URL https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/. If a satellite system is not NSA-Type 1 encryptable, it
   will not be used operationally unless waivered by HQ USAF/ILCO and Joint Staff.
   4.2. Using organizations will purchase equipment and pay for airtime out of unit funds if a
   Joint Staff waiver is granted.
   4.3. MSS or MILSATCOM systems will be explored to determine which can best meet
   mission needs if a Joint Staff waiver is not granted.
5. Reporting Procedures. RCS: HAF-AFCA(A)0310, Commercial SATCOM Use and
Expenditure Report (MSS).
   5.1. AMC MSS Manager will report annual costs for procuring, upgrading, and operating
   MSS terminals to the AFCA MSS Manager. The AFCA MSS Manager will provide the
   format and reporting timelines to meet the CJCSI 6250.01B reporting requirements.
   5.2. AFCA MSS Manager will consolidate all MSS inputs and forward to HQ USAF/ILC,
   1030 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1030.
   5.3. HQ USAF/ILC will submit report for the USAF.




                             BRADLEY K. ASHLEY, Colonel, USAF
                             Director of Communications and Chief Information Officer
10                                                           AMCI33-109 13 JULY 2009


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems
AFJI 31-102, Physical Security
AFI 33-103, Requirements Development and Processing
AFI 33-111, Telephone Systems Management
AFI 33-116, Long-Haul Telecommunications Management
AFI 37-124, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Basic USAF Supply Manual
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule
DFAS-DER 177-102, Commercial Transactions at Base Level
DISA Circular 310-130-1, Submission of Telecommunications Service Request
DODI 4640-14, Base and Long-Haul Telecommunications Equipment and Services United
States Comptroller Decision B-217996, October 21, 1985

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCA—Air Force Communications Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ASD/NII—Assistant Secretary of Defense/Networks and Information Integration
C4—Command, Control, Communications, and Computers
CIPS—Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System
CSA—Communications Service Authorization
CSRD—Communications-Computer Systems Requirements Document
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs Instruction
COMSEC—Communications Security
DAO—Defense Accounting Office
DFAS—DER—Defense Finance and Accounting Service-Denver Regulation
AMCI33-109 13 JULY 2009                                                                  11


DITCO—Defense Information and Telecommunications Contracting Office
DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency
DISAC—Defense Information Systems Agency Circular
DOD—Department of Defense
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
DSN—Defense Switched Network
FCC—Federal Communications Commission
FY—Fiscal Year
Inmarsat™ ©—International Maritime Satellite
ISM—Iridium Security Module
ISU—Iridium Subscriber Unit
ITU—International Telecommunications Union
LES—Land Earth Station
MAJCOM—Major Command
MILSATCOM—Military Satellite Communications
MSS—Mobile Satellite Service
NSA—National Security Agency
OCONUS—Outside the Continental United States
PDC—Program Designator Code
PMI—Preventive Maintenance Inspection
POC—Point of Contact
RFS—Request for Service
SATCOM—Satellite Communications
SDB—SATCOM Database
STE—Secure Terminal Equipment
STU—Secure Telephone Unit
TSR—Telephone Service Request

Terms
Commercial Mobile Satellite Services (MSS)—Provide full-duplex, half-duplex, and simplex
communications services, which support any type of digital telephone transmission. These
commercial systems complement Department of Defense (DOD) communications resources and
are standalone terminals that can only be used on one system; for example, an Iridium™phone
12                                                                   AMCI33-109 13 JULY 2009


may only be used in the Iridium™system. MSS systems are primarily on-demand, first-come,
first-served communications. They often operate, but not exclusively, on frequencies at 3
Gigahertz (GHz) or below. Types of systems include, but are not limited to, Iridium™and
Inmarsat.
Fixed-Satellite Service—A radio communications service between earth stations at given
locations, when one or more Satellites are used; the given position may be a specified fixed point
or any fixed point within specified areas; in some cases this service includes satellite links, which
may also be operated in the inter-satellite service; the fixed-satellite service may also include
feeder links for other space radio communication service. (ITU RR1, page RR1-4).
Land Mobile Satellite Service—A mobile-satellite service in which mobile earth stations are
located on land. (ITU RR1, page RR1-5).
Maritime Mobile-Satellite Service—A mobile-satellite service in which mobile earth stations
are located on board ships; survival craft stations and emergency position-indicating radio
beacon stations may also participate in this service. (ITU, RR1, page RR1-5).
Mobile-Satellite Service—A radio communication service between mobile earth stations and
one or space stations, or between space stations used by this service; or between mobile earth
stations by means of one or more space stations. This service may also include feeder links
necessary for its operation. (ITU,RR1, page 1-4).
Preventive Maintenance Inspection—Includes necessary coordination of equipment downtime
(if needed) with appropriate agencies; prepares terminal, user manual, and tools needed to clean,
service, inspect, and perform corrosion control. Performs operational check of terminal and
returns equipment to normal configuration.
SATCOM Database (SDB)—A comprehensive database of network connectivity requirements,
which DISA maintains, intended to capture current and future information requirements of
warfighter systems and platforms that require SATCOM.
System—Any organized assembly of resources and procedures united and regulated by
interaction or interdependence to accomplish a set of specific functions.
Verification—Confirmation of the accuracy of bills.
AMCI33-109 13 JULY 2009                                                                13


                                      Attachment 2
  SAMPLE OF INFORMATION REQUIRED TO ACCOMPANY EACH TERMINAL

A2.1. Point of Contact. List owning unit, office symbol, DSN and commercial telephone
numbers, and Unit MSS Manager.
A2.2. Operating Instructions.
A2.3. Proper Land Earth Stations to Use.
A2.4. Cost for operating the Terminal. Show cost difference between using the proper earth
station and those not on the DITCO contract.
A2.5. Warnings. Emphasize safety requirements. The Inmarsat™© antenna poses a radiation
hazard. Also warn against making personal or morale calls.
