BY THE ORDER OF                                                                             AMCI36-2101
THE COMMANDER                                                                              17 APRIL 1995
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                                                 Personnel

                                                                 RATED OFFICER PROFESSIONAL
                                                              DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM(PHOENIX
                                                                      WRENCH/PHOENIX PORT)


                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AMC/DPAOS (Capt William J.                   Certified by: HQ AMC/DPA (Lt Col Robert W. Bar-
       Buechel)                                                                                  rier )
Supersedes AMCR36-1, 23 April 1992                                                           Pages: 3
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force Military Personnel,
to provide background information, general concept, eligibility criteria, selection procedures, training and
classification requirements, reporting procedures, and waiver authority for participation in the Rated
Officer Professional Development Program, an AMC headquarters program permitting selected
CONUS-based rated officers the opportunity to perform the duties of fully qualified aircraft maintenance
officers (PHOENIX WRENCH) or fully qualified transportation officers (PHOENIX PORT). The pro-
gram provides professional development for rated officers and training for higher levels of operational
support management while enhancing maintenance and transportation officer manning. This instruction is
not applicable to the Air National Guard and United States Air Force Reserve units.



1. Background. Rated officers will be given the opportunity to gain supervisory experience in two sup-
port career fields central to AMC operations, and they will continue to maintain proficiency in their pri-
mary weapon system while adding to their professional development in these core disciplines. Wing
commanders will use this program as a career broadening opportunity, but not at the expense of aircrew
experience within the wing. This program should provide professional broadening for AMC’s rated force
and manning assistance to AMC’s maintenance and transportation communities while adhering to the Air
Force officer professional development philosophy.

2. General Concept:
   2.1. PHOENIX WRENCH is a 2-year tour limited to two officers per continental United States
   (CONUS) wing. PHOENIX PORT is a 2-year tour limited to one officer per CONUS strategic aerial
   port squadron. Units requiring selective rated manning will be exempt from these programs due to the
   specialized nature of their rated requirements. Officers assigned to operational support aircraft flying
2                                                                       AMCI36-2101 17 APRIL 1995

    units will also be excluded from the programs due to programmed experience limitations in these
    units.
    2.2. The logistics group commander or operations group commander will use the respective officers
    as a permanently assigned resource in a variety of maintenance or transportation positions and will
    establish officer performance reporting procedures in accordance with paragraph 6. of this instruction.
    These officers will not be placed in key supervisory positions when a qualified maintenance or trans-
    portation officer is available. Officers should be rotated throughout their respective communities dur-
    ing the 2-year tour to increase their breadth of experience.
    2.3. Selected officers will maintain operational proficiency in their respective weapon systems as
    determined by the operations group commander according to Air Force, AMC, and local directives.
    Selected officers are assigned as full-time maintenance or transportation officers (except when flying
    to maintain proficiency) and will be used in this capacity during all contingencies, exercises, opera-
    tional readiness inspections, and deployments. Selected officers will not be counted as line assigned/
    mission ready and are not available for Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS) reporting.
    2.4. For these two programs to be effective, operational, maintenance, and transportation communi-
    ties must realize the selected officer is not available during certain periods, such as flying breaks.
    Wing or unit policies may be established to meet unique local circumstances. These policies must be
    agreed on by the affected communities and will not be contrary to the basic guidelines established in
    this instruction.

3. Eligibility Criteria. Individuals must be captain with 6-11 years total active federal commissioned
service who are current, fully qualified, crew members (aircraft commanders or mission-qualified naviga-
tors). Instructor or flight examiner qualification is desired.

4. Selection Procedures:
    4.1. Wing commanders will nominate officers and send names to HQ AMC/DPAOS (Support Officer
    Manning Branch) by message or letter indicating the desired class start date for training and the date
    the officers will begin performing maintenance or transportation duties.
    4.2 HQ AMC/DPAOS will coordinate with HQ AFMPC to ensure no assignment action is anticipated
    during the PHOENIX WRENCH or PHOENIX PORT tour.
    4.3. HQ AMC/DPAOS will staff each request through HQ AMC/LGQ or HQ AMC/DOZ and send to
    HQ AMC/DPA for approval or disapproval.
    4.4. Five months prior to the completion of this stabilized 2-year tour, the logistics group commander
    or operations group commander may initiate action to identify a replacement, if desired.
    4.5. Curtailment of a PHOENIX WRENCH or PHOENIX PORT tour requires HQ AMC/DPA
    approval.

5. Training and Classification Requirements:
    5.1. HQ AMC/DPAOS will schedule training and input assignment availability code 51 for 2 years.
    5.2. PHOENIX WRENCH officers will attend accelerated Aircraft Maintenance Officer Course
    (J30BR4021 001, 3-week duration) as soon as possible after approval for entry into the PHOENIX
    WRENCH program. A secondary entry-level Air Force specialty code (AFSC) (21A1) is awarded to
AMCI36-2101 17 APRIL 1995                                                                                   3

   each officer on completing the course. After 18 months in one or more maintenance duties, the officer
   is awarded the fully qualified secondary AFSC (21A3).
   5.3. PHOENIX PORT officers will attend Air Transportation Officer Course (L30BR6051 000,
   7-week duration) as soon as possible after approval for entry into the PHOENIX PORT program. A
   secondary entry-level AFSC (24T1) is awarded to each officer on completing the course. After 18
   months in one or more transportation duties, the officer is awarded the fully qualified secondary
   AFSC (24T3).
   5.4. Throughout the program, the duty and primary AFSC is the appropriate rated AFSC with a sec-
   ondary AFSC of 21A or 24T. The duty title will reflect aircraft maintenance or transportation officer
   duties.

6. Reporting Procedures. For PHOENIX WRENCH, the participant’s reporting official is the logistics
group commander or deputy commander. For PHOENIX PORT, the participant’s reporting official is the
operations group commander or the squadron commander. This will provide continuity of rating and pre-
clude frequent officer performance reports or letters of evaluation as the participant is rotated through sev-
eral different positions. In addition to the normal duty description, participants are identified as
PHOENIX WRENCH or PHOENIX PORT officers in the duty description of their officer performance
reports, for example, "Officer is a PHOENIX WRENCH participant performing duty as a full-time main-
tenance officer."

7. Waiver Authority. Waiver authority for deviations to this instruction is HQ AMC/DPA. Requests will
be submitted to HQ AMC/DPAOS for staffing.



                                                                      JOHN F. REGNI, Colonel, USAF
                                                                      Director of Personnel
