BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                INSTRUCTION 10-403

                                                                               24 JULY 2014

                                                                                  Operations

                                               AIR MOBILITY COMMAND (AMC) FORCE
                                                                   DEPLOYMENT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AMC/A3OP                                                 Certified by: HQ AMC/A3O
                                                                        (Col Steven H. Stater)
Supersedes:   AMCI10-403, 13 June 2014                                              Pages: 42


This instruction provides Air Mobility Command (AMC) deployment policy, guidance, and
capability standards for AMC Active Duty (AD) forces and AMC-gained Air National Guard
(ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) forces. This publication is used in
conjunction with AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, and AFI 10-403 AMCSUP
1, Deployment Planning and Execution, to enable the Installation Deployment Officer (IDO) to
fulfill the requirements in AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, which will be
reflected in the Installation Deployment Plan. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to HQ AMC/A3O,
402 Scott Drive, Unit 3A1, Scott AFB IL 62225-5302, DSN 779-3320, or via e-mail to:
amc.A33@us.af.mil using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

Waiver Authority: AMC/A3 has waiver authority over this publication when specific waiver
instructions are not listed herein. Where an OPR is listed for a sub-paragraph, then that
Directorate or Division, as AMC/OPR, has waiver authority for specific requirements that may
be listed in that subsection of the document.
 2                                                                                         AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is substantially revised and requires a complete review. These changes clarify,
update, and streamline all previous guidance. (Added) 1.3.1. MAF Lead-MAJCOM Role.
The Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) uses the Forces for Unified Combatant Command to assign
all MAF assets, excluding Air Education and Training (AETC) Command assets to the CCMDs
and their respective AF component: USTRANSCOM (AMC), USEUCOM (US Air Forces
Europe (USAFE)), USPACOM (US Pacific Air Forces (PACAF)). AF has designated AMC as
the Lead MAJCOM (L-MAJCOM) for all MAF. As an L-MAJCOM, AMC provides MAF
policy and direction.

OVERVIEW

Information contained herein provides AMC-specific policy and guidance that is not listed in
other AF Instructions (AFI) or AMC Instructions (AMCI) used by Installation Deployment
Officers (IDO).

This instruction contains specific mobility capability standards for AMC to effectively execute
the Mobility Airlift world-wide mission (Airlift, Air Refueling, Aeromedical Evacuation, Global
Reach Laydown, and technical services). Times in this instruction are for reference only. Unit
Designed Operational Capability (DOC) statements should be referred to for unit-specific
response times. AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, describes resource
requirements through the Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging (MEFPAK) System.

       1.     AMC COMMAND RELATIONSHIPS. ...............................................................                          3
Figure 1.     AMC Command Structure. ....................................................................................         4
Figure 2.     AMC-Gained AFRC and ANG Units. ...................................................................                  5
       2.     AMC Deployment Preparation and Standards. ......................................................                    5
       3.     AMC Mobility Response Standards. .....................................................................              8
       4.     AMC Deployment Execution Guidance. ...............................................................                 12
       5.     Base Operations Support. .......................................................................................   14
       6.     Employment Guidance for Austere Base Operations. ...........................................                       23
       7.     Post Deployment and Reintegration. .....................................................................           24

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                   27

Attachment 2—ANNEX A, AMC DEPLOYMENT/REDEPLOYMENT/POST
             DEPLOYMENT REINTEGRATION PROCESS AMPLIFYING
             GUIDANCE TO AMCI 10-403                                                                                             34

Attachment 3—ANNEX B, AMC REINTEGRATION PROGRAM                                                                                  37

Attachment 4—ANNEX B, ATTACHMENT 1, SAMPLE REINTEGRATION WINGMAN
             CHECKLIST                                                                                                           42
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                      3



1. AMC COMMAND RELATIONSHIPS. AMC serves as the Air Component to the United
States Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM) and USAF Lead Major Command
(MAJCOM) for Mobility Air Forces (MAF).
  1.1. Air Component to USTRANSCOM. (OPR: A8X)
     1.1.1. The Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) Forces for Unified Combatant Command
     assigns AMC as the Air Component (C-MAJCOM) to the United States Transportation
     Command (USTRANSCOM). In this role, AMC prepares and employs its forces to
     fulfill USTRANSCOM’s global commitments to the Combatant Commanders (CCDR)
     and civilian authorities for airlift, aerial refueling, aeromedical evacuation, and Global
     Air Mobility Support System (GAMSS) support. Additionally, through SECDEF-directed
     Change in Operational Control (CHOP), AMC forces may be allocated directly to the
     CCDRs to fulfill theater requirements.
     1.1.2. In its C-MAJCOM role, AMC provides air mobility policy, planning support and
     trained forces to USTRANSCOM. AMC’s Component Numbered Air Force (C-NAF) is
     the 18th Air Force (18 AF). Through 18 AF, AMC plans and executes operations and
     employs its forces to meet global air mobility requirements of USTRANSCOM.
     1.1.3. The AMC Command Structure is illustrated in Figure 1. Eighteenth Air Force-
     gained AFRC and ANG units, referred to as Air Reserve Component (ARC) units, are
     illustrated in Figures 2. Command lines run from USTRANSCOM to AMC/CC, through
     18 AF Air Force Transportation (AFTRANS)/CC to the 618 Air and Space Operations
     Center (AOC) Tanker Airlift Control Center (TACC) and warfighting units. Note: AMC
     and AMC-gained unit organizational charts at: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
     af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=s6925EC13490B0FB5E044080020E329A9.
     1.1.4. All AMC in-garrison forces, including the Operations Groups, administratively
     assigned to the USAF Expeditionary Center, are assigned to USTRANSCOM via the
     Force for Unified Combatant Command guidance and are under the operational control of
     AMC when conducting USTRANSCOM assigned missions or as directed by SECDEF.
  1.2. Basic Concept of Operational Command.
     1.2.1. AMC forces normally operate under the Operational Control (OPCON) of
     USTRANSCOM, with OPCON delegated to 18 AF (AFTRANS). A SECDEF-signed
     Deployment Order (DEPORD) is required to CHOP AMC forces to another CCDR. The
     DEPORD is defined as a planning directive from SECDEF, issued by the Chairman of
     the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS), which authorizes and directs the transfer of forces
     between Combatant Commands (CCMDs) by reassignment or attachment. Other orders
     created during the planning process, such as a warning order, alert order, and planning
     order may also specify or shape command relationships, but they do not transfer forces.
     1.2.2. OPCON of USTRANSCOM-assigned air mobility forces supporting, but not
     attached to, the Joint Task Force (JTF) or subordinate command will remain with AMC.
  1.3. MAF Lead-MAJCOM Role. (OPR: A3O)
     1.3.1. The Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) uses the Forces for Unified Combatant
     Command to assign all MAF assets, excluding Air Education and Training Command
4                                                      AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


     (AETC) assets to the CCMDs and their respective AF component: USTRANSCOM
     (AMC), USEUCOM (US Air Forces Europe (USAFE)), USPACOM (US Pacific Air
     Forces (PACAF)). AF has designated AMC as the Lead MAJCOM (L-MAJCOM) for all
     MAF. As an L-MAJCOM, AMC provides MAF policy and direction.

Figure 1. AMC Command Structure.
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                        5


Figure 2. AMC-Gained AFRC and ANG Units.




2. AMC Deployment Preparation and Standards.
   2.1. Ready to Deploy. (OPR: A3OD). Forces are ready to deploy when they are ready to
   load and be transported to a deployment location via aircraft, ship, train, or other
   transportation mode. Prior to arriving for loading, they should have completed all pre-
   deployment training and deployment processing and are cleared to deploy for an extended
   period of time. All required support equipment, personnel, and supplies are operationally
   ready for transport in accordance with supporting war plans or contingency tasking.
   2.2. Aircrew Arming. (OPR: A7S). According to Air Force Policy Directive 16-8,
   Arming of Aircrew, Mobility, and Overseas Personnel, all personnel assigned to a
   deployment position will receive small arms training. In addition, all emergency essential
   (EE) civilians will receive all training required IAW AFI 36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian
   Work Force. Per HQ USAF/XO Sept 20, 2002 message "New Deployment Equipment/
   Supplies and Training" all personnel assigned to A/DW, and A/DX Unit Type Code (UTC)
   Availability (UTA) coded positions must be maintained in the highest state of readiness and
   therefore must be trained on a scheduled recurring basis. These requirements supersede the
   AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, requirements for personnel “identified to
   deploy” and “subject to deploy”.
6                                                                 AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


       2.2.1. Everyone assigned to a deployment position as determined by the UTA, UTC
       Management Information System (UMIS) for ANG, will complete weapons qualification
       IAW the training priorities established in AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Program.
       Exceptions to this policy are stated in the medical and chaplain AFIs, and by HQ
       USAF/XO Sept 2002 message which directs an exception for arming D/AX coded UTCs.
       2.2.2. Group "A" personnel with an arming requirement must complete weapons
       qualification annually and Group "B" personnel tasked to deploy complete weapons
       qualification during pre-deployment Just-in-Time training IAW AFI 31-117, Arming and
       Use of Force by Air Force Personnel. Specific weapons qualification training
       requirements and frequencies are directed by AFI 36-2226.
       2.2.3. IAW AMC Pamphlet (AMCPAM) 31-1, Air Mobility Command Arming Policy,
       wing commanders will ensure each unit or squadron establishes an annual weapons
       familiarization program for all weapons qualified personnel. This familiarization is in
       addition to weapons qualification training provided by Combat Arms (CA) and is
       conducted by personnel within the unit as designated by the wing commander. Combat
       Arms Training and Maintenance personnel are available to train unit-training personnel
       to perform this task. As a minimum, this familiarization will consist of weapons safety,
       loading the weapon, clearing ammunition from the chamber and clearing barrel
       procedures, disassembly and assembly, functional check, care and cleaning, and a visual
       inspection. Weapons familiarization training will be documented on AF Form 797, Job
       Qualification Standard Continuation, or 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring
       Training, in the individual's On-the-Job Training (OJT) record. The training objective is
       to increase weapons safety by refreshing the skills and knowledge of weapons-qualified
       personnel in handling weapons. Training events will not be annotated until unit trainers
       observe a HANDS-ON demonstration of this capability. Note: ARC associate units will
       be provided an approved lesson plan that covers all weapons familiarization-training
       requirements. AFRC weapons familiarization training will be documented on the AF
       Form 1098.
    2.3. Chemical,        Biological,    Radiological   and    Nuclear     Defense      Training
    (CBRNDT). (OPR: A7). Air mobility forces will receive CBRNDT according to AFI 10-
    2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Planning and Operations, Table 6.4. HQ
    AMC ensures that the Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) and airlift contractors will have
    ground crew Individual Protection Equipment (IPE) when the AMC/A3 deems it appropriate
    based on the chemical or biological threat in the deployment area. All contract carriers must
    provide annual Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High Yield Explosives
    (CBRNE) defense training to their crews. AMC will provide just-in-time training for
    contract carriers at locations identified by HQ AMC/A3BC.
    2.4. Civil Engineer Readiness Training. (OPR: A7). Unit commanders will pre-identify
    UTC personnel requiring specialized Civil Engineer Readiness training, i.e., shelter
    management, contamination control (decontamination), etc., to the installation's civil
    engineering readiness flight for scheduling of initial and refresher training. Note: Aircrew
    members will not be designated for specialized Civil Engineer Readiness teams.
    2.5. Antiterrorism. (OPR: A7). DOD Instruction 2000.12, DOD Antiterrorism (AT)
    Program, applies to all service personnel both CONUS and OCONUS. This instruction
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                      7


  establishes responsibility for Antiterrorism/Force Protection (AT/FP) training. The following
  direction is from DODI 2000.12:
     2.5.1. All personnel deploying OCONUS including Non-DoD personnel traveling under
     DoD sponsorship must comply with DOD Directive 4500.54E, DoD Foreign Clearance
     Program (FCP).
     2.5.2. The CCDRs that have geographic areas of responsibility (AOR) will establish an
     AT/FP program for their AOR. All personnel deploying OCONUS must complete
     antiterrorism training as dictated by the regional combatant commander of the AOR of
     deployment. Note: The geographic CCDRs' AT policies take precedence over all AT
     policies or programs of any DOD Component operating or existing in that command's
     area of responsibility (AOR).
     2.5.3. DOD Instruction 2000.16, DoD Antiterrorism (AT) Standards, is the reference for
     all AT/FP programs. The following direction is from DODI 2000.16:
     2.5.4. Antiterrorism Officers (ATOs) shall be assigned in writing at each installation or
     base, as well as deploying organizations.
     2.5.5. Commanders shall:
         2.5.5.1. Ensure all assigned personnel receive appropriate training to advance AT
         awareness. Individual records shall reflect AT training.
         2.5.5.2. Commanders shall ensure that every military service member, DOD
         employee, regardless of rank receive Level I training, to include AOR specific threat
         brief, as specified in DODI 2000.16.
         2.5.5.3. Commanders shall provide Level I AT training as follows:
             2.5.5.3.1. Annually to all CONUS-based personnel who are eligible for
             OCONUS deployment.
             2.5.5.3.2. Individuals traveling outside CONUS for either permanent or
             temporary duty shall have completed Level I Antiterrorism Training within 3
             months prior to travel.
  2.6. Immunizations. (OPR: SG). DOD requires at a minimum that all deploying
  personnel be current for tetanus-diphtheria, influenza, and hepatitis A, measles/
  mumps/rubella, and polio immunizations. Service-specific immunization requirements are
  summarized in Air Force Joint Instruct (AFJI) 48-110, Immunizations and
  chemoprophylaxis. Deployment-specific medical countermeasures are based upon the
  geographical location. The supported combatant command or HQ AMC/SG will determine
  the need for additional immunizations. Base-level public health personnel maintain the
  knowledge base for all immunization requirements for all exercises and operations.
  2.7. Passports and/or Visa Requirements. (OPR: A1R). Refer to the Foreign Clearance
  Guide and any associated Personnel Processing Codes (PPCs) to determine passport and visa
  requirements.
  2.8. Airfield and Base Operations Pre-Deployment Surveys. (OPR: 18 AF/A3). Prior
  to deployment, the senior deploying commander will ensure a pre-deployment vulnerability
  assessment has been conducted (Reference AMCPAM 10-405, AMC Deployment,
 8                                                                  AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


     Employment and Redeployment Guide for Base Operating Support). These assessments will
     be accomplished by a team that includes a medical member qualified to evaluate the safety
     and vulnerability of local food and water sources, perform an epidemiological risk
     assessment, evaluate local medical capabilities, perform a vector/pest risk assessment,
     determine adequacy of hygiene of local billeting and public facilities, and perform an
     environmental risk assessment and initiate an Environmental Baseline Survey, IAW AFI 10-
     245, Antiterrorism (AT).
3. AMC Mobility Response Standards. (OPR: A3OP; OCR: 18 AF/A5)
     3.1. Contingency Response Wings (CRWs):
        3.1.1. CRWs have subordinate Contingency Response Groups (CRG) that must be
        capable of deploying as a base opening module in support of the base opening concept.
        Additionally, CRW forces must be capable of deploying as part of a Contingency
        Response Element (CRE) or Contingency Response Team (CRT), or to deploy in
        augmentation of an existing operation. In either case, the deployment requirement will
        be dependent on the environment and magnitude of the airlift operation supported and
        home station workload. The CRW sub organizations (i.e. CRG) must conduct sustained
        operations under surge workload conditions and be capable of deploying all required
        personnel and equipment within 12 hours of notification, unless otherwise directed by a
        higher state of readiness.
        3.1.2. Operations Squadron Response Capability: Units have met their required response
        time when tasked Unit Type Codes (UTCs) are available to load on common user or
        organic lift (ready-to-load at origin). The Air Mobility Operations Squadrons must maintain
        capability to be ready to deploy worldwide within time as specified in AFI 10-201, Status of
        Resources and Training, see https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb, for
        response times.
            3.1.2.1. Deploy first initial communications team within 12 hours of notification
        3.1.3. The CRW is manned with an elite cadre of personnel that deploy and provide
        global capabilities of opening airfields and supporting surge airlift requirements
        (operationally organized as CRG, CRE, CRT, and CSE) as tasked by 18 AF/CC. Unique
        mission requirements may dictate various derivatives or combinations of open the
        airbase, Command and Control (C2), aircraft maintenance, and aerial port UTCs to be
        tasked. However, tasking these capabilities or UTCs may adversely affect the capability
        of the CRWs to deploy in their designed capability. Deployment of all UTCs must be
        coordinated for approval through the appropriate AMC Functional Area Manager and
        618 AOC (TACC).
            3.1.3.1. Airlift Control Flights (ALCFs): Personnel and equipment must be capable
            of deployment within 12 hours of notification (unless otherwise specified). ARC
            units ordered to active duty to support AMC mobility missions will be ready to
            deploy within 36 hours from unit notification of mobilization. The response time
            includes 24 hours for mobilization.
            3.1.3.2. Contingency Response Elements (CREs): CREs are composed of Unit Type
            Codes (UTCs) consisting primarily of personnel and equipment maximized for self-
            sustained operations. A CRE contains an Operations Center, minimum essential on-
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                            9


        load, and off-load, and maintenance capability. They may contain functional area
        contingency support elements such as intelligence, finance, contracting, logistics,
        weather, security, and medical forces.
        3.1.3.3. Airlift Mobility Liaison Officers (AMLO): AMLOs are highly qualified,
        rated Air Force officers with airlift expertise and assigned duties with ground combat
        units. AMLOs at AMC operating locations are assigned to a CRW and unit AMLOs
        are assigned to an Air Mobility Wing (AMW) or Airlift Wing (AW) for
        administrative purposes. The principal functions of the AMLO are to advise the
        ground force commander on the capabilities, limitations, best use of airlift resources,
        and to coordinate requested airlift missions. The AMLO coordinates with the 618
        AOC (TACC), Air Mobility Division (AMD), components of the Army air-ground
        system, and aircrews in the area, CRGs, CREs, other AMLOs, and any other agencies
        supporting these missions.
            3.1.3.3.1. AMLOs deploy with their assigned Tactical Air Control Party (TACP)
            which usually deploys with their assigned ground unit. AMLOs are tasked to
            deploy through the Air Mobility Tasking (AMT) and are listed in the UTC
            Availability (UTA).
     3.1.4. Depending on the situation, any deployed mobile command and control team may
     be responsible for reporting directly to the National Military Command Center (NMCC),
     AMD, Air Mobility Operations Control Center (AMOCC), or the 618 AOC (TACC).
  3.2. Air Mobility Wing (AMW) and Airlift Wings (AW): AMWs and AWs, except the
  89th Airlift Wing must be able to:
     3.2.1. Provide aircraft and crews in accordance with the AMC Commanders
     Apportionment and Allocation Plan (CAAP) to meet operational requirements.
     3.2.2. Provide stage crew management at designated en route or deployed locations,
     when the number of stage crews is greater than four.
     3.2.3. Active-duty units tasked to fly intertheater airlift missions will have a response
     time of 36 hours from notification.
     3.2.4. Active-duty tanker units tasked to deploy from home station to provide theater
     support will have a response time in accordance with AFI 10-201, Status of Resources
     and Training System.
     3.2.5. ARC units ordered to active duty to support AMC missions will be ready to
     deploy within 72 hours from unit notification of mobilization. The response time
     includes 24 hours for mobilization. Note: Response time for units with mobility
     missions (i.e. non-alert, non-Operations Plan (OPLAN) 8010-FY) is defined as the time
     that unit is ready to begin loading of common user or organic lift (i.e., ready-to-load date
     at origin). Note: Air Expeditionary Forces (AEF) units’ response time varies according
     to AEF cycle and tasking.
     3.2.6. Provide all UTCs listed in the UTA or ANG database equivalent.
     3.2.7. Provide headquarters element support to deployed locations when required.
     3.2.8. Provide intelligence, aircrew life support, and tactics support for mobility forces.
10                                                               AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


     3.2.9. Aerial Port Squadrons (APS) and Aerial Port Flights (APF), Active Duty and
     ARC, may not be available to support their home station host wings for home station
     mobility and unit deployments. Under current national military strategy scenarios, APSs
     and APFs are independently tasked from the collocated wing or group. Therefore, they
     may be required to deploy to another locations to support an OPLAN and may not be
     available for home station activities. Base deployment programs should either use host
     base support for deployment or have a program developed that uses the available wing or
     group resources. The APSs and APFs are not included as "available resources" in this
     context unless they are wartime tasked for home station. During peacetime, the APSs
     and APFs can certainly assist in the training of the base deployment and provide expertise
     as needed. Refer to AFI 10-403 AMCSUP 1, Deployment Planning and Execution, for
     additional information on Aerial Port responsibilities.
  3.3. Air Refueling Wing (ARW). Each active ARW must be able to:
     3.3.1. Provide aircraft and crews in accordance with the AMC Commanders
     Apportionment and Allocation Plan (CAAP) to meet operational requirements.
     3.3.2. Deploy designated air-refueling forces to support intertheater operations
     worldwide. Air refueling forces supporting intratheater operations in the AOR are under
     the operational control of the unified commander when there is a Change of Operational
     Control (CHOP). This can only be directed by the SECDEF.
     3.3.3. Meet rapid reaction mobility requirements necessary to support deployments of
     AMC, other commands, or services.
     3.3.4. Active-duty tanker units tasked to deploy from home station to provide theater
     support will have a response time in accordance with AFI 10-201, Status of Resources
     and Training System. AFRC/ANG units ordered to active duty to support AMC mobility
     missions will be ready to deploy within 72 hours from unit notification of mobilization.
     The response time includes 24 hours for mobilization. Note: Response time for units
     with mobility missions (i.e. non-alert, non- OPLAN 8010-FY) is defined as the time that
     unit is ready to begin loading of common user or organic lift (i.e. ready-to-load date at
     origin).
     3.3.5. Provide all UTCs listed in the UTA or ANG database equivalent.
  3.4. Functionals.
     3.4.1. Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE). (OPR: A3T). At the base level, the AFE
     Program is the lead function for executing AFE directives, coordinating planning and
     programming efforts concerning the Air Force AFE. See AFPD 11-3, Aircrew Flight
     Equipment (AFE); AFI 11-301 Volume 1, Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) Program;
     and AFI 11-301V1 AMCSUP Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) Program. Planning is
     essential to ensure aircrew support during contingencies and wartime. The wing AFE
     staff must play an active role in operation planning. Their interface is critical to ensure
     flexible and effective support planning, staging, deployment, employment, and mission
     execution. AFE UTCs must be fully outlined in applicable AMC supporting plans to
     OPLANs in order to support the integration of tanker, aeromedical, operations support,
     and airlift AFE into AMC operations.
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                      11


        3.4.1.1. When required, AFE ensures aircrews deploy with mission essential Aircrew
        Chemical Defense Equipment (ACDE) as specified in Operations Order (OPORD) or
        other mission directives.
        3.4.1.2. AFE deploys as part of individual flying squadrons to theater operations (i.e.,
        Tanker Task Force (TTF), Integral Tanker Unit Deployments (ITUD), etc.) to support
        flying units and provide the required support capability for the specific weapon
        system.
        3.4.1.3. AFE deploys to maintain centralized en route AFE support structures. En
        route AFE responsibilities include but are not limited to scheduled and unscheduled
        AFE maintenance, supporting aircraft generations, storage and issue of individual
        AFE; and relief and backfill for chemical defense operations.
     3.4.2. Logistics Support Requirements. (OPR: A4R). AMC active duty (AD), AFRC,
     and ANG units must be able to deploy IAW AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and
     Training System, and the AEF Online Functional Area Posturing and Guidance website,
     https://aef.afpc.randolph.af.mil/default.aspx.
     3.4.3. Theater Weather Teams. (OPR: A3AW). HQ AMC/A3AW will advise 18 AF/A3,
     Contingency Response Wings and Air Mobility Operations Squadrons on the need for
     deploying theater weather support teams as necessary or if requested. These personnel
     must be ready to deploy worldwide within 72 hours of initial notification.
     3.4.4. Operational Weather Support. (OPR: A3AW)
     3.4.5. AMC must maintain a force of weather personnel capable of deploying worldwide
     to provide weather services to airlift and air refueling operations or to augment theater
     weather teams. These personnel must be ready to deploy worldwide within 72 hours of
     initial notification.
     3.4.6. Security and Forces Protection. (OPR: A7S)
        3.4.6.1. AMC must maintain a security force capable of deploying worldwide to
        protect AMC aircraft and resources at airfields and forward operating locations
        during combat and contingency operations. Depending on the requirements of the
        contingency, this force could include elements of all three principal force protection
        functional areas, including security forces, Air Force Office of Special Investigation
        (AFOSI), and AMC intelligence. These units must be ready to deploy worldwide
        within 12 hours of notification.
        3.4.6.2. Security forces must be capable of establishing area security to protect
        deployed aircraft and resources immediately on arrival at deployed locations. When
        operating in locations of increased threat, PHOENIX RAVEN Security Teams will
        deploy with aircrews following guidance in AMCI 11-208, Tanker Airlift Operations,
        and Chapter 11.
        3.4.6.3. Air base defense elements must be able to immediately employ in a
        defensive mode (24-hour security coverage for AMC aircraft parking area /mobility
        ramp and living area) on arrival at deployed locations.
 12                                                              AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


          3.4.6.4. ANG and AFRC security forces units ordered to active duty to support AMC
          mobility missions will be ready to deploy within 72 hours from unit notification of
          mobilization. The response time includes 24 hours for mobilization.
      3.4.7. Aeromedical Evacuation. (OPR: A3OE). ARC Augmentation Requirements.
      Depending on the demand for airlift resources, AMC will depend on AMC-gained ARC
      assets to support its mission responsibilities. ANG/AFRC units ordered to active duty to
      support AMC missions shall be ready to deploy within 72 hours from unit notification of
      mobilization. The response time includes 24 hours for mobilization.
      3.4.8. Personnel Support teams for Contingency Operations (PERSCO). (OPR: A1).
      Consider PERSCO teams as essential personnel who must be among the first in and the
      last out of employment locations to maintain accurate strength accountability. These
      personnel must be ready to deploy within 24 hours of initial notification and two
      members must be part of the advanced echelon (ADVON) team. AFRC units ordered to
      active duty to support AMC mobility missions will be ready to deploy within 30 hours
      from unit notification of mobilization. The response time includes 24 hours for
      mobilization.
4. AMC Deployment Execution Guidance. See AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and
Execution, and AMCSUP 1 to AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution. (OPR: A4R)
   4.1. Mobility Bag Requirements. (OPR: A4R) Refer to AFI 10-403, Deployment
   Planning and Execution, for basic guidance. Note: In order to ensure seamless integration of
   ARC forces upon full mobilization, ANG and AFRC units will need to match AMC mobility
   bag standards as stated in this document, as well as, the requirements listed in the AFI 10-
   403, Deployment Planning and Execution, and the AMC Supplement 1 to AFI 10-403,
   Deployment Planning and Execution.
      4.1.1. Bag Authorizations: Mobility bag guidance is found in AFI 10-403, Deployment
      Planning and Execution.
      4.1.2. Air Crews: All AMC aircrews will use AS 450 Part A as authorization for aircrew
      body armor to meet body armor protection requirements. Only aircrew body armor
      provides the proper integration with flight gear (e.g., aircrew chemical defense
      equipment, survival vest, and parachutes). Aircrew body armor (Level IIIA) may be used
      by aircrews in conjunction with the Kevlar helmet to meet body armor protection
      requirements during ground operations. Commanders may authorize the ground flak vest
      in addition to the aircrew body armor for ground operations.
          4.1.2.1. KC-135 units will differentiate between OPLAN 8010-FY deployment
          requirements and conventional UTC tasks, as listed in the UTA (UMIS for the ANG),
          to compute total mobility bag requirements. Mobility A, B, and C-1 bags are only
          authorized for the most demanding of these two tasks, not both.
          4.1.2.2. For deliberate planning, an A, B, and C1 bag is authorized for each of the
          intertheater aircrew force not already in a deployment position. If tasked to enter a
          Chemical or Biological Threat Area, one complete operational ground crew ensemble
          will be issued to each intertheater aircrew member.
      4.1.3. Aircrew Mobility Bag Supply Management.
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                     13


        4.1.3.1. Individual operational units perform supply management for their assigned
        aircrew.
        4.1.3.2. Whenever possible, items will not be issued for deployment if the planned
        deployment time will exceed the shelf life expiration date.
        4.1.3.3. The supply mobility section and the life support flight will coordinate all C1
        and Dbag requirements with the base civil engineer readiness flight prior to
        submission to HQ AMC. HQ AMC/A7 will validate requirements with HQ
        AMC/A3TL and HQ AMC/A4R before sending the request for funding to Air Force
        Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC)/CXR. AFCEC/CXR centrally funds C-1 and D-bags
        with PE 27593, CBRN Passive Defense.
        4.1.3.4. Where applicable, “Host and Tenant” support agreements must be in place to
        specifically outline the deployment requirements of the mobility bags for the tenant
        unit. The host must forecast for the appropriate number of mobility bags and
        weapons to support these tenant-deploying personnel. Support agreements will
        outline the mobility requirements and how often these requirements must be updated.
        Support agreements will include specific responsibilities of funding for mobility bags.
     4.1.4. Individual Responsibility. See AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution,
     AFI 23-226, and AFI 23-101 for guidance.
     4.1.5. See AFI 10-2501 for mobility bag required contents.
  4.2. Arming Requirements. (OPR: A7)
     4.2.1. An OPORD, Concept of Operations (CONOPS), or tasking message provides the
     arming requirements for deploying personnel. The CONOPS or tasking message
     describes the arming requirements, the anticipated tasks that armed members will
     perform, and the C2 elements.
     4.2.2. One weapon will be available for each manpower requirement reflected in the
     deployable conventional Unit Type Codes (UTCs). This does not include OPLAN 8010-
     FY listed in the UTA (UMIS for ANG), except as otherwise stated in the medical ANGIs
     and chaplain AFIs. Security Forces weapons requirements (multiple weapons) are
     identified in appropriate Logistics Detail (LOGDETS). AF Catalog (AFCAT) 21-209
     Volume 1, Grounds Munitions, lists ammunition requirements.
        4.2.2.1. Allowance Standard (AS) 538 determines the type of weapon assigned to
        each position. However, the MAJCOM UTC Functional Area Managers (FAMs)
        may determine the type of weapon(s) based on the UTC requirements. FAMs must
        ensure table of allowance AS 538 is updated as soon as possible to identify any unit
        peculiar weapons their people are required to carry.
  4.3. Personnel Recovery (PR) Support. (OCR: A3T)
     4.3.1. AMC Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (SERE) specialists provide PR
     support for mission planning and theater specific High Risk of Capture (HRC) briefings.
     They also provide support to intelligence personnel providing briefing support in bare-
     base environments.
  4.4. Active Duty Substitution to a mobilized ARC position. (OPR: A3O)
14                                                              AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


     4.4.1. An AMC-gained ARC unit with an active duty Association may utilize an active
     duty member from that Association to fill part of a mobilized line if the following
     requirements are met:
        4.4.1.1. The mobilized line is split and opens to ARC volunteers. A mobilized line
        may be split to encourage volunteerism.
        4.4.1.2. The AD member is a volunteer and has the AD commander’s approval. The
        AD volunteer must be informed of their continued obligation to fill their individual
        AEF-assigned commitment. Additionally, the AD unit remains responsible for
        meeting UTC deployment requirements.
     4.4.2. AMC/A3O coordination is required for proper adjudication in Deliberate Crisis
     Action Planning Execution Segment (DCAPES) to ensure tasking flows to appropriate
     units.
     4.4.3. Supported Combatant Commander guidance governs tour length and the ability to
     split lines. This may restrict the ability to substitute members.
     4.4.4. While not always feasible, due diligence in attempting to schedule deployment of
     ARC and AD Association concurrently is necessary. This prior coordination and
     planning in the tasking and mobilization process can preclude the need for substitution
     producing a more accurate mobilization order.
5. Base Operations Support. (OPR: A3O; OCR: A3A, A4R, A7X; 18 AF/A5; 618 AOC
(TACC)/XOP; USAF EC)
  5.1. Base Operations Support: (Refer to AMCP 10-405 for detailed Base Operating
  Support (BOS) guidance). The BOS provided by host commands, units or nations will
  normally include, but will not be limited to, the following:
     5.1.1. Supply and spares storage, and requisitioning and issue under standard supply
     system procedures. AMC units should plan on using their Mobility Readiness Spares
     Package (MRSP) for the first 30 days.
     5.1.2. Available and dependable Petroleum, Oil, and Lubricants (POL) stocks and
     refueling capability, as required.
     5.1.3. Base transportation capability to include vehicle operations and vehicle
     maintenance.
     5.1.4. Civil engineering support, including site layout, utilities, fire protection, crash
     rescue, passive defense, emergency management, and Explosive Ordnance Disposal
     (EOD).
     5.1.5. Services support including food service, lodging, organizational laundry, mortuary
     affairs, recreation, fitness support, and field exchanges.
     5.1.6. Medical support and facilities.
     5.1.7. Chaplain support and facilities.
     5.1.8. Staff Judge Advocate support and facilities.
     5.1.9. Off-equipment maintenance within host capability.
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                     15


     5.1.10. Aircrew intelligence briefing and debriefing support. However, if intelligence
     support programmed or offered by the host is inadequate, HQ AMC will provide organic
     augmentation to support mobility-oriented intelligence.
     5.1.11. Security for deployed aircraft IAW standards established in AFPD 31-1,
     Integrated Defense and AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense. If security or defense
     requirements at the deployment base(s) exceed host command and HQ AMC capabilities,
     US Air Force assistance may be required.
     5.1.12. Common-user Communications management services. Support to include
     official and personal mail, Enterprise Information Management (EIM) processes, client
     EIM support for diverse information management processes, content/portal management,
     functional area records management, web page development/web site management,
     internet/e-mail training policy education/oversight, and basic client support
     administration (CSA) duties.
     5.1.13. Aircrew briefings and staff support. Aircrew weather briefings for air mobility
     missions under OPCON of 18 AF will normally be provided by 618 AOC (TACC)
     Global Mobility Weather Ops directorate.
     5.1.14. Airfield management and air traffic control as required based on existing
     capabilities at the deployed location.
     5.1.15. Public Affairs (PA) support beyond the capabilities of the deployed public affairs
     team, as required.
     5.1.16. Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE).
  5.2. Organizations, Manpower, and Personnel Support. (OPR: A1)
     5.2.1. Manpower and Organizations.
        5.2.1.1. Utilization of manpower personnel is essential in basic planning of any
        operation, exercise, or contingency for employment as well as redeployment actions.
        They provide G-series unit orders, obtain Personnel Accounting Symbol (PAS) codes,
        flow levy tasks, manage UTCs, and review Designed Operational Capability (DOC)
        and Mission Capability (MISCAP) statements.
        5.2.1.2. Expeditionary Unit (OPR: A1M; OCR: A3OD). Air Force Expeditionary
        (AEF) units will be established in support of wartime or contingency operations.
        Units will be organized the same as regular units and at the organizational level
        required to meet mission requirements e.g. wing, group, squadron, detachment, or
        operating location. Once it is determined that AMC maintains OPCON of deploying
        forces, G-series unit orders must be established outlining command relationships and
        organization structure. G-series unit orders are coordinated through AMC/CC, 18
        AF, EC, 618 AOC (TACC), JA and functional staffs prior to official publishing by
        A1M. G-series unit orders should be published at least 10 days prior to deploying,
        redeploying or moving forces to another location.
        5.2.1.3. Provisional Personnel Accounting Symbol (OPR: A1M; OCR: A1R). A
        manpower technician will obtain a provisional PAS code using AF Form 1726. PAS
        codes will be assigned to expeditionary units and registered in the PAS system.
16                                                             AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


        5.2.1.4. DOC Statement (OPR: A1R; OCR: Functional Staff). Review DOC
        statements for correct UTC and Unit Identification Codes (UIC). Perform a
        “requirement-to-resources” match to ensure there are enough manpower resources on
        the Unit Manpower Document to fill requirements in the UTC. If discrepancies are
        found, work with the functional area manager to correct the DOC statement.
        5.2.1.5. Work with Functional Managers in the establishment of any new UTCs that
        AMC will be Manpower and Equipment Force Packing System OPR. Review the
        AFSCs, grade mix, and number of manpower requirements to ensure accuracy.
        Review MISCAPs for correct substitution rules and accuracy. Ensure UTC data is
        properly entered and coordinated in DCAPES prior to transmitting to Air Force for
        coordination.
     5.2.2. Personnel Support teams for Contingency Operations (PERSCO) provide essential
     support to deployed forces including critical strength accountability for deployed
     commanders and owning MAJCOMs. Additionally, the utilization of these teams is basic
     to the planning of any operation, exercise, or contingency for employment as well as
     redeployment actions.
        5.2.2.1. Manpower package UTC RFMAL and/or RFMAP should deploy and the
        manpower technician selected to deploy must be familiar and be able to assist in the
        establishment of the correct organization structure and identify the correct number of
        manpower requirements needed to support the mission. The manpower technician
        must be able to export and import data from the wartime system into standard
        spreadsheet, analyze data, prepare and brief senior leaders. In addition, the
        manpower technician must be familiar with database management system software,
        organization policies, organization change requests, deployment manning
        requirement documents, and unit type codes.
     5.2.3. Military Personnel Appropriations (MPA) (OPR: A1; OCR 18 AF/A3)
     AMC/A1RM will insure that there are sufficient MPA man-day budgets available to
     support the Air Reserve Components activation to Title 10 status to support the mission
     when there are insufficient AD forces to execute the mission. 18 AF/A3 in coordination
     with AMC functional managers must determine when ARC forces will be required to
     support a particular mission. A budget request for MPA must be submitted from 18
     AF/A5 to A1RM during the planning phase of the mission.
     5.2.4. Services.
        5.2.4.1. AMC must maintain a force capable of deploying worldwide to provide
        initial and sustainment food, lodging, organizational laundry, mortuary, fitness and
        recreation, and field exchange support to a bed down population of up to 1100 people
        using expedient or existing facilities. This force consists of Prime Readiness In Base
        Services (RIBS) teams, ready to deploy within 22 hours of notification, and capable
        of providing listed services during combat operations or contingencies. ANG/AFRC
        units ordered to active duty to support AMC mobility missions will be ready to
        deploy within 28 hours from unit notification of mobilization. The response time
        includes 24 hours for mobilization.
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                         17


        5.2.4.2. If deployed to an established installation, coordinate with the host wing
        Force Support Squadron (FSS) or equivalent to arrange any required support. If
        deploying to a bare-base environment, include Services personnel in the ADVON, or,
        as a minimum, on the first aircraft departing. It is critical for Services to establish, in
        conjunction with Civil Engineering, lodging and food operations locations prior to the
        reception of the main force. Additionally, Services personnel must be available to
        assign and track lodging arrangements (including Lodging locator—coordinated with
        PERSCO) for all personnel and ensure initial feeding requirements are met.
  5.3. Intelligence Support. (OPR: A2)
     5.3.1. AMC intelligence personnel provide intelligence support for mission planning,
     force protection, deployed C2 assets, and ground personnel. They also provide aircrew
     intelligence briefing and debriefing support in bare-base environments according to this
     document as noted below under Bare Base Support. AMC forces will retain the
     capability for self-support of intelligence requirements in situations where such support
     cannot be satisfied by the host unit.
     5.3.2. Air Force Office of Special Investigation (AFOSI) is responsible for identifying,
     investigating, and neutralizing espionage, terrorism, and major criminal activities targeted
     against AMC resources. It is essential AFOSI forces arrive with initial deployed
     elements to properly accomplish their part of the force protection mission.
  5.4. Operations Support Staff. (OPR: A3O)
     5.4.1. Airfield Operations and Weather Support. (OPR: A3A)
        5.4.1.1. AMC will maintain a force of airfield management and air traffic control
        personnel capable of deploying worldwide to serve airlift and air refueling operations
        or to augment intratheater operations. HQ AMC/A3A determines augmentation
        requirements as necessary. In the event CONUS operations must be limited to
        support contingency requirements, HQ AMC/A3A will coordinate authorization for
        AMC CONUS units to curtail services if required; i.e., reduce airfield and ATC
        facility operating hours.
     5.4.2. Theater Weather Support. (OPR: A3AW)
        5.4.2.1. Personnel deploying in support of intertheater en route tanker and airlift
        forces will be under the OPCON of 618 AOC (TACC), but will coordinate airbase
        weather support with the theater Operational Weather Squadron (OWS). To maintain
        proficiency, weather personnel will adhere to training requirements IAW AMCI 15-
        101, Weather Operations and Support.
        5.4.2.2. Weather Equipment.       Weather units must identify equipment and
        maintenance requirements to the appropriate communications units. Adequate
        communication capabilities (including tactical) are essential for weather teams to
        provide meteorological services to deployed forces. When dedicated circuits cannot
        be provided, the appropriate communication units will give weather support
        personnel access to common-user or C2 communications with a priority dictated by
        operational considerations.
18                                                               AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


  5.5. Logistics Support. (OPR: A4) For Base Operation Support (BOS) information, see
  functional area UTS MISCAPS, Prioritization and Sequencing (P&S), DOC statements,
  mobilization guidelines found in U.S. Code and functional specific guidance.
  5.6. Communications. (OPR: A6)
     5.6.1. The mission of Theater Deployable Communications (TDC) teams is to support
     Air Force-directed activities by providing scalable Command, Control, Communications,
     and Computers (C4) capabilities and services from initial employment phases of
     contingency and wartime operations through redeployment. The objective is to achieve
     connectivity between deployed forces and C2 centers and to communicate information
     rapidly, accurately, and securely. AMC’s contingency communications resources are
     organized as TDC Elements and aligned as work centers within AMC or AFRC
     communications squadrons.
     5.6.2. Theater Deployable Communication elements provide full spectrum C4 support to
     include C2 and base information infrastructure. C2 support is point-to-point and ground-
     air-ground secure voice and data communications via Ultra High Frequency (UHF) single
     channel Satellite Communications (SATCOM), High Frequency (HF)/Single Side Ban
     (SSB), and UHF/Very High Frequency (VHF). Base information infrastructure support
     provides local networks Non-secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNET)/
     Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET)/Telephone) and wide area network
     connectivity through multiplexer and satellite systems. It is facilitated through the AF
     Theater Deployable Communications program.
     5.6.3. Communication squadron TDC elements will respond within 24 hours to support
     missions as directed. AMC-gained ARC units provide TDC UTCs to support AMC’s
     deployable communications missions. ARC units ordered to active duty to support AMC
     mobility missions will be ready to deploy within 36 hours from unit notification of
     mobilization. The response time includes 24 hours for mobilization. They have the same
     mobility requirements as active duty units after recall and mobilization notification. The
     supported theater commander is expected to provide en route and terminal navigational
     support, as well as ensure required common-user communications and adequate (BOS)
     structure (power, hygiene, housing, etc.) are in place at deployed locations for support of
     AMC forces.
     5.6.4. AMC will maintain the ability to provide deployable information management
     services. These activities include, but are not limited to, client enterprise information
     management (EIM) support for diverse information management processes,
     content/portal management, functional area records management, web page development/
     web site management, internet/e-mail training and policy education/oversight, basic
     client support administration (CSA) and postal services. These resources are aligned
     with AMC's and AMC-gained forces and detailed in the UTA, unit DOC statements, and
     operational plans.
  5.7. Civil Engineering, Security, and Force Protection. (OPR: A7 & A7S)
     5.7.1. AMC must maintain a Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) capable of
     deploying worldwide to provide initial bed down of Air Force personnel and equipment
     using expedient or existing facilities. AMC must conduct integration planning,
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                     19


     execution, follow-on operations, and maintenance support of facilities and utilities to
     assess, recover, and restore mission capability during combat operations or contingencies.
     These personnel must be ready to deploy worldwide within 24 hours of notification.
     ANG and AFRC units ordered to active duty to support AMC mobility missions will be
     ready to deploy within DOC response time. The response time includes 24 hours for
     mobilization.
        5.7.1.1. These forces will maintain a 24hour essential fire-fighting capability for
        aircraft, structures, POL, and munitions supported by fire-fighting equipment and
        vehicles during combat operations and contingencies.
        5.7.1.2. Air Force Civil Engineer Readiness W series UTCs will provide planning
        and execution capability to integrate AMC resources and to advise the deployed
        commander on preparing, reacting, and mitigating the effects of the enemies’ use of
        Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-yield Explosives (CBRNE)
        weapons. They will maintain major accident and natural disaster response capability
        during combat operations and contingencies.
        5.7.1.3. AMC is responsible for providing at least a six person (EOD) lead UTC,
        equipped to survey bed down locations for explosive hazards: to protect personnel,
        facilities, and resources from the effects of unexploded ordnance, hazardous
        components, and to clear booby traps and clandestine explosive devices from areas,
        enabling operations to begin or continue in a safe environment. The EOD team
        augments the US Secret Service and the US State Department in protection of the
        President, Vice President, and other dignitaries who might visit operational locations.
        AMC EOD teams must be ready to deploy worldwide within 22 hours of notification.
        Additional EOD personnel and equipment UTCs are available to support other
        requirements and are available through the Aerospace Expeditionary Force Center
        (AEFC) EOD Enabler Library.
     5.7.2. Intelligence. (OPR: A2)
        5.7.2.1. Intelligence personnel will assist in the development of threat assessments to
        include criminal, terrorist, economic, political, military, and paramilitary threats to
        base personnel. Intelligence personnel will also maintain vigilance on the changing
        worldwide situation and assist in determining the possible effect on the threat to base
        personnel.
        5.7.2.2. For deployments to high threat or unstable areas, the AMC Threat Working
        Group (TWG) will make threat mitigation recommendations to reduce risk to
        OCONUS aircraft missions. AMC/A2 and the TWG will also post recommendations,
        briefings, and assessments on the AMC/A2 classified web page. HQ AMC/A7 may
        assign a Security Forces NCO to CREs/MSTs as a security coordinator for large or
        high threat operations. This NCO will coordinate security measures with host nation-
        assigned security personnel to ensure protection of aircraft and resources IAW AFI
        31-101. Additionally, HQ AMC/A7 may assign personnel to accompany airfield
        survey teams and other deployments for the purpose of evaluating physical security of
        deployed locations, and HQ AMC/SG will assign personnel to accompany airfield
        survey teams and other deployments to evaluate and mitigate medical and
        environmental health threats at a deployed location.
20                                                                 AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


        5.7.2.3. CRE Commanders must ensure an antiterrorism/force protection (AT/FP)
        Officer or NCO is assigned to all OCONUS deployments as their subject matter
        expert and advisor on AT/FP matters. This individual must ensure each person within
        the unit is aware of the terrorism threat, and is trained to employ methods to reduce
        risk or mitigate the effects should an attack occur. Additionally, the AT/FP advisor
        will assist the commander in ensuring compliance with DoD Instruction O-2000.12,
        Anti-Terrorism/Force Protections Program, and AFI 10-245 and AMC Sup 1 to AFI
        10-245, Air Force Antiterrorism Program. AT/FP advisors must be graduates of an
        approved Level II Antiterrorism Course from an Air Force training center, including
        the Air Mobility Warfare Center. Qualified AFOSI, A7, or Intelligence personnel
        may serve as an AT/FP advisor.
     5.7.3. Contracting Support. (OPR: A7K)
        5.7.3.1. Contracting support is essential. Every effort must be made to include
        contracting support in the ADVON, or, as a minimum, on the first aircraft departing.
        This contingent is responsible for contracting for the initial arrival of personnel for
        any required contract quarters, subsistence, and transportation, as well as any other
        support required for material or parts. Ensure the accounting and finance function
        provides sufficient disbursing agents to allow timely contracting support for the
        contingency contracting officers.
  5.8. Financial Management Support. (OPR: FM)
     5.8.1. If deployed to an established installation, coordinate with the host wing
     Comptroller to arrange any required financial support. If deployed to a bare-base
     environment, include Financial Management technicians in the ADVON, or, as a
     minimum, on the first aircraft departing along with the contracting personnel. It is
     essential that financial management and contracting personnel deploy together to ensure
     logistics requirements for arriving personnel have been satisfied.
  5.9. Chaplain Support. (OPR: HC)
     5.9.1. Chaplain Corps teams provide essential religious support to deployed forces,
     including, but not limited to, worship opportunities, pastoral counseling, unit visitation,
     and advising the commander on religion, ethics, morals, morale, and quality of life issues.
     Include these teams in basic planning of any operation, exercise, or contingency. Deploy
     AMC-gained chaplain teams as required.
  5.10. Historian Support. (OPR: HO)
     5.10.1. A historian technician will normally be deployed to collect and preserve
     information and documents and provide historical coverage of the contingency in
     accordance with guidance in AFI 84-102, Historical Operations in Contingency and War.
  5.11. Staff Judge Advocate Support. (OPR: JA)
     5.11.1. The Staff Judge Advocate office provides support and advice on all legal issues
     and disciplinary matters that may arise. These may include: military justice matters;
     claims; fiscal and contract law; international law, including status of forces, basing rights,
     international agreements, foreign criminal jurisdiction, and Rules of Engagement, Rules
     for the Use of Force, and the Law of Armed Conflict; personal legal assistance for
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                      21


     deployed troops and, IAW with DoD Instruction 1400.32, DoD Civilian Work Force
     Contingency and Emergency Planning Guidelines and Procedures, and AFI 51-504,
     Legal Assistance, Notary, and Preventive Law Programs, limited legal assistance for
     DoD civilians or contractors accompanying the force. Include judge advocate(s) and
     paralegal(s) in basic planning of any operation, exercise, or contingency. Deploy on a
     first-in and last-out basis.
  5.12. Public Affairs Support. (OPR: PA)
     5.12.1. Public Affairs may be deployed to support air mobility tasks within CONUS or
     overseas to fixed locations, along the en route system, or to a bare-base environment. PA
     provides trusted counsel to leaders; builds, maintains, and strengthens Airman morale and
     readiness; builds public trust and support; and promotes global influence and deterrence
     through campaigns communicating the Air Force’s air and space superiority and the
     capabilities of global attack and rapid global mobility. The PA mission in the deployed
     environment is maximum release of information to target audiences through internal
     information, media relations and civic outreach efforts, providing security review to
     ensure information and imagery are within national and operational security guidelines.
     PA integrates efforts with Information Operations (IO) consistent with policy or statutory
     limitations. Duties include, but are not limited to, working with the media and producing
     internal information products. PA is fully integrated into AEF and may be subject to
     other short-notice deployments. PA should be sourced during basic planning for all
     operations, exercises, or contingencies. When deployed, PA personnel will require full
     messing, lodging and sustainment support.
  5.13. Medical Support. (OPR: SG)
     5.13.1. Medical Support. (OPR: SGP/SGX) Medical support for AMC deploying airlift
     and tanker forces will be provided either by identifying organic AMC medical assets to
     deploy with airlift and tanker elements, Medical Global Reach Laydown Team or by
     arranging for the supported Air Force Component Command or other collocated medical
     element to provide medical and other base support. The HQ AMC/SGP Functional staff
     will decide the size of the medical support package by evaluating the number of forces
     deployed to an operational location, the safety and vulnerability local food and water
     sources, local medical capabilities, evaluate the threats of local infectious and vector-
     borne diseases, the hygiene of local billeting and public facilities, and local
     environmental and industrial threats.
     5.13.2. Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) System. (OPR: A3OE) The Air Force AE system
     provides fixed-wing movement of patients requiring supervision by Aeromedical
     Evacuation Crewmembers (AECMs) to locations offering appropriate levels of medical
     care. The AE system can operate as far forward as fixed-wing aircraft are able to conduct
     air/land operations. AE is conducted using organic airlift aircraft appropriate for the
     volume and clinical requirements of the patients to be moved and is selected by the airlift
     control agency. Aeromedical Evacuation is integral to Air Mobility and any mention of
     airlift assets in this instruction includes AE assets as well.
        5.13.2.1. AE can significantly improve casualty recovery rates by providing timely
        and effective transportation of the sick and wounded to medical facilities offering
        appropriate levels of care. The AE system provides:
22                                                               AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


           5.13.2.1.1. Integrated control of casualty movement by air transport;
           5.13.2.1.2. Clinical and operational support personnel;
           5.13.2.1.3. Equipment for in-flight supportive care and ground support
           operations;
           5.13.2.1.4. Critical Care Air Transport Teams (CCATT) to monitor and manage
           specific patients requiring intensive care;
           5.13.2.1.5. Staging facilities on or in the vicinity of airheads and air bases for the
           administrative processing and care of casualties entering, en route through, or
           leaving the AE system;
           5.13.2.1.6. Command and control of all theater AE forces and AE operations; and
           5.13.2.1.7. Support to the communication network between airlift C2 agencies.
        5.13.2.2. C2 functions exercised over AE missions are consistent with those for all
        air mobility missions and are conducted in accordance with the C2 processes
        described in Joint Publication 3-17, Air Mobility Operations
     5.13.3. Medical Oversight. (OPR: SG)
        5.13.3.1. Joint Force Surgeon (JFS). Appointed by the Joint Force Commander
        (JFC) to serve as the theater or JTF special staff officer responsible for establishing,
        monitoring, or evaluating joint force health service support (JP 4-02, Health Service
        Support). The JFS is responsible for coordinating and integrating health service
        support within the AOR as well as coordinating intratheater patient movement
        support to the Joint Task Force Commander (JTF/CC). The JFS establishes patient
        movement policies and should coordinate with the USTRANSCOM, supported
        combatant command, and other Component Commands. The JFS should appoint a
        theater Medical Director who is responsible for the quality of patient movement
        clinical care provided within the AOR. The Medical Director appoints the theater
        Validating Flight Surgeon(s) VFS(s) who will support a joint patient movement
        requirements center mobilized to their AOR. The theater VFS and Patient Movement
        Requirements Center (PMRC) provide clinical oversight of a theater’s AE operations.
     5.13.4. Patient Movement Requirements Centers (PMRCs)
        5.13.4.1. Global and theater patient movement is the responsibility of the PMRC.
        The PMRC manages and coordinates all patient movement. The PMRC validates
        patient movement requests, regulates patients to appropriate medical facilities for
        continued medical care, and determines the mode of transportation (air, sea, or
        ground) for the movement of patients. PMRCs should exist at the joint level, as an
        element of the joint movement center, to ensure visibility of joint assets for PM lift
        options. PMRC staffing includes Flight Nurses (FN) as Patient Movement Clinical
        Coordinators (PMCC). One or more theater VFS are assigned or delegated by the
        theater Command Surgeon to work with the PMCC. Theater VFS provide physician
        medical direction and clinical oversight of PM validation, transfer, and en route care
        planning, and en route care, as needed, during Aeromedical Evacuation (AE). The
        PMCCs provide nursing care and administrative expertise during validation, and may
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                      23


         be delegated validation authority by the VFS for routine patients using approved
         algorithms.
     5.13.5. Aeromedical Evacuation Coordination.
         5.13.5.1. The 618 AOC (TACC) or Aeromedical Evacuation Control Team (AECT),
         provides C2 for tasking and execution for air mobility assets used to accomplish AE
         missions within their respective areas of operation. These agencies provide the
         critical link between C2 of airlift operations and medical/joint interface. The theater
         VFS and PMRC provide operational clinical oversight of a theater’s AE operations.
         In coordination with the Global Patient Movement Requirements Center (GPMRC),
         the Joint Patient Movement Requirements Center (JPMRC)/Theater Patient
         Movement Regulating Center (TPMRC) receive, consolidate, and validate theater
         requests for patient movements. The 618 AOC (TACC)/AE Cell (618 AOC
         (TACC)/XOPA) is the source of AE clinical and operational expertise and mission
         execution and oversees all strategic intertheater and CONUS AE missions. The AE
         Cell informs/reports mission progression and medical issues to the appropriate PMRC
         when applicable. GPMRC coordinates with regional lead agents for CONUS
         movement requirements, as required.
6. Employment Guidance for Austere Base Operations. (OPR: A3O; OCR: A3A/ A4R,
A7X; 18 AF/A5; 618 AOC (TACC)/XOP; USAF EC)
  6.1. Austere Basing. (OPR: 18 AF/A5) In addition to base support requirements noted in
  paragraph 5 above, Austere Basing Concept of Operations must consider the following:
     6.1.1. AMC forces must prepare to conduct operations at a bare base. Certain
     operational situations and environments may require AMC forces to conduct operations
     at an austere base environment. Therefore, AMC forces must be prepared to operate into
     and from operating locations with austere facilities. As a result, there is a need to
     organize, train, and equip forces able to deploy in minimum time and respond to
     immediate bare-base operational requirements.
     6.1.2. Reducing the number of personnel and the quantity and weight of equipment that
     require deployment as mission support to the minimum necessary is a primary
     consideration for AMC operations. Support for AMC forces and the methods used to
     provide such support are dependent on location, the concept of operations, and the
     availability of local resources. The following basic concepts and standards provide
     general guidance for the mobility of AMC forces during deployment, employment, and
     redeployment, when using austere bases.
     6.1.3. HQ 18 AF coordinates logistics support requirements with appropriate unified and
     specified commands, other services, and geographic area commanders. Where AMC
     units use bare-base installations operated by other commands or services for staging,
     dispersing, or other operations, the command or service having jurisdiction over the base
     will provide logistics support to AMC tenant units as mutually agreed upon between the
     commands concerned.
  6.2. Maintenance Operations Support Requirements (OPR: A4R). HQ AMC/A4R will
  develop and review the support requirements for AMC, CRG, CRE, Maintenance Recovery
  Team (MRT), aerial port, Tanker Task Force (TTF), and deployable technical services units;
24                                                                AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


  and, will specify detailed requirements such as utilities, security, covered storage, open
  storage, and parking ramps for each AMC deployable unit listed above. Note: During
  wartime or contingencies, 618 AOC (TACC)/XOP will develop requirements in conjunction
  with the affected functional area manager.
     6.2.1. AMC Unique Assets and Equipment (A4R) Deployment and pre-positioning of
     HQ AMC required assets will be in accordance with guidelines specified in the logistics
     annex of applicable OPORD, OPLAN, or mission directives. HQ AMC/A4R will fulfill
     the following actions:
         6.2.1.1. Screen AMC assets scheduled for deployment or pre-positioning to avoid
         unnecessary duplication and exceeding the capabilities of allocated air mobility
         assets.
         6.2.1.2. Determine the quantity of AMC unique assets to be deployed or pre-
         positioned based on maintenance concepts, required reaction time and flexibility, and
         peacetime authorizations of equipment for the using organizations.
         6.2.1.3. HQ AMC retains control of AMC unique assets deployed or pre-positioned
         in support of a bare base operation at all times. These assets will not transfer to other
         units without concurrence of the senior AMC representative on site.
  6.3. Maintenance Support. (OPR: A4R) Maintenance support requirements are defined
  on applicable DOC statements and UTC mission capability statements (MISCAPs) of tasked
  UTCs. Units will deploy with equipment and personnel necessary to perform on-equipment
  flight line maintenance as provided in this guidance.
  6.4. Support Requirements. (OPR: A4R) US Air Force policy on theater-positioned war
  reserve materiel provides for support of deploying AMC mobility forces and technical
  services. War Reserve Materiel (WRM) guidance and equipment accountability guidance is
  found in AFI 25-101, War Reserve Materiel (WRM) Program Guidance and Procedures,
  AFI 23-101, and AFH 23-123V3, Air Force Equipment Management.
7. Post Deployment and Reintegration. (OPR: A3O/ OCR: A1 (Community Action
Information Board-Integrated Delivery Systems (IDS) Team)
  7.1. Pre-deployment/ Deployment/Redeployment/Reintegration Support Process. AMC’s
  goal is to successfully reintegrate Airmen with families, friends, community, and work
  centers following a long term deployment. (Reference Annex A, AMC Deployment/
  Redeployment/Post Dedeployment/ Reintegration Process Amplifying Guidance, September
  2006 (Atch 2).)
     7.1.1. Every commander should ensure that the personnel assigned to their unit are
     familiar with Annex A, AMC Deployment/Redeployment/Post Deployment Reintegration
     Process Amplifying Guidance, Annex B, AMC Reintegration Program(Atch 3) and, as
     applicable, Annex B, Attachment 1, Sample Reintegration Wingman Checklist (Atch 4).
     7.1.2. Post deployment reintegration is comprised of decompression and reintegration
     phased events, as well as follow-up contact. The follow-up contact should occur after the
     post deployment downtime is completed.
     7.1.3. An essential component of post deployment reintegration is the early identification
     of individuals that may be at higher-risk for readjustment problems. Specifically, those
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                   25


     individuals being deployed on Contingency, Exercise, Deployment (CED) orders, i.e. on
     an AEF rotation to the Southwest Asia Area of Responsibility (AOR), and those deployed
     on Temporary Duty (TDY) or Aircrew orders, as is the case for many aircrew and
     support members. The reintegration process for individuals who are deployed on
     deployment orders is captured in a DoD directed Deployment Health Assessment
     program and is also included in AMC’s Reintegration Program (Annex B).
     7.1.4. A significant number of AMC’s aircrews and support personnel accumulate
     particularly high numbers of days TDY that are not accounted for under the normal
     deployment processes. In order to assess and minimize the effects of accumulated days
     TDY on these airmen, the Community Action Information Board (CAIB) - Integrated
     Delivery Systems (IDS) Team has developed a reintegration program that will be
     implemented at the squadron level. The basic requirements for this program follow, and
     is amplified in Annex A.
     7.1.5. The squadron commander or designated representative will conduct a face-to-face
     support and reintegration briefing with individuals as they accumulate 120 days of TDY
     per a 365 day time period.
     7.1.6. The Integrated Delivery Systems Team will provide post deployment support and
     reintegration training to members as they accumulate 165 days of TDY per a 365 day
     time period. The member will complete a post deployment assessment with the squadron
     commander or representative when they reach the 165 days of TDY per the 365 days
     milestone.
     7.1.7. The Integrated Delivery Systems Team will provide redeployment support and
     reintegration training to members as they accumulate 200 days of TDY per a 365 day
     time period. The member will complete an additional post deployment assessment with
     the squadron commander when they reach the 200 days of TDY per the 365 day
     milestone.
     7.1.8. When Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Airmen are located on or near an
     AMC installation, it is preferable to employ a Total Force post deployment reintegration
     approach. Squadron commanders will ensure that Air Reserve Component Airmen are
     aware of post deployment reintegration requirements before departure from the AOR and
     are given appropriate briefings and assessments.
  7.2. Post Deployment Downtime. (OPR: A1R; OCR Aircrews: A3O) Post Deployment
  Downtime is a commander’s program designed to help maintain quality of life and retain
  valued Air Force members to keep our military strong and ready.
     7.2.1. Aircrew members will have 1-hour compensatory time for each 3 hours off-station
     (1 day for every 3 days off-station) with a maximum of 4 days when performing flight
     duties.
     7.2.2. All members, following a deployment away from home station of 45 days or
     longer, will be given not more than 7 days compensatory time (3-day special pass IAW
     AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, and 4 days unscheduled time). Following a
     deployment away from home station of 90 days or longer, authorized compensatory time
     is not more than 14 days (4-day special pass IAW AFI 36-3003 and 10 days unscheduled
     time). During compensatory time, members will not be assigned formal duties and will
26                                                             AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


     be given appropriate time to care for personal and professional matters deferred while
     TDY. The member must be able to check in daily and report to duty within 24 hours
     during the unscheduled time period or must take leave. Commanders must use their
     discretion IAW AFI 36-3003. Note: Aircrew members can’t combine post deployment
     downtime as defined here in paragraph 7.2.2. with paragraph 7.2.1.
        7.2.2.1. Compensatory time applies to active duty personnel, including Air Reserve
        Component personnel activated under a mobilization authority and personnel serving
        temporary tours of active duty on MPA days. FAMs must take into account
        compensatory time for aircrew and all members when calculating MPA day requests.
        Note: MPA management is the responsibility of AMC/A1 and is operated and
        managed through MAJCOM Directorate functional managers by A1RM.
     7.2.3. All personnel must in-process through Commander Support Staff (CSS) or
     Personnel Readiness Function prior to starting post deployment downtime. Failure to
     comply could adversely affect members Duty Status.
     7.2.4. Returning members must sign in with their unit’s CSS the first duty day after
     return. Post-deployment downtime will start as soon as possible following return to
     home station, not to exceed 72 hours after return, and only after signing in with the CSS
     and completing an in-processing checklist.
     7.2.5. If a member takes leave immediately following deployment, the commander has
     the discretion to allow compensatory time upon return.
     7.2.6. Unit commanders should make liberal use of the special 4-day pass as provided in
     AFI 36-3003 during post deployment downtime, particularly for ARC members deployed
     away from their home unit.
     7.2.7. The OG/CC can waive post mission crew rest or Post Deployment Downtime in
     the event of an emergency or impending disaster that requires the member to be on duty.
     In cases where the waiver is implemented, commanders will make every attempt to
     restore the lost down time at a later date.




                                          SCOTT M. HANSON, Major General, USAF
                                          Director of Operations
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                27


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 4500.54E, DoD Foreign Clearance Program (FCP), December 28, 2009
DOD Instruction 1400.32, DoD Civilian Work Force Contingency and Emergency Planning
Guidelines and Procedure, April 24, 1995
DoD Instruction 2000.12, DoD Antiterrorism/Force Protection (AT) Program, March 10, 2012
DoD Instruction 2000.16, DoD Antiterrorism Standards, December, 8 2006
JP 3-17, Air Mobility Operations, September 30, 2013
JP 4-02, Health Service Support, July 26, 2012
AFCAT 21-209, Volume 1, Grounds Munitions, November 9, 2007
AFH 23-123 Vol 3, Air Force Equipment Management, August 8, 2013
AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System, April 19, 2013
AFI 10-201, AMCSUP, Status of Resources and Training System, June 2, 2011
AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism, September 21, 2012
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning & Operations,
January 24, 2007
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, December 7, 2006
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, September 20, 2012
AFI 10-403, AMC Supplement 1, Deployment Planning and Execution, May 3, 2011
AFI 10-404, Base Support & Expeditionary (BAS&E) Site Planning, October 11, 2011
AFI 11-301, Volume 1, Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) Program, February 25, 2009
AFI 11-301, Volume 1, AMCSUP, Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE), February 26, 2014
AFI 23-101, Air Force Materiel Management, August 8, 2013
AFI 23-226, Chemical Warfare Defense Equipment (CWDE) Consolidated Mobility Bag
Management, May 1, 1997
AFI 25-101, War Reserve Materiel (WRM) Program Guidance and Procedures, May 2, 2005
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense (FOUO), October 8, 2009
AFI 31-117, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, June 29, 2012
AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Program, February 24, 2009
AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, October 26, 2009
AFI 36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian Work Force, July 21, 1994
AFI 51-504, Legal Assistance, Notary, and Preventive Law Programs, October 27, 2003
 28                                                            AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


AFI 84-102, Historical Operations in Contingency and War, July 24, 2013
AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, August 2, 2013
AFJ 48-110, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis for the Prevention of Infectious Diseases,
October 7, 2013
AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air & Space Expeditionary Force, April 30, 2009
AFPD 11-3, Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE), September 24, 2013
AFPD 16-8, Arming of Aircrew, Mobility and Overseas Personnel, May 18, 1993
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, October 28, 2011
AMCI 11-208, Tanker/ Airlift Operations, June 1, 2000
AMCI 15-101, Weather Operations and Support, October 27, 2010
AMCPAM 10-405, AMC Deployment, Employment, and Redeployment Guide for Base
Operating Support, April 27, 2011
AMCPAM 31-1, Air Mobility Command Arming Policy, August 3, 2005
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation
AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training
AF Form 1726, Personnel Accounting Symbol Actions

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A&FRF—-Airman and Family Readiness Flight
ACDE—-Aircrew Chemical Defense Equipment
AD—-Active Duty
ADCON—-Administrative Control
ADVON—-Advanced Echelon
AE—-Aeromedical Evacuation
AECT—-Aeromedical Evacuation Control Team
AEF—-Air Expeditionary Forces
AECM—-Aeromedical Evacuation Crew Member
AEFC—-Aerospace Expeditionary Force Center
AERP—-Aircrew Eye Respiratory Protection
AFCAT—-Air Force Catalog
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                   29


AFCEC—-Air Force Civil Engineer Center
AFE—-Aircrew Flight Equipment
AFI—-Air Force Instruction
AFJI—-Air Force Joint Instruction
AFOSI—-Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—-Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—-Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—-Air Force Records Information Management System
AFTRANS—-Air Force Transportation (Component)
ALCF—-Airlift Control Flights
AMC—-Air Mobility Command
AMC/CC—-Commander, Air Mobility Command
AMCC—-Air Mobility Control Center
AMCF—-Air Mobility Control Flight
AMCI—-Air Mobility Instruction
AMCPAM—-Air Mobility Pamphlet
AMCSUP—-Air Mobility Command Supplement
AMD—-Air Mobility Division
AMLO—-Air Mobility Liaison Officer
AMOCC—-Air Mobility Operations Control Center
AMOG—-Air Mobility Operations Group
AMOS—-Air Mobility Operations Squadron
AMS—-Air Mobility Squadron
AMT—-Air Mobility Tasking
AMW—-Air Mobility Wing
AMWC—-Air Mobility Warfare Center
ANG—-Air National Guard
AOC—-Air and Space Operations Center
AOR—-Area of Responsibility
APF—-Aerial Port Flights
APS—-Aerial Port Squadrons
ARC—-Air Reserve Component
 30                                                         AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


ARW—-Air Refueling Wing
AS—-Allowance Standard
AT/FP—-Antiterrorism/Force Protection
ATO—-Air Tasking Officer
AW—-Airlift Wing
BEEF—-Base Engineer Emergency Force
BOS—-Base Operating Support
C2—-Command & Control
C4—-Command, Control, Communications and Computers
CA—-Combat Arms
CAAP—-Commanders Apportionment and Allocation Plan
CAIB—-Community Action Information Board
CBRNDT—-Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Defense Training
CBRNE—-Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High Yield Explosives
CCATT—-Critical Care Air Transport Team
CCDR—- Combatant Commander
CED—-Contingency, Exercise, Deployment
CHOP—-Change in Operational Control
CJCS—-Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
C-MAJCOM—-Air Component Major Command
C-NAF—-Component Numbered Air Force
CONOPS—-Concept of Operations
CONUS—-Continental United States
CRAF—-Civil Reserve Air Fleet
CRE—-Contingency Response Element
CRG—-Contingency Response Group
CRT—-Contingency Response Team
CRW—-Contingency Response Wing
CSA—-Client Support Administration
CSE—-Contingency Support Element
CSS—-Commander Support Staff
CWDE—-Chemical Warfare Defense Equipment
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                        31


DCAPES—-Deliberate Crisis Action Planning Execution Segments
DEPORD—-Deployment Order
DOC—-Designed Operational Capability
DoD—-Department of Defense
DODI—-Department of Defense Instruction
EE—-Emergency Essential
EIM—-Enterprise Information Management
EOD—-Explosive Ordnance Disposal
FAM—-Functional Area Manager
FAP—-Family Advocacy Program
FCP—-Foreign Clearance Program
FN—-Flight Nurse
FSS—-Force Support Squadron
GAMSS—-Global Air Mobility Support System
GPMRC—-Global Patient Movement Requirements Center
HF—-High Frequency
HRC—-High Risk of Capture
IDO—-Installation Deployment Officer
IDS—-Integrated Delivery Systems
IPE—-Individual Protection Equipment
ITUD—-Integral Tanker Unit Deployment
JPMRC—-Joint Patient Movement Requirements Center
JFS—-Joint Force Surgeon
JTF—-Joint Task Force
L-MAJCOM—-Lead Major Command
LOGDETS—-Logistics Detail
MAF—-Mobility Air Forces
MAJCOM—-Major Command
MEFPAK—-Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging System
MISCAP—-Mission Capability
MPA—-Military Personnel Appropriations
MRSP—-Mobility Readiness Spares Package
 32                                                         AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


MRT—-Maintenance Response Team
MST—-Mobile Support Team
NIPRNET—-Non-secure Internet Protocol Router Network
NMCC—-National Military Command Center
OCONUS—-Outside the CONUS
OPCON—-Operational Control
OPLAN—-Operations Plan
OPORD—-Operations Order
OWS—-Operational Weather Squadron
PA—-Public Affairs
PAS—-Personnel Accounting Symbol
PERSCO—-Personnel Support for Contingency Operations
PMCC—-Patient Movement Clinical Coordinators
PMRC—-Patient Movement Requirements Center
POL—-Petroleum, Oil, and Lubricants
PPC—-Personnel Processing Codes
PR—-Personnel Recovery
P&S—-Prioritization and Sequencing
RIBS—-Readiness in Base Services
SATCOM—-Satellite Communications
SECAF—-Secretary of the Air Force
SECDEF—-Secretary of Defense
SERE—-Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape
SIPRNET—-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
SSB—-Single Side Band
TACC—-618 Air and Space Operations Center (AOC) Tanker Airlift Control Center
TACP—-Tactical Air Control Party
TDC—-Theater Deployable Communications
TDY—-Temporary Duty
TPMRC—-Theater Patient Movement Regulating Center
TTF—-Tanker Task Force
UIC—-Unit Identification Codes
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                 33


UHF—-Ultra High Frequency
UMIS—-UTC Management Information System (ANG)
USAF—-United States Air Force
USAFE—-United States Air Forces Europe
USAF EC—-United States Air Force Expeditionary Center
USEUCOM—-United States European Command
USPACOM—-United States Pacific Air Forces
USTRANSCOM—-US Transportation Command
UTA—-Unit Type Code (UTC) Availability
UTC—-Unit Type Code
UTS—-Unit Training Standard
VFS—-Validating Flight Surgeon
VHF—-Very High Frequency
WRM—-War Reserve Materiel
 34                                                               AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


                                        Attachment 2
      ANNEX A, AMC DEPLOYMENT/REDEPLOYMENT/POST DEPLOYMENT
      REINTEGRATION PROCESS AMPLIFYING GUIDANCE TO AMCI 10-403

A2.1. Community Action Information Board (CAIB) and Integrated Delivery Systems
(IDS) Team.
   A2.1.1. The consequences of deployments and other long term temporary duties (TDYs) are
   an Air Force community responsibility. The AMC Community Action Information Board
   (CAIB) and Integrated Delivery Systems (IDS) Team are responsible for recommending
   solutions to address resulting personnel issues. The goal of this annex is to ensure that AMC
   commanders address the needs of AMC personnel who are at high risk to experience
   interpersonal challenges as a result of a high operations tempo either from a single long term
   deployment or from cumulative short periods of TDY.
A2.2. High risk situations.
   A2.2.1. An essential component of post deployment reintegration is the early identification
   of individuals that may be at higher-risk for readjustment problems. This group includes
   individuals who have been exposed to unusual levels of threat, experienced and witnessed
   traumatic loss of life and other disturbing events, have been injured, or who are dealing with
   predeployment or newly developed family problems.
   A2.2.2. A significant numbers of AMC’s aircrews and support personnel accumulate
   particularly high numbers of days TDY that are not accounted for under the normal
   deployment processes. The cumulative effects of these numerous days TDY exert many of
   the same types of stress on personal well-being and interpersonal relationships as does a
   single long term deployment.
A2.3. Post Deployment Reintegration.
   A2.3.1. Healthy readjustment to home station is important for all members, and we must
   ensure that readjustment issues are addressed for AMC members, including married and
   single members. Reintegration is a “process” not an “event.” The process takes into account
   the need to balance the member’s desire to take time off with family and AMC’s need to
   ensure every Airman has the tools to adapt to a changed environment in the quickest and
   safest way possible.
   A2.3.2. The deployment/redeployment/post deployment reintegration process also has
   applicability to members who accumulate significant numbers of days TDY over an extended
   period of time. AMC’s goal is to successfully maintain Airmen integration with families,
   friends, community, and work centers during extended or numerous periods of TDY.
   A2.3.3. The post deployment reintegration process begins on an individual’s return to home
   station. Post deployment reintegration is comprised of a decompression and reintegration
   phased events, as well as follow-up contact. The follow-up contact should occur after the
   post deployment downtime is completed (i.e. compensatory time off, leave, 4-day special
   pass, etc.).
   A2.3.4. Successful redeployment and reintegration does not end when an Airmen arrives
   home, it begins! Successful reintegration combines recognition and identification of
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                          35


   stressors with proper intervention and assistance to enable the returnees to eliminate the
   stressors, or to compensate and adjust to their unique situations.
A2.4. Unit level responsibilities in the reintegration process.
   A2.4.1. Squadron commanders are responsible for establishing a method and tracking the
   total number of days TDY for their members. AMC’s assigned units, including theatre
   assigned units, will use a graduated approach to ensure our Airmen successfully reintegrate
   with family members, friends, and co-workers within their community.
   A2.4.2. Critical points for commander’s intervention are set at 120 days, 165 days and 200
   days of TDY per a 365 day period. (Note: This is cumulative days and not necessarily
   consecutive days per the 365 day period.) The number of days TDY total returns to zero and
   the 365 days period begins again after an individual exceeds 200 total days TDY. Upon
   implementation of this publication, the start date for the initial 365 days period will be set at
   90 days prior to the effective date of this publication. This will ensure that individuals that
   are already at risk due to a high TDY rate will be captured by the first 120 day milestone.
       A2.4.2.1. The squadron commander, or representative thereof, will conduct a face-to-
       face support and reintegration assessment with individuals as they accumulate 120 days
       total TDY per 365 days. The squadron commander will keep an informal record of the
       accomplishment of this event. If appropriate, the commander will note on record that the
       individual neither declares nor appears to have any issues that require an individual
       referral to a base support agency. If appropriate the commander will suggest, and if
       necessary, refer an individual to a base support agency for an additional assessment.
       Note: If the squadron commander’s assessment is delegated to a squadron commander’s
       representative, the representative must be an individual in the position of an Assistant
       Director of Operations or higher and must be at least in the grade of Major or higher.
       This delegation must be made in writing for a stated period of time.
       A2.4.2.2. The Integrated Delivery Systems Team will provide post deployment support
       and reintegration training to members as they accumulate 165 days total TDY. The
       squadron will need to contact and coordinate with the IDS Team to schedule this training.
       The member will complete a post deployment assessment with the squadron commander
       or representative when they reach the 165 days TDY per 365 day milestone.
       A2.4.2.3. The Integrated Delivery Systems Team will provide redeployment support and
       reintegration training to members as they accumulate 200 days total TDY. The squadron
       will need to contact and coordinate with the IDS Team to schedule this training. The
       member will complete an additional post deployment assessment with the squadron
       commander when they reach the 200 days TDY per 365 days milestone.
   A2.4.3. Successful execution of this plan is the responsibility of leadership. However, we
   must also recognize that the health of our force is every Wingman’s responsibility. Keep in
   mind, although not every Airman has operated under hostile conditions, time away from
   home station support systems can be disruptive to typical good adjustment and health.
   Program elements may be adjusted to meet a Wing, Group, or Squadron’s culture.
 36                                                               AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


A2.5. Summary and Synopsis of the AMC Reintegration Program.
   A2.5.1. The Air Force pre-deployment, deployment, redeployment, post deployment and
   reintegration processes are in place to support our Airmen and to maintain the war fighting
   skills for expeditionary combat operations while nurturing Airmen and their families during
   periods of extraordinary stress. Effective management of this critical program requires high
   visibility. Leaders must display flexibility and common sense in order to meet the needs of
   their installation and unit unique culture. The ultimate success in carrying out the intent of
   this guidance lies with every Airman, family member, and unit leadership.
   A2.5.2. Every commander should ensure that the personnel assigned to their unit are familiar
   with Annex A, AMC Deployment/Redeployment/Post Deployment Reintegration Process,
   Annex B, AMC Reintegration Program and, as applicable, Annex B, Attachment 1, AMC
   ‘Reintegration’ Program.
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                    37


                                       Attachment 3
                    ANNEX B, AMC REINTEGRATION PROGRAM

A3.1. AMC Commander-directed program: The AMC Commander-directed the Community
Action Information Board (CAIB) and Integrated Delivery Systems (IDS) Team in developing
this program. The program consists of a five phased approach to assist airmen in resolving
personnel issues that are the results of long term deployments and warfare. Commanders will
ensure that every airman assigned to their unit is familiar with this program. Commanders can
use this annex to assist them, the CAIB and the IDS in making the AMC Reintegration process a
success.
   A3.1.1. AMC’s goal is to successfully reintegrate Airmen with families, friends, community,
   and work centers following a long term deployment (30+ days). The deployment/
   redeployment/post deployment reintegration process covers approximately 30 days prior to
   member’s departure and 30 days prior to the redeployment homecoming, and continues well
   into the post deployment period.
   A3.1.2. The post deployment reintegration process should begin within 7 days of an
   individual’s return to home station. Post deployment reintegration is comprised of
   decompression and reintegration phased events, as well as follow-up contact. The follow-up
   contact should occur after the post deployment downtime is completed (i.e. compensatory
   time off, leave, 4-day pass, etc.; See AMCI 10-403, paragraph 7.2.).
A3.2. The Five-Phase Approach consists of the following phases:
Phase I – Pre-deployment Training and Education (paragraph A3.2.1.)
Phase II – Deployment (paragraph A3.2.2.)
Phase III – Redeployment Screening-In-Theater (paragraph A3.2.3.)
Phase IV – Post deployment and Reintegration-Home Station (paragraph A3.2.4.)
Phase V – Evaluation (paragraph A3.2.5.)

   A3.2.1. Phase I – Pre-deployment Training and Education.
       A3.2.1.1. Forum: Phase I prepares Airmen and their families for deployment.
       A3.2.1.2. OPR: Airman and Family Readiness Flight (A&FRF).
          A3.2.1.2.1. Consults with leadership and sets up pre-deployment briefing schedules
          (minimum 30-days prior).
          A3.2.1.2.2. Contacts required and recommended OCRs.
          A3.2.1.2.3. Consults with leadership to ensure Airmen are notified of mandatory
          briefing Unit Deployment Managers (UDM).
          A3.2.1.2.4. Encourages family participation.
          A3.2.1.2.5. Ensures Phoenix Spouses are trained and ready to perform peer-to-peer
          duties.
38                                                              AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


     A3.2.1.3. Required OCR: Life Skills Support Center, Chaplain Corps, Legal, Family
     Support Center, Finance, Red Cross, Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC).
        A3.2.1.3.1. Prepares pre-deployment group/individual presentation.
        A3.2.1.3.2. Coordinates on pre-deployment training and education schedules with
        OPR,
        A3.2.1.3.3. Ensures representation at each scheduled group briefing.
        A3.2.1.3.4. Ensures Airmen are provided a pre-deployment checklist available
        through A&FRF.
     A3.2.1.4. Recommended Additional OCR: TRICARE, Family Member Support Flight,
     and Housing.
        A3.2.1.4.1. Prepares pre-deployment group/individual presentation.
        A3.2.1.4.2. Coordinates on pre-deployment training and education schedules with
        OPR.
        A3.2.1.4.3. Ensures representation at each scheduled group briefing.
     A3.2.1.5. Required   OCR (Individual        Deployer):       Completes pre-deployment
     requirements.
     A3.2.1.6. Structure: Group Deployers, Individual Deployer.
  A3.2.2. Phase II – Deployment.
     A3.2.2.1. Forum: Airmen may deploy to overseas theater or CONUS locations. Phase
     II helps maintain stability of Airmen and their family members.
     A3.2.2.2. OPR: CAIB/IDS Membership.
        A3.2.2.2.1. Ensures adherence to policy guidance established by higher headquarters.
        A3.2.2.2.2. Provides supplemental guidance.
     A3.2.2.3. Required OCR: Installation Squadron Leadership.
        A3.2.2.3.1. Airmen receive in-theater support.
        A3.2.2.3.2. Contacts deployed leadership to maintain communication on welfare of
        deployed members.
        A3.2.2.3.3. Maintains routine contact with squadron Phoenix Spouse(s) and families
        of deployed personnel.
        A3.2.2.3.4. Refers to Airman’s Guide to Assisting Personnel in Distress located at
        http://www.afms.af.mil/airmansguide.
     A3.2.2.4. Recommended Additional OCR: Airman and Family Readiness Center,
     Chaplain Corps, Life Skills Support Center, Family Advocacy Program (FAP), Health
     and Wellness Center (HAWC), Family Member Support Flight.
        A3.2.2.4.1. Offers wide variety of services and activities that help sustain families of
        deployed personnel.
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                     39


        A3.2.2.4.2. Maintains routine contact with families of deployed personnel.
        A3.2.2.4.3. Maintains routine contact with other support networks on/off the
        installation.
     A3.2.2.5. Required OCR (Individual Deployer):          Support provided to Airmen in-
     theater and to families at home station.
     A3.2.2.6. Structure: Group Deployers, Individual Deployer.
  A3.2.3. Phase III – Redeployment Screening (In-Theater).
     A3.2.3.1. Forum: Phase III prepares Airmen for return and highlights significant issues
     of concern that may require special attention. Additionally, emphasis needs to be placed
     on families, friends, co-workers, duty stations, and the community as integral partners in
     the reintegration process.
     A3.2.3.2. OPR: Deployed Location Leadership, Home Station Leadership.
        A3.2.3.2.1. Deployed Location Leadership:
            A3.2.3.2.1.1. Informs home station leadership of significant events involving
            deployed member
            A3.2.3.2.1.2. Refers to Airman’s Guide to Assisting Personnel in Distress located
            at http://www.afms.af.mil/airmansguide.
            A3.2.3.2.1.3. Ensures DD Form 2796, Post-Deployment Health Assessment, is
            completed not earlier than 30 days prior to departure from deployed location
            (helps gain insights to deployed issues impacting member) or within 30 days of
            return to home station.
        A3.2.3.2.2. Home Station Leadership:
            A3.2.3.2.2.1. Refers to Airman’s Guide to Assisting Personnel in Distress located
            at http://www.afms.af.mil/airmansguide.
            A3.2.3.2.2.2. Contacts deployed location squadron leadership for updates.
            A3.2.3.2.2.3. Contacts families of deployed members and offers reintegration
            briefings to spouses and children.
     A3.2.3.3. Required OCR: Life Skills Support Center, Chaplain Corps, Legal, Airman
     and Family Readiness Flight, Finance, Red Cross, SARC.
        A3.2.3.3.1. Remains vigilant of commander-referral issues in AOR and home station.
        A3.2.3.3.2. Provides reintegration education in the AOR 30 days prior to
        redeployment (Life Skills Support Center and Chaplains).
        A3.2.3.3.3. Ensures desired resources are available in the AOR (Airman and Family
        Readiness Flight).
        A3.2.3.3.4. Partners with leadership and offers reintegration briefings to spouses and
        children,
        A3.2.3.3.5. Coordinates with leadership to develop “Wingman Reintegration
        Checklist” (Airman and Family Readiness Center). Sample checklist at Attachment 4.
40                                                              AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


     A3.2.3.4. Required OCR (Individual Deployer): Follows established redeployment
     screening process.
     A3.2.3.5. Structure: Group Deployers, Individual Deployer.
  A3.2.4. Phase IV – Post deployment and Reintegration Home Station.
     A3.2.4.1. Forum: Phase IV welcomes and reintegrates Airmen back to the home station
     mission.
     A3.2.4.2. OPR: Home Station Leadership.
        A3.2.4.2.1. Meets returning Airmen at airport or returning airlift.
        A3.2.4.2.2. Appoints a “Reintegration Wingman” where appropriate, to meet each
        returnee and assist him/her with reintegration activities/scheduling (See Wingman
        Checklist, Attachment 4 to this publication).
        A3.2.4.2.3. A reintegration Wingman is not mandatory for Airmen returning as part
        of a large group.
        A3.2.4.2.4. Establishes contact with each returning Airmen during leadership
        interviews which allows opportunity for “Eyes-On” within 7 days of members’ return
        from AOR, and follow up thereafter in 30 and 60 days or until no longer required.
        A3.2.4.2.5. Request feedback from Airmen on lessons learned from AOR.
        A3.2.4.2.6. Provides cross-talk to CONUS agencies (higher headquarters, etc.).
        A3.2.4.2.7. Reviews policies and procedures, programs, training requirements and
        ensures members are scheduled.
        A3.2.4.2.8. Coordinates with Airman and Family Readiness Center to schedule base
        agencies to come into the squadron (or designated area) to conduct mandatory
        briefing/processing.
        A3.2.4.2.9. Refers to Airman’s Guide to Assisting Personnel in Distress located at
        http://www.afms.af.mil/airmansguide/.
     A3.2.4.3. Required OCR (Group): Life Skills Support Center, Chaplain Corps, Legal,
     Airman and Family Readiness Center, Finance, Military Personnel Flight (MPF), Public
     Health.
        A3.2.4.3.1. Representation at group briefings.
        A3.2.4.3.2. Finance - Travel voucher, LES, etc.
        A3.2.4.3.3. MSS/MPF.
        A3.2.4.3.4. Chaplains – provides briefing and confidential counseling for Airmen or
        couples.
        A3.2.4.3.5. Life Skills Support Center – provides briefings and individual
        assessments as required; coordinates traumatic stress debriefings.
        A3.2.4.3.6. Public Health – Ensures Post-Deployment Health Assessment and Post-
        Deployment Health Reassessment are completed.
AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014                                                                     41


        A3.2.4.3.7. Airman and Family Readiness Center – consults with leadership and
        coordinates group briefings and provides Airman and Family Readiness Center
        briefing.
     A3.2.4.4. Recommended Additional OCR:           SARC, FAP, HAWC, Family Member
     Support Flight.
        A3.2.4.4.1. Offers wide variety of services and activities that help during
        reintegration and reunion of deployed members/families.
        A3.2.4.4.2. Provides crisis management and referral resources.
     A3.2.4.5. Required    OCR      (Individual     Deployer):     Completes     redeployment
     requirements.
     A3.2.4.6. Structure: Group Deployers, Individual Deployer.
  A3.2.5. Phase V – Evaluation.
     A3.2.5.1. Forum: Phase V assists wing leaders with program evaluation.
     A3.2.5.2. OPR: Wing Commander/CAIB Leadership.
        A3.2.5.2.1. Ensures data tracking is in place for reporting to installation CAIB.
        A3.2.5.2.2. Provides cross talk to higher headquarters on issues that cannot be
        resolved on a local level and on installation’s best practices.
     A3.2.5.3. Required OCR: IDS Team Membership, UDMs, and others as required for
     data collection and reporting.
        A3.2.5.3.1. UDM notifies member to complete DD FM 2900, Post Deployment
        Health Reassessment (PDHRA), at 90-180 days after return from a deployment.
        A3.2.5.3.2. IDS develops system of reporting on deployments, redeployments, and
        post deployment and reintegration processes.
        A3.2.5.3.3. IDS analyzes, tracks, and develops strategies to resolve issues and
        chronicles best practices to share with leadership.
        A3.2.5.3.4. Provides post-deployment report to CAIB membership at least quarterly
        (Airman and Family Readiness Center).
     A3.2.5.4. Recommended Additional OCR: As determined by CAIB/IDS membership.
     A3.2.5.5. Required OCR (Individual Deployer): Completes DD FM 2900, PDHRA, at
     90-180 days after return from a deployment.
     A3.2.5.6. Structure: Group Deployers, Individual Deployer.
 42                                                                  AMCI10-403 24 JULY 2014


                                            Attachment 4
ANNEX B, ATTACHMENT 1, SAMPLE REINTEGRATION WINGMAN CHECKLIST

Returning Airman Information:
Wingman Name/Rank: ____________________ Date Assigned: _______________
Duty Phone: ________________Home Phone: ____________ Cell Phone________
Family Contact: _______________________________________________________
Assigned Airman Information:____________________________________________
Squadron POC: ___________________________Duty Phone: _________________
Expected Date of Return: _______________________________________________
“Congratulations on your selection as “Reintegration Wingman!” Your selection represents your
leadership’s confidence in you to perform this important task. You are charged with distinct responsibilities
to welcome the assigned Airmen and note any issues of concern that may require special attention. Your
primary duties are to meet and greet the Airmen at the airport and assist him/her with coordinating and
meeting scheduled appointments. Due to potential changes in timetables, you are expected to maintain
contact with the Commander Support Staff (CSS) and Unit Deployment Manager (UDM) on return dates and
times. Within 3 days after the member is released for downtime, please complete this form and return it to
the CSS for leadership’s review. Thank you!”


1. Met deployed personnel at the airport.                                          Yes______     No______
(If your answer is no, please explain.)
2. Provided transportation as needed for returning Airman.                         Yes______     No______
(If your answer is no, please explain.)
3. Coordinated reintegration appointments (please obtain list from squadron        Yes______     No______
point of contact and attach to this form).
(If your answer is no, please explain.)
4. Notified returning member of appointment times and locations.                   Yes______     No______
-- When necessary, accompanied member to appointments.                             Yes______     No______
(If your answer is no, please explain.)
5. Created a welcoming environment by providing information, resources and         Yes______     No______
services based on member’s needs. Provide details:
6. Reported any unusual circumstances or readjustment               Yes______      No______      N/A___
difficulties. (Heavy drinking, risk-taking behaviors, depressed
mood, etc.)
Who did you report this information to?
