BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                   AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                             INSTRUCTION 52-101
                                                                                      13 OCTOBER 2005

                                                                                                  Chaplain

                                                                          COMMAND-WIDE POLICIES



                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:          This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
                 http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AMC/HCC (CMSgt Russell L. Geyer)                                     Certified by: HQ AMC/HCX
                                                                             (Ch, Lt Col Robert C. Stroud)
                                                                                                Pages: 11
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 52-1, Chaplain Service, AFI 52-101, Planning and Organizing, AFI
52-102, Professional Development, AFI 52-104, Chaplain Service Readiness, AFI 52-105, Vol I, Chap-
lain Service Resourcing, Appropriated Funds, AFI 52-105, Vol II, Chaplain Service Chapel Tithes and
Offerings Fund, and establishes AMC policies, procedures, and guidelines for Chaplain Service pro-
grams. This publication applies to all AMC Chaplain Service functions. These policies serve as HQ
AMC/HC supplemental procedures to be followed in conjunction with HQ USAF/HC 52-series publica-
tions. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard or US Air Force Reserve units.


1. Facilities.
   1.1. Base-to-Command (B2C) Facilities Briefing. These briefings are scheduled, coordinated, and
   managed by HQ AMC/A7 and are an avenue for HQ AMC/HC to advocate for chapel facility mainte-
   nance and renovation projects listed on the respective base priority list. Once a base is scheduled for a
   B2C briefing, the Wing Chaplain will be notified by HQ AMC/HCP and requested to provide the fol-
   lowing information:
       1.1.1. Facility projects listed in the base plan and the priority number.
       1.1.2. Background information on any projects on the priority list.
   1.2. Weapons in the chapel.
       1.2.1. The only weapons allowed in the chapel sanctuary, chancel, or nave will be ceremonial
       swords. The only exemption is for Security Forces personnel responding to a bona fide emer-
       gency.
2                                                                   AMCI52-101 13 OCTOBER 2005


2. Photographs.
    2.1. Provide HQ AMC/HCX with an 5 x 7” official photo (head and shoulders) of the Wing/Staff
    Chaplain and NCOIC within 30 days after they in-process. Updated photographs will be provided
    within 30 days of a promotion or receipt of an award or decoration resulting in a change in ribbons.
    2.2. Provide HQ AMC/HCX with a 8 x 10” official photo (head and shoulders) of individual and
    chapel staff annual HQ AMC Chaplain Service Award winners within 30 days after selections are
    announced.

3. Reporting Death or Illness of Chaplain Service Personnel.
    3.1. When personnel assigned to your staff or members of their immediate family die or are hospital-
    ized, notify HQ AMC/HC using the template located on the HQ AMC/HC Web Page https://
    www.amc.af.mil/hc/resources.htm. Send information to mailto:amc.hce@scott.af.mil or fax (618)
    229-0245 with 24 hours.
    3.2. Include assigned Air Reserve Component staff members. Utilize templates located at: https://
    www.amc.af.mil/hc/resources.htm for all inputs.

4. Annual AF Form 1270A. This form is due to mailto:amc.hcx@scott.af.mil annually by 5 January
and must be either sent from the Wing Chaplain’s e-mail account or show the Wing Chaplain as courtesy
copied on the e-mail.

5. HQ AMC/HC Staff Visits. HQ AMC/HC provides management headquarters functional oversight
and evaluation of USAF Chaplain Service ministries at AMC bases. These requirements are met through
Command Chaplain Pastoral Support Visits (PSV), staff assistance visits (SAV) when requested, Unit
Compliance Inspections (UCI), and Wing Operational Readiness Inspections (WORI). (Attachment 2)

6. Attached Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA) Program.
    6.1. Wing/Staff Chaplains are responsible for ensuring the Chaplain Service IMAs attached to their
    unit are fully integrated into the chapel staff and fulfill all IMA program requirements. (Attachment
    3)
    6.2. IMAs should be given consideration for awards and decorations a minimum of every 3 years, just
    as active duty are considered at the 3 year time-on-station point or when selected for PCS or retire-
    ment/separation.

7. Continuity of Operations.
    7.1. Maintain a Chaplain Function Continuity File that contains, as a minimum, the following infor-
    mation:
       7.1.1. Mission of the installation and local Chaplain Service function.
       7.1.2. Local Chaplain Service organizational structure.
       7.1.3. Current Unit Manning Document .
       7.1.4. Unit Personnel Management Roster.
       7.1.5. Position descriptions for assigned personnel (active duty and Reserve).
AMCI52-101 13 OCTOBER 2005                                                                              3


      7.1.6. Local Chaplain Service strategic planning information to include needs assessments,
      resource application priorities, and performance measurement indicators.
      7.1.7. List of recurring reports and suspense dates (wing and HQ AMC/HC).
      7.1.8. Status of funds, facilities, and equipment.
      7.1.9. Copy of most recent UCI and WORI reports and any memoranda for record from each
      inspection.
   7.2. To ensure an accurate accounting of assigned/attached personnel and to facilitate a rapid response
   to short-notice deployment taskings, the Wing/Staff Chaplain is responsible for reporting the follow-
   ing personnel management circumstances to HQ AMC/HC as they occur:
      7.2.1. In the event the Wing/Staff Chaplain and/or NCOIC are out of the office more than 14 days
      (Leave/TDY/deployment), notify HQ AMC/HC with the name of the individual who will serve in
      the interim leadership position during the absence.
      7.2.2. Notify HQ AMC/HCP when IMAs are attached to or removed from the base chapel staff.
      Report this information within 15 days of personnel action notification.
      7.2.3. A job description will be developed for each active duty and IMA member of the chapel
      staff. Local formats may be used; however, a suggested template is available at https://
      www.amc.af.mil/hc/resources.htm for your use.

8. Chapel Tithes and Offerings Fund (CTOF) Management and Administration:
   8.1. HQ AMC/HCX must coordinate on your CTOF operating instruction. Forward your operating
   instruction to mailto:amc.hcx@scott.af.mil before implementing. File the instruction and HQ AMC/
   HCX coordination documentation in the CTOF Continuity File.
   8.2. Reporting. Wing Chaplains send statement of Assurance and EOM detailed balance sheet to HQ
   AMC/HCX no later than 15 November.
   8.3. Contracts. All CTOF contracts and service agreements will be reviewed by the local legal office
   prior to finalization and implementation.
   8.4. Maintain a CTOF Continuity File that contains, as a minimum, the following information:
      8.4.1. Copy of your MAJCOM-coordinated CTOF operation instruction.
      8.4.2. Copies of all CTOF guidance from HHQ.
      8.4.3. Copy of most recent annual balance sheet.
      8.4.4. Appointment letters for Account Managers, Accounting Technician, and their alternates.
      8.4.5. Authorization documents for check signatories (normally copies of bank signature cards)
      and any other account access information.
      8.4.6. Copies of all active contracts or service agreements to include statements of work/position
      descriptions, advertisements, bids, interview questions, interview point results, and legal reviews
      as applicable.
4                                                                       AMCI52-101 13 OCTOBER 2005


       8.4.7. Tax information – federal identification number, state and local tax information and copies
       of most recent Tax Department Forms 1096, Annual Summary and Transmittal of U.S. Informa-
       tion Returns and 1099-MISC, Miscellaneous Income.
       8.4.8. Warranty information on all fund-owned property.
       8.4.9. A list of current fixed assets and most recent property change report with supporting docu-
       mentation (i.e., reports of survey, investigation reports, claims/disposition documents).
       8.4.10. Security Forces safe storage limitation authorization letter.
       8.4.11. Most recent audit and AMC inspection reports or cross-reference sheets.
       8.4.12. Process and approval documentation for direct mission items and services procured with
       the CTOF.
    8.5. Provide HQ AMC/HCX with a courtesy copy of any HQ USAF/HC-directed designated offering
    transmittal letters within 2 weeks after collection.

9. Appropriated Funds Management.
    9.1. Provide HQ AMC/HCX with your appropriated funds budget totals, by EEIC, not later than 1
    week after receipt of budget distribution.
    9.2. All appropriated fund contracts and service agreements will be reviewed by the base legal, man-
    power, and contracting offices prior to finalization and implementation.

10. Counseling Trends.
    10.1. Provide HQ AMC/HCX with a CY quarterly report on counseling trends experienced using the
    template located at https://www.amc.af.mil/hc/resources.htm.
    10.2. Reports are to arrive not later than the 10th of April, July, October, and January.

11. Readiness Preparation/Training.
    11.1. The Wing/Staff Chaplain will appoint, in writing, a Readiness Officer and NCO from within the
    chapel staff. Indicate in the letter that these individuals are to fulfill the responsibilities of Readiness
    FAM as required in AFI 52-104. Send a copy of the appointment letter to HQ AMC/HCPR.
    11.2. The Readiness Officer/NCO are responsible for ensuring all active duty and attached IMA
    Chaplain Service personnel are trained and fully equipped to deploy. (Attachment 4)
    11.3. Forward your chapel contingency support operating instruction (OI) for coordination to HQ
    AMC/HCPR. Coordination will take place no later than six months prior to a projected WORI.
    11.4. For newly assigned chaplain service personnel, notify HQ AMC/HCPR of the AEF cycle the
    individual is designated against within 15 days of arrival
    11.5. When personnel are placed on physical profile, fax a copy of the profile to HQ AMC/HCPR at
    (618) 229-0245 or DSN 779-0245 within 36 hours. Contact HQ AMC/HCPR within 36 hours after
    removal from profile.
    11.6. Notify HQ AMC/HCPR if you receive a deployment tasking from outside the Chaplain Service
    chain, e.g., TCN escort duty.
AMCI52-101 13 OCTOBER 2005                                                                              5


12. Privacy Act Information.
   12.1. Signed consent forms will be obtained and maintained for instances where Privacy Act informa-
   tion is collected from individuals with the intent to publish in chapel communications, i.e., worship
   service bulletins, group membership listings, volunteer rosters, etc.
      12.1.1. Maintain consent forms for 1 year from the date signed. If information is still required and
      being publicized at the end of 1 year, a new form will be signed and maintained.
   12.2. Privacy Act Statement. Privacy Act Statements will be printed on all documents where Privacy
   Act information is being requested and maintained within the chapel function and not given to third
   parties, i.e., religious education enrollment cards, lay volunteer forms, program registration forms,
   etc.
      12.2.1. Privacy Act Statements will include the following:
          12.2.1.1. Legal authority for collecting the information, statute or Executive Order.
          12.2.1.2. Purpose for collecting the information.
          12.2.1.3. What the information will be used for.
          12.2.1.4. Whether the disclosure of the information is mandatory or voluntary. NOTE: Col-
          lection of information is mandatory only when a federal statute, Executive Order, regulation,
          or other lawful order specifically imposes a duty on the person to provide the information and
          the individual is subject to a penalty if he or she fails to do so.
          12.2.1.5. Include, in non-threatening language, any consequences that may result from non-
          disclosure.

13. IMT Adopted. AF IMT 1270A, Chaplain Service Statistical Report.



                                              ROBERT BRUNO, Chaplain, Colonel, USAF
                                              Command Chaplain
6                                                              AMCI52-101 13 OCTOBER 2005


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 5100.73, Major Department of Defense Headquarters Activities
Air Force Instruction 33-332, Privacy Act Program

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AMC—Air Mobility Command
CS—Chaplain Service
CTOF—Chapel Tithes and Offerings Fund
CY—Calendar Year
EEIC—Element of Expense/Investment Code
FAM—Functional Area Manager
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
MAJCOM—Major Command
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PSV—Pastoral Support Visit
TCN—Third-Country Nationals
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspection
vMPF—Virtual Military Personnel Flight
WORI—Wing Operational Readiness Inspection
AMCI52-101 13 OCTOBER 2005                                                                            7


                                            Attachment 2

COMMAND CHAPLAIN AND COMMAND CHAPLAIN ASSISTANT VISIT REQUIREMENTS

A2.1. The visit will be coordinated with the Command Chaplain Assistant and should occur when all
active duty personnel can be present; no one should be TDY, PTDY, CTO or on leave once the dates have
been firmed up. Official TDY to meet USAF training or mission requirements is authorized.

A2.2. Prepare an itinerary of events and send a copy to HQ AMC/HCE to arrive NLT 10 days prior to the
team’s arrival. Coordinate any changes directly with the Command Chaplain Assistant. Include the fol-
lowing in the itinerary:
   A2.2.1. Courtesy visit with the Wing Commander for the Command Chaplain.
   A2.2.2. Courtesy visit with the Wing Command Chief for the Command Chaplain Assistant.
   A2.2.3. Thirty-minute interviews with each chaplain for the Command Chaplain.
   A2.2.4. Thirty-minute interviews with each enlisted member assigned to the chapel section for the
   Command Chaplain Assistant.
   A2.2.5. Thirty-minute interviews with anyone so desiring to have time with the Command Chaplain
   or Command Chaplain Assistant.
   A2.2.6. Base windshield tour.
   A2.2.7. Tour of all chapel facilities.
   A2.2.8. Presentation of the Wing mission briefing.
   A2.2.9. Presentation of the chapel program briefing. This should be scheduled when all chapel staff
   members are available and will be present for the entire briefing.
   A2.2.10. Forty-five-minute allotment of time immediately after the chapel program briefing for the
   Command Chaplain to brief the chapel staff.
   A2.2.11. A social with staff members and spouses. If possible, avoid scheduling this on the evening
   of the team’s arrival. A potluck is suggested and encouraged to alleviate any financial burden on the
   younger members of the chapel team and those with children.
   A2.2.12. Visit with Air National Guard and Category A Reserve unit Chaplain Service personnel as
   applicable.
   A2.2.13. Where applicable, schedule an office call for the Command Chaplain with Group and
   Squadron Commanders of any unit where a chaplain is physically located, along with a parallel office
   call for the Command Chaplain Assistants with the First Sergeant or Superintendents of those units.
   A2.2.14. Schedule thirty minutes at the end of the visit for an out brief with the Wing Chaplain and
   NCOIC.

A2.3. Your chapel briefing should affirm the chaplain staff and programs. Feel free to invite religious
education coordinators, attached IMAs and others who would enhance the process. Remember, your
briefing should be comprehensive and identify not only the basics, but also your successes and concerns.
At a minimum, the following areas should be addressed:
8                                                                   AMCI52-101 13 OCTOBER 2005


    A2.3.1. Base demographics.
    A2.3.2. Chapel team/organizational structure.
    A2.3.3. Major faith group ministries.
    A2.3.4. Mentoring and/or staff development initiatives.
    A2.3.5. Chaplain unit visitation assignments and unique initiatives.
    A2.3.6. Status of facilities.
    A2.3.7. Appropriated and Chaplain Tithes and Offerings Fund status for current and previous fiscal
    year.
    A2.3.8. Success stories.
    A2.3.9. Challenges or concerns.
    A2.3.10. Optional highlights of your choice.

A2.4. Provide hardcopy information packets upon arrival that are comprehensive enough to acquaint the
team with the base, chapel programs and staff. Recommend including the following as a minimum:
    A2.4.1. Finalized itinerary.
    A2.4.2. Chapel briefing.
    A2.4.3. Biographies of those the Command Chaplain or Command Chaplain Assistant will have
    courtesy calls with.
    A2.4.4. Biographies of chapel staff members.
    A2.4.5. Program or schedule of events for any special functions the team will be attending and/or par-
    ticipating in.
AMCI52-101 13 OCTOBER 2005                                                                  9


                                           Attachment 3

          INDIVIDUAL MOBILIZATION AUGMENTEE (IMA) CHAPLAIN AND
                  CHAPLAIN ASSISTANT PROGRAM CHECKLIST


   No. ITEM                                                                         YES NO N/A
   1   Are all IMAs filling positions validated on the Unit Manpower Document?
   2   Do all IMAs have a current year training/participation plan developed and on
       file?
   3   Have all IMAs attended formal schools consistent with their rank and
       position?
   4   Have all IMAs completed a current Virtual Record of Emergency Data?
   5   Have all IMAs completed annual fitness testing?
   6     Have all IMAs completed the annual Reserve Component Periodic Health
         Assessment (RCPHA) including dental check-up, and has a copy been
         forwarded to HQ AFRC/HC
   7     Have all required Officer Performance Reports (yearly) or Enlisted
         Performance Reports (once every two years) been prepared for the IMAs?
   8     Is integration of IMAs included in the Chapel Contingency Support
         Operating Instruction?
   9     Do active duty supervisors have current addresses, phone numbers and email
         addresses for IMAs?
   10    Are current address, phone numbers and email addresses recorded in vMPF?
   11    Do all IMAs receive training during IDTs and Annual Training that is
         designed to ensure and maintain proficiency in the AFSC?
   12    Do all IMAs have appropriate/required security clearances?
   13    Do all IMA chaplain assistant below the rank of MSgt have an AF Form 623,
         On-the-Job Training Record?
   14    Are all enlisted IMAs enrolled in upgrade training, as necessary?
   15    Are all enlisted IMAs within the established timeframe for upgrade training,
         if applicable? If “no” what is the get-well plan?
   16    Are IMA position descriptions included in the Chapel Function Continuity
         File?
   17.   Are all IMA mobilization requests routed through HQ AMC/HCR and then
         to HQ AFRC/HCR for approval?
10                                                                 AMCI52-101 13 OCTOBER 2005


                                            Attachment 4

                   CHAPLAIN SERVICE TEAM READINESS CHECKLIST


     No. ITEM                                                                             YES NO N/A
     1    Do all personnel have the following items in their possession?
     1a   A current identification card (CAC)
     1b   Identification tags
     1c   DD Form 1934, Red Cross Geneva Convention Card (chaplains only)
     1d   PHS Form 731, International Certificate of Vaccinations with required
          immunizations
     1e   Copy of DD Form 357, Dependent/Child Care Responsibilities (if
          applicable)
     2    Are the following mobilization/deployment training requirements completed
          and documented by the Chapel Deployment Officer/NCO?
     2a   Small arms (enlisted only) AF Form 522
     2b   Explosive ordinance recognition (initial and annual refresher)
     2c   Self-aid and buddy care (bi-annually)
     2d   Law of armed conflict (annually)
     2e   Family readiness briefing
     2f   Force protection briefing
     2g   Wing/installation alarm signals
     2h   Disaster response procedures
     2i   Nuclear, biological, conventional defense training (annually)
     2j   Refresher suicide awareness and intervention skills (annually)
     3    Are the following mobilization/deployment training requirements performed
          and documented with the Wing/Installation Readiness FAM?
     3a   Critical Incident Stress Management
     3b   Chapel Contingency Support Operating Instruction
     3c   Religious Support Team training
     3d   Readiness planning documents
     3e   Driving manual transmission vehicles
     3f   Operations Security and Communications Security (annually)
     3g   Command, Control, Communications, and Computers (C4) procedures
     4    Do all personnel have a personal mobility bag with all required uniforms, gas
          mask inserts, 2 pair of glasses, hearing aid & batteries (if applicable)?
     5    Do all chaplains have the required Chaplain Kit for deployment?
AMCI52-101 13 OCTOBER 2005                                                                    11


   No. ITEM                                                                            YES NO N/A
   6   Have all personnel participated in Wing exercises or attended some form of
       formal readiness training or field ministry training to ensure familiarity with
       ministry in a deployed setting?
