BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                         AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                    INSTRUCTION 11-211

                                                                           21 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                               Flying Operations

                                                    DESTINATION AIRFIELD SUITABILITY
                                                                           ANALYSIS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AMC/A3AS                                                     Certified by: HQ AMC/A3A
                                                                       (Col Paul R. McLaughlin)
                                                                                       Pages: 17


Destination Airfield Suitability Analysis (DASA) is a key planning consideration ensuring the
effectiveness and safety of worldwide mobility mission operations. This instruction seeks to
standardize DASA procedures, codify long-standing Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF)
policy outlined in historical message directives, and implement Air Force Policy Directive
(AFPD) 10-21, Air Mobility Lead Command Roles and Responsibilities. Per Air Force Doctrine
Document (AFDD) 3-17, Air Mobility Operations, Air Mobility Command (AMC) on behalf of
United States Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM), maintains a continuously updated
global database of airfield information. AMC implements DASA procedures to build and
maintain its global airfield database.

This instruction supersedes Airfield Suitability and Restrictions Report (ASRR) guidance in
AMCI 11-208, Tanker Airlift Operations, and delineates DASA procedures, responsibilities and
standards for AMC and AMC-gained mission planning and execution at all organizational levels.
It applies to all AMC aircraft, planners and aircrew, including AMC-gained Air National Guard
(ANG) and United States Air Force Reserve (AFRC). The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by AMC, the United States Air Force (USAF) or the Department of Defense
(DoD). To resolve conflicts or recommend changes and suggestions use the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, and route it to HQ AMC/A3AS (Airfield Suitability
Branch). Ensure all records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
 2                                                           AMCI11-211 21 DECEMBER 2012


Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. Overview:
     1.1. General. AMC operates high-value aircraft in some of the most challenging flying
     environments and diverse airfields around the world. It is not unusual for AMC aircraft to be
     tasked to operate into airfields in developing or underdeveloped nations or regions where
     adherence to established airport maintenance, design, and construction criteria cannot be
     guaranteed. Even in developed nations, some older airfields may be ―grandfathered‖ under
     obsolete standards or have additional variations in place due to unique terrain, obstacles, or
     other environmental factors. Therefore, all airports and airfields have to be assessed or
     evaluated to ensure existing conditions and infrastructure can support operations. The
     consequences of inadequate or improper destination airport suitability assessment can
     adversely impact mission planning, execution, and potentially result in significant damage to
     aircraft and/or pavement.
     1.2. Source Document. This publication is an original source document for many areas but,
     for efficacy, it also amplifies information found in aircraft flight manuals, flight information
     publications (FLIP), and other Air Force directives. For matters where this Air Mobility
     Command Instruction (AMCI) is the source document, waiver authority is IAW Paragraph 5.
     For matters where this AMCI repeats information in another document, follow waiver
     authority outlined in the basic/source document.
     1.3. Purpose. AMC is the Air Force’s executive agent and lead command for mobility
     aircraft destination airport suitability analysis. DASA policies serve to optimize resource
     utilization, sustain appropriate operating practices, and foster action that reduces the danger
     of airfield hazards during mission planning and execution. These policies are intended to
     enable throughput capability, support warfighter requirements, enhance operating safety, and
     trim operating costs incurred during global operations. The terms airport and airfield are
     used interchangeably throughout this publication as a destination location with a paved, hard
     surface runway intended for aircraft operations. Requirements for semi-prepared (unpaved)
     runways are contained in Air Force Instruction (AF) 13-217, Drop Zone and Landing Zone
     Operations, applicable mission design series (MDS) flight manuals and AFI 11-2MDS
     Volume 3 Operations Procedures publications.
     1.4. Global Decision Support System Airfield Database. AMC actively formulates
     airfield suitability assessments for airports worldwide that serve as the standard for air
     mobility aircraft. AMC airfield suitability assessments, known colloquially as Giant Reports,
     are maintained in the Global Decision Support (GDSS) airfield database (AFD). Planners
     will review the ―Giant Report‖ airfield assessment in the GDSS AFD when doing feasibility
     study and/or mission planning. NOTE: The terms ―airfield database‖ and ―AFD‖ have been
     replaced in GDSS by the Location Management Application (LM App). However, ―GDSS‖,
     ―airfield database‖ and/or ―AFD‖ are used in current operational guidance (ASRR, AFI 11-
     2MDSV3s, etc.) and will be used throughout this publication in lieu of LM App, as well as to
     refer to the airfield database information contained under the GDSS LM App Airfield
     Summary link.
AMCI11-211 21 DECEMBER 2012                                                                   3


      1.4.1. The GDSS AFD Giant Report is an assessment which provides a planning
      foundation for safe operations at an airfield, but does not replace the need for detailed
      mission planning or pre-flight planning. Additionally, plans for sustained, robust
      operations at a potential operating location will frequently require an airfield survey or
      expeditionary site survey plan to be completed in order to determine installation and bed-
      down capabilities.
      1.4.2. To establish a GDSS account, contact your GDSS Unit Program Account Manager
      (UPAM) or contact the GDSS Functional Help Desk via e-mail at:
      gdss.fhd.all@us.af.mil. If you have any problems or questions, please contact the GDSS
      Help Desk at DSN 312-576-4949 or commercial 618-256-4949; be sure to listen for and
      select the appropriate options to ensure you access assistance for GDSS. Any DoD
      customer is able to establish a GDSS account for access to ASRR and AFD.
   1.5. Airfield Suitability and Restrictions Report. Continual advances in aviation
   technology and procedures in turn drive a need to periodically update and revise airfield
   assessment processes and guidance. Accordingly AMC outlines current and detailed
   destination airport suitability assessment policies and procedures in the ASRR. The ASRR
   establishes suitability and restrictions for AMC and AMC-gained aircraft operations and is an
   approved pre-mission planning tool prescribed for use by numerous instructions, including:
   AFI 11-202V3, General Flight Rules; AFI 11-230, Instrument Procedures; AFI 11-
   2MDSV3, Operations Procedures publications for C-5, C-17, C-21, C-130, C-130J, KC-10,
   C/KC-135; C-27J CONOPS Annex; and by AFI 11-2VIPV3, VIP Operations Procedures,
   for C-20, C-32, C-37, C-40 (see References at Attachment 1).
      1.5.1. GDSS AFD suitability assessments (Giant Reports) are an extension of the ASRR.
      AMC aircraft use data published in the GDSS AFD and procedures outlined in the ASRR
      unless otherwise specified in applicable AFI 11-2MDSV3.
      1.5.2. A copy of the ASRR and individual airfield assessments from the GDSS database
      can     be     obtained   by    contacting   the     AMC      Airfield   Help   Desk:
      Airfield.Helpdesk@us.af.mil or DSN 312-779-3112. Access to the complete AFD is
      only available electronically via access to GDSS (registration required). Once
      registration is completed, access from the internet is possible through the GDSS web
      client by means of a Common Access Card (CAC) enabled computer on a military
      domain (.mil system). The web client provides a ―lightweight‖ interface into GDSS and
      does not require a software download.              The GDSS web client site is:
      https://gdssams.maf.ustranscom.mil.
2. Application, Accountability and Scope.
   2.1. Application. DASA policies outlined in this document apply to all AMC and AMC-
   gained aircraft, however, AMC has delegated sole responsibility for destination airport
   suitability analysis for Presidential Airlift Group (PAG) aircraft operations to the PAG
   Commander (PAG/CC). In addition, no reference to the VC-25 shall be included in any
   section of the AFD or in any ―Giant Report‖ airfield assessment in GDSS.
   2.2. Accountability. The AMC Airfield Suitability branch (AMC/A3AS) is the office of
   primary responsibility (OPR) for command DASA policies. However, as governed by AFI
 4                                                           AMCI11-211 21 DECEMBER 2012


     11-202V3, the pilot in command (PIC) is final authority for the safe operation of the aircraft
     on any airfield.
     2.3. Scope. For the purposes of this instruction, destination airport suitability analysis
     means the ability to adequately plan for and analyze paved surfaces, ground obstacles, and
     Terminal Instrument Procedures (TERPS) to ensure safe aircraft operations at a specific
     airfield.
        2.3.1. Airfield assessments can become complex for large mobility aircraft that have
        significant operating gross weights which place considerable stress on pavement, and
        wide wingspans that commonly extend beyond the edge of runways, taxiways, and/or
        parking aprons. Additionally, at outside the continental United States (OCONUS)
        airfields without a US Government (USG) published instrument procedure, a TERPS
        review is required unless exempted as specified in Paragraph 3.3., or otherwise exempted
        IAW AFI 11-230.
        2.3.2. AMC airfield suitability assessments in the ASRR and GDSS AFD contain
        detailed airfield pavement information and available obstacle information for all airport
        locations in the database. When available, completed TERPS reviews are also posted to
        the GDSS AFD.
3. Key DASA Attributes and Procedures:
     3.1. Paved Airfield Movement Surfaces. Any airfield pavement surface intended for
     aircraft operations possesses several attributes that must be analyzed in order to adequately
     and properly assess whether it is suitable for intended aircraft operations. At a minimum,
     these include: geometrics, surface type, strength, condition, and aircraft tire pressure limits
     as applicable.
        3.1.1. Pavement geometrics. A runway which does not meet minimum landing distance
        available (LDA) and/or width requirements is unsuitable for aircraft type unless waived
        by appropriate authority outlined in applicable AFI 11-2MDSV3. Approval to operate on
        runways more narrow than prescribed must ensure the capability to turnaround on the
        runway (or designated turnaround area) or to maneuver via suitable taxiways for
        subsequent takeoff while also ensuring any existing obstacles will not be a factor for
        operations. Likewise, approval to operate on taxiways more narrow than prescribed per
        AFI 11-2MDSV3 must ensure adequate clearance from ground obstructions that
        originally may not have been analyzed for aircraft type.
        3.1.2. Pavement surface type. Mobility aircraft are designed to operate on prepared,
        paved runways (rigid or flexible) with hard surface composition. Mobility Air Force
        (MAF) aircraft historically have incurred substantial damage as the result of takeoff and
        landing on semi-prepared (unpaved) surfaces. In an effort to reduce damage, AMC
        aircraft, except C-27, C-17 and C-130, are restricted from operating on semi-prepared
        runway surfaces. C-27, C-17 and C-130 adhere to semi-prepared runway operations
        (SPRO) guidance in the ASRR as well as AFI 11-2MDSV3 and AFI 13-217.
            3.1.2.1. Paved/prepared, hard surface runway types are identified in the DoD FLIP
            En route Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) Supplement; however, AMC considers
            surface material to be paved regardless of FLIP designation with endorsement of the
AMCI11-211 21 DECEMBER 2012                                                                 5


        command pavement engineer and approval from AMC/A3 (Director of Operations) or
        DA3.
        3.1.2.2. A ―semi-prepared‖ runway does not have a paved, hard surface and is
        considered a landing zone (LZ). Semi-prepared (other-than-hard-surface) runway
        types are also identified in the IFR Supplement. Exception: On a case-by-case basis,
        after consulting with the command pavement engineer, runways with very thin
        pavement (4 inches thickness or less) may be considered semi-prepared with a FOD
        sealer.
        3.1.2.3. Combat control and other appropriately trained and equipped personnel
        perform tactical LZ assessments in support of airlift operations and determine LZ
        suitability IAW AFI 13-217 and applicable Air Force and/or AMC guidance.
     3.1.3. Pavement strength. Pavement strength is also known as weight bearing capacity
     (WBC), or load-bearing capability, and it limits aircraft operations when the rated value
     is not sufficient to support planned aircraft gross weight. A paved surface that is
     overloaded increases the risk of structural deformation or failure and can result in
     expensive unintended consequences such as aircraft foreign object damage (FOD) and/or
     significant pavement repair costs. Unfortunately, a standard, universally recognized
     method for determining and reporting airfield pavement strength does not exist. The
     International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) has adopted the aircraft classification
     number (ACN)/pavement classification number (PCN) system. The Air Force Civil
     Engineer Support Agency (AFCESA) also utilizes the PCN method adopted by ICAO,
     but it is important to keep in mind that values are dependent upon aircraft type and pass
     intensity, and these factors are not standardized between ICAO and AFCESA. Many
     airfields under Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) jurisdiction still report pavement
     strength using aircraft gear type. The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA)
     uses load classification number (LCN) to denote pavement strength for many locations
     that do not use the ACN/PCN method. Finally, some foreign airports report pavement
     strength based on air traffic, or do not report it at all.
        3.1.3.1. AMC pavement strength evaluation procedures are coordinated with the
        Command Pavement Engineer (AMC/A7OI) and also address how pavement
        overload operations are handled.
        3.1.3.2. Acceptable data sources for pavement strength or WBC include: DoD or
        FAA FLIP; AFCESA pavement reports; NGA; Major Command (MAJCOM)
        Airfield Survey reports; pavement reports published by other services (i.e., Army,
        Navy) if available; appropriate host nation aeronautical information publication
        (AIP); Expeditionary Site Plan (ESP) reports; and other reports and/or methodology
        approved by the Command Pavement Engineer (AMC/A7OI). When there is
        conflicting pavement strength or WBC information between various sources, the
        Airfield Suitability office (AMC/A3AS) will consult with AMC/A7OI to determine
        which data source is most appropriate for planning. Planners should only use the
        airfield WBC values published in the GDSS AFD/ASRR. Where information
        conflicts with information contained in other publications, contact AMC/A3AS or the
        AMC Airfield Help Desk (airfield.helpdesk@us.af.mil) to validate correct
        information.
 6                                                          AMCI11-211 21 DECEMBER 2012


            3.1.3.3. Coordinate with airfield manager or senior airfield authority to obtain
            approval to operate at aircraft gross weights higher than WBC values published in the
            GDSS AFD/ASRR. Operating at gross weights greater than 50 percent above the
            GDSS AFD/ASRR published WBC value requires senior airfield authority/airfield
            manager approval in addition to AMC/A3 or 18 AF/CC waiver (as appropriate);
            follow waiver guidance in Paragraph 5.
        3.1.4. Pavement condition. Airfield pavement in substandard condition poses an
        increased risk of FOD due to substantial deterioration from distresses caused by aircraft
        loadings and environmental conditions. For this reason, mobility aircraft, (except for C-
        17, C-27 and C-130) are restricted from operating on pavement with a pavement
        condition index (PCI) rating < 40 without a waiver.
        3.1.5. Pavement Tire Pressure Limits. It is crucial to consider the impact of aircraft tire
        pressure on airport pavement. Flexible pavement is subject to rutting while rigid
        pavement is subject to cracking as a result of continual loading by aircraft with tire
        pressures exceeding established limits. The PCN rating method incorporates aircraft tire
        pressure limits that MAF aircraft must adhere to. Aircraft tire pressure limits for
        pavement with a PCN rating are denoted by the third letter (W, X, Y, or Z) of the five
        part PCN code, e.g., 78/R/B/X/T. This means that pavement with a ―W‖ rating can
        support all aircraft, while that rated with an ―X‖ is limited to tire pressure of 217 psi or
        less, etc., (see Figure 1). AMC aircraft use data published in the GDSS AFD and
        procedures outlined in the ASRR unless otherwise specified in applicable AFI 11-
        2MDSV3.

Figure 1. Five Part PCN Rating Code




     3.2. Airfield Obstacles. Airfield obstacles can impact landing and/or ground operations.
     Avoiding airfield obstacles is an aircrew responsibility. AMC planners must identify
     potential landing and ground obstacle hazards in advance to mitigate adverse impacts to the
     safe and efficient use of an airport. When the mission mandates aircraft operations into a
     non-standard, underdeveloped, or remote location, it is essential that planners and crews
     make every effort to evaluate airport obstacles such as vegetation, signage, etc., to ensure
AMCI11-211 21 DECEMBER 2012                                                                  7


  aircraft clearance and safety. Known airport obstructions impacting landing and ground
  operations are included in all GDSS AFD assessments (Giant Report) and the associated
  guidance and restrictions apply to designated AMC aircraft unless otherwise specified in
  appropriate AFI 11-2MDSV3. The following procedures and standards are to be adhered to
  for analysis of obstructions with potential to affect aircraft landing and/or ground
  maneuvering operations.
     3.2.1. Landing and ground operation obstacle analysis.
         3.2.1.1. AMC aircraft are initially restricted to day only operations where runway
         and taxi obstacle information from official sources is unavailable, questionable or
         insufficient, pending aircrew feedback. EXCEPTION: Aircraft other than C-5 are
         not restricted at airfields with known B747, B777, A380, AN124, or AN225 traffic,
         while C-5 aircraft may operate day only into airfields with known B747, B777, A380,
         AN124, or AN225 traffic pending feedback about obstacles.
         3.2.1.2. Analysts, planners and/or aircrews are expected to use the best available
         obstacle data for a particular airport at the time of analysis. Contact the AMC
         Airfield Help Desk regarding questions concerning obstacle data or to provide
         feedback.
         3.2.1.3. AMC has established an annual review cycle to periodically confirm the
         accuracy of obstacle data and suitability of assessment procedures in the GDSS AFD.
         Accordingly, aircrew and planner feedback are essential to incorporate changes that
         occur outside normal analysis review cycles.
     3.2.2. Obstacle clearance standards for runway and taxiway operations. AMC/A3 or
     DA3 approval is required prior to AMC or AMC-gained missions being planned to
     operate on runways with obstacles that penetrate the following criteria.
         3.2.2.1. Runway approval obstacles. Pilots of AMC and AMC-gained aircraft will
         land past (and takeoff prior to) runway approval obstacles; these are obstacles in
         proximity to the runway taller than the height of the wing tip or nacelle when bank is
         3.5° (5° for C-17, C-27 and C-130) and located within the edge of the wing tip or
         nacelle of the aircraft plus 35 feet (Figure 2). Aircrew will treat runway approval
         obstacle as a displaced threshold to ensure obstacle clearance. The ASRR contains
         runway approval obstacle height and distance criteria for specific mobility aircraft.
 8                                                           AMCI11-211 21 DECEMBER 2012


Figure 2. Runway Obstacle Analysis




            3.2.2.2. In addition to approval obstacles, the GDSS AFD provides advisories to
            aircraft commanders regarding known obstacles that may affect 180° turns on the
            runway. Advisory obstacles are listed if they are located within wing tip or nacelle
            height of the aircraft with aircraft gear on the runway edge. The ASRR contains
            runway advisory obstacle height and distance criteria for specific mobility aircraft.
            Aircraft intending to operate on runways with obstacles that penetrate ASRR advisory
            criteria are required to check the GDSS AFD for the latest information.
            3.2.2.3. Taxiway obstacles. AFI 11-218, Aircraft Operations and Movement on the
            Ground, and AMC Supplement, outline mandatory obstacle clearance for taxi
            operations. In order to adhere to these instructions, AMC has formed well-defined
            guidance concerning what constitutes an obstacle. In the absence of MDS-specific
            guidance, AMC and AMC-gained aircraft are restricted from taxiing past obstacles
            located within 10 feet of the wing tip or nacelle, and taller than the height of the wing
            tip or nacelle when depressed at 3.5° (5° for C-17, C-27 and C-130). MDS-specific
            tables and information are contained in the ASRR.
     3.3. Destination Airfield Terminal Instrument Procedures Review.
        3.3.1. AFI 11-202V3 and AFI 11-230 allow a TERPS review conducted by one
        MAJCOM to apply to all MAJCOMs--referred to as ―Universal Review‖ in TERPS
        vernacular. Reviews of selected instrument approach, departure and arrival procedures
        necessary to complete the mission are normally accomplished by the MAJCOM TERPS
        office responsible for the geographic region in which the airport is located, and TERPS
        review letters are posted in the GDSS AFD. When circumstances dictate (short-notice
        mission requirements, etc.), a MAJCOM is permitted to accomplish their own review(s)
        for airports in any geographic region after obtaining approval from the responsible
        MAJCOM TERPS office.
        3.3.2. To assist the TERPS Operational Risk Management (ORM) process in
        determining and/or preserving IFR landing minima, the mission execution authority will
AMCI11-211 21 DECEMBER 2012                                                                        9


     occasionally task aircrews to provide specific feedback using AF Form 3992, Instrument
     Procedure Flyability Check – Instrument Approach Procedure (IAP), and/or AF Form
     3993, Instrument Procedure Flyability Check – Departure Procedures (DP).
     Consequently, aircrews shall complete any AF Form 3992/3993 that has been posted in
     the Giant Report for a specific location, and return to the appropriate MAJCOM TERPS
     office (identified in the applicable AF Form 3992/3993) within five duty days after
     mission completion.
     3.3.3. The TERPS review and approval restrictions, posted on the GDSS AFD, apply to
     all USAF aircraft unless a MAJCOM-specific restriction is annotated. MAJCOM-
     specific restrictions can be more or less restrictive than the basic TERPS review letter and
     apply only to the specified MAJCOM and associated MAJCOM-gained aircraft.
     3.3.4. Planners and aircrews are responsible for checking the GDSS AFD to determine
     whether the necessary procedure review has been accomplished and approved for use.
     Planners and aircrews must pay close attention to the details of the approved TERPS
     review. Also be aware that all TERPS reviews required for multi-leg missions may not
     be completed prior to the mission start date. Therefore, the status of reviews not
     completed prior to the mission start date must be verified while en route prior to the
     arrival date at the destination airfield. Refer to AFI 11-202V3 for other detailed guidance
     concerning USAF aircrew use of non-USG FLIP products.
     3.3.5. TERPs reviews are valid only for the instrument flight procedures, page numbers,
     and effective dates listed.
  3.4. Certification Airfield. Certification Airfields have highly unique hazards and/or
  operating procedures requiring increased preparation, awareness and familiarity on the part
  of the aircrew. In order for a particular crew to operate at a Certification Airfield, the aircraft
  commander must have operated into that airfield within the past two years as pilot, copilot, or
  observer who actively monitored the approach. Waiver authority is the aircraft commander’s
  (AC’s) Operations Group Commander (OG/CC). Airfields are designated as a Certification
  Airfield by AMC/A3V normally based upon aircrew and safety recommendations. A
  complete listing of AMC Certification Airfields is in the ASRR.
  3.5. Special Pilot-In-Command Airport. Airports are considered for designation as a
  Special Pilot-In-Command (PIC) airport based upon aircrew and safety recommendations, or
  classification as a FAA Special Pilot-In-Command Qualification Airport IAW Code of
  Federal Regulations, Title 14 – Aeronautics and Space, Part 121, Section 121.445 (14 CFR
  §121.445). The specific reason for classification as a Special PIC airport (mountainous
  terrain, unique procedures, etc.) is included in the assigned airfield restriction in the GDSS
  AFD Giant Report. Waiver authority for Special PIC airport requirements is the AC’s
  OG/CC and may not be delegated below the AC’s SQ/CC.
     3.5.1. Pilot experience requirement. No crew shall operate to/from a Special PIC airport
     unless, within the preceding 12 calendar months, a pilot crew member accomplishing
     pilot duties in one of the primary seats, has made an entry to the airport (a takeoff or
     landing) while performing pilot duties in one of the primary seats.
     3.5.2. The pilot experience requirement does not apply when the ceiling, within plus or
     minus (+) 1 hour estimated time of arrival (ETA), is at least 1,000 feet above the lowest
 10                                                          AMCI11-211 21 DECEMBER 2012


       minimum en route altitude (MEA), minimum obstruction clearance altitude (MOCA) or
       initial approach altitude and visibility at the airport is at least three nautical miles (NMs).
       3.5.3. Review of NGA produced Airport Qualification Program (AQP) charts/pictorials
       or commercially available Jeppesen® AQP products also satisfy the pilot experience
       requirement for a Special PIC airport. If AQP products are unavailable, an airfield
       briefing from a home-station, deployed, or stage-operated Tactics office which includes
       airfield imagery, an overview of terrain features, and other unique airfield information
       may be used to satisfy pilot experience requirements. Exception: For C-20, C-32, C-37,
       C-40 and VC-25, an alternate pictorial/graphical airfield study, approved by the AC’s
       OG/CC or PAG/CC, satisfies pilot experience requirements when one of the
       aforementioned resources is not available.
   3.6. Mountainous Terrain.
       3.6.1. Airfields are considered to be in mountainous terrain in the GDSS AFD Giant
       Report if any of the following three criteria are met: 1) terrain is above 3,000 feet outside
       US domestic airspace; 2) terrain varies more than 1,000 feet in elevation within 10 NMs
       of the airfield; or 3) airfield is in a designated mountainous area IAW Code of Federal
       Regulations, Title 14 – Aeronautics and Space, Part 95, Section 95.11 (14 CFR §95.11).
       3.6.2. In other than day visual flight rules (VFR), pilots may only fly below the
       minimum safe altitude (MSA) at airfields in the vicinity of mountainous terrain if under
       radar control or established on a segment of a published arrival procedure, instrument
       approach, or departure procedure. In addition, to fly below the MSA, pilots must
       reference on-board navigation equipment capable of deriving an integrated navigation
       solution that will keep their aircraft clear of terrain. However, unless otherwise
       restricted, pilots may fly VFR at night to/from airfields in the vicinity of mountainous
       terrain provided they are able to ensure situational awareness and keep the aircraft clear
       of terrain using one or more of the following methods: a) receive radial/Distance
       Measuring Equipment (DME) in the vicinity of the airfield, b) reference on-board Global
       Positioning System (GPS) equipment to derive an integrated navigational solution, or c)
       fly VFR utilizing night vision devices (NVDs) with reference to other onboard navigation
       solutions.
   3.7. Landing Illusion (black hole): Night operations are approved provided an authorized
   precision approach is available and flown; or visual approach slope indicator
   (VASI)/precision approach path indicator (PAPI)/optical landing system (OLS) lighting is
   operational for the landing runway; or aircraft is equipped with an operable Glide Path
   indicator IAW AFI 11-2MDSV3. Night departure from an airport with a black hole landing
   illusion incurs the same aforementioned requirements for possible emergency return, or other
   takeoff alternate suitable for night landing to be available.
4. Responsibilities:
   4.1. AMC will:
       4.1.1. Ensure the ASRR and GDSS AFD are revised annually for accuracy, clarity, and
       updated with the most current and best available airfield data and information.
AMCI11-211 21 DECEMBER 2012                                                                    11


     4.1.2. Ensure the ASRR and GDSS AFD are made available to USAF aviation planners
     and crews IAW AFI 11-202V3. Other services will be supported as resources allow.
     4.1.3. Maintain an airfield help desk function to handle inquiries and provide
     clarification and/or interpretation relating to destination airfield pavement and/or obstacle
     data, suitability analysis, or issues related to this instruction, the GDSS AFD, and ASRR.
     4.1.4. Establish procedures to ensure AMC airfield operations personnel review the
     ASRR and GDSS AFD for currency and accuracy on a regular basis and, prior to
     implementation, coordinate with HQ AMC/A3A regarding any long-term permanent
     changes to airfield data or procedural actions that could affect operating restrictions for
     incorporation into the GDSS AFD and ASRR.
     4.1.5. Ensure the TERPS office establishes a method to efficiently handle review
     requests and checks GDSS, or coordinates with other MAJCOMs, to determine if a
     review of a specific procedure has already been accomplished. Completed TERPS
     reviews from other MAJCOMs are forwarded to the HQ AMC TERPS office (A3AT)
     IAW the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on disseminating foreign terminal
     instrument procedure (FTIP) information via AMC GDSS.
     4.1.6. Ensure command pavement engineer provides expertise and advice concerning
     pavement evaluation report questions and issues involving weight bearing capacity,
     pavement condition, tire pressure limits, and other pavement related matters that impact
     or have potential to impact aircraft operations.
  4.2. AMC/A3 will:
     4.2.1. Ensure AMC Airfield Analysts have successfully completed an appropriate
     AFCESA Airfield Pavement Evaluation Course.
     4.2.2. Ensure the ASRR and GDSS AFD airfield assessments are regularly reviewed,
     revised and updated as new information and/or official feedback becomes available (the
     ASRR policy document is revised and published on a periodic basis).
  4.3. 18 AF will:
     4.3.1. Establish procedures to ensure planners and flight managers review airfield
     suitability IAW guidance in this publication, the GDSS AFD and the ASRR, advising
     aircrews of hazards and operating restrictions as required, weight bearing capacity
     waivers, etc.
     4.3.2. Ensure Command and Control (C2) and Air and Space Operations Center
     (AOC)/Air Mobility Division (AMD) personnel examine pertinent GDSS TERPS
     reviews as appropriate and confirm approval of destination airfield(s) instrument
     procedures prior to mission launch.
     4.3.3. Ensure wing planners assume responsibility to confirm current GDSS AFD
     information when they receive the mission operating directive (MOD) until the ―mission
     set-up‖ is passed to the squadron that will operate the mission. Final responsibility for
     mission conduct remains with the aircraft commander.
 12                                                     AMCI11-211 21 DECEMBER 2012


      4.3.4. Ensure wing planners task aircrews to provide feedback and pass GDSS AFD
      advisory/approval information to aircrews. Unit Current Operations will include similar
      remarks in the ―mission set-up‖ for the squadron that will operate the mission.
   4.4. 618th Air and Space Operations Center (AOC)/Tanker Airlift Control Center
   (TACC) (618 AOC/TACC) will:
      4.4.1. Mission planners and flight managers will determine airfield suitability IAW
      guidance in the ASRR and GDSS AFD.
      4.4.2. Ensure flight managers check the GDSS AFD to confirm the most current airfield
      restrictions information during mission execution, as required.
      4.4.3. Wing planners are responsible for the aforementioned duties for off station
      training (OST) and other unique wing missions that are not planned by the 618
      AOC/TACC.
   4.5. Command and Control (C2) Responsibilities:
      4.5.1. Flight managers review sorties transiting ―T‖ coded airfields (refers to ASRR
      suitability ―T‖ code denoting TERPS approval may be required) to confirm AMC
      approval of Host Nation/Jeppesen instrument procedures. If Host Nation/Jeppesen
      procedures are out of date TACC C2 will notify the aircraft commander and determine an
      appropriate course of action.
      4.5.2. Contact AMC/A3AS, or on-call officer via the 618 AOC (TACC) during non-duty
      hours, with requests for waiver to airfield suitability restrictions.
      4.5.3. C2 personnel review all GDSS Mission Detail information to include controller
      and mission remarks on those missions scheduled to originate and/or transit their
      airfields. Note: GDSS Mission Detail is also known as the mission directive or referred
      to informally as the, ―Form 59‖.
5. Waivers:
   5.1. Waivers to this instruction and to ASRR guidance will only be considered for
   operational necessity to ensure completion of a specific flying mission.
   5.2. Unless otherwise directed in this instruction, Commander, Eighteenth Air Force (Air
   Forces Transportation) (18 AF/CC (AFTRANS/CC)), is waiver authority for AMC and
   AMC-gained aircraft conducting operational missions. Waiver authority for MAF aircraft
   not operating on an AFTRANS-tasked mission is the tasking MAJCOM. AMC/A3 retains
   waiver authority for training missions and airfield infrastructure issues. Waiver authority
   may be delegated to no lower than the 18 AF/CV or AMC/DA3 as applicable. Exception:
   The PAG/CC retains waiver authority for all Presidential Airlift Group missions.
      5.2.1. All waivers to this publication and to ASRR guidance will be documented via
      memorandum for record (MFR) and listed in the GDSS AFD if appropriate.
AMCI11-211 21 DECEMBER 2012                                                                13


     5.2.2. All waiver requests will state the nature, rationale, and duration of the proposed
     aircraft operation(s), as well as sufficient operational risk management (ORM)
     justification on which to base a decision.
     5.2.3. TERPS waivers are in accordance with AFI 11-230.




                                          SCOTT P. GOODWIN, Brigadier General, USAF
                                          Director for Operations
 14                                                      AMCI11-211 21 DECEMBER 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD 3-17, Air Mobility Operations, 1 March 2006, incorporating Change 1, 28 July 2011
AFPD 10-21, Air Mobility Lead Command Roles And Responsibilities, 1 May 1998
AFI 11-218, Aircraft Operations And Movement On The Ground, 28 October 2011
AFI 11-218_AMC SUP I, Aircraft Operations And Movement On The Ground, 26 May 2011
AFI 11-230, Instrument Procedures, 30 March 2010
AFI 11-202V3, General Flight Rules, 22 October 2010
AFI 11-2C-130JV3, C-130J Operations Procedures, 8 December 2009
AFI 11-2C-130V3, C-130 Operations Procedures, 23 April 2012
AFI 11-2C-17V3, C-17 Operations Procedures, 16 November 2011
AFI 11-2C-21V3, C-21 Operations Procedures, 24 September 2010, incorporating Change 1, 27
January 2012
AFI 11-2C-5V3, C-5 Operations Procedures, 24 February 2012
AFI 11-2KC-10V3, KC-10 Operations Procedures, 30 August 2011
AFI 11-2KC-135V3, C/KC-135 Operations Procedures, 18 September 2008, Certified Current,
15 October 2010, and including AFGM3, 22 September 2011
AFI 11-2VIPV3, VIP Operations Procedures, 12 February 2010
AFI 13-217, Drop Zone And Landing Zone Operations, 10 May 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, and including AFGM1.1, 9 April
2012
AMCI 11-208, Tanker/Airlift Operations, 1 June 2000
AMC/A3V (Stan/Eval) Flight Crew Information File (FCIF) 11-09-17, Approval to fly Jeppesen
without a (TERPS) review, Released: 26 September 2011, Retain Until:
30 September 2013
C-27J CONOPS ANNEX C, C-27J Operations Procedures, 20 July 2011
Code of Federal Regulations, Title 14 – Aeronautics and Space, Part 95, Subpart B, Designated
Mountainous Areas; and Part 121, Subpart O, Section 121.445 – Pilot in command airport
qualification: Special areas and airports.
DoD Flight Information Publication (Enroute); IFR Supplement, NGA cyclic flight publication
released every 8 weeks
HQ AMC publication; Airfield Suitability and Restrictions Report, published quarterly
AMCI11-211 21 DECEMBER 2012                                                            15


National Geospatial-intelligence Agency publication; Aeronautical Production Manual,
November 2002
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACN—Aircraft Classification Number
AFCESA—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFD—GDSS Airfield Database
AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Document
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTRANS—Air Forces Transportation
AIP—Aeronautical Information Publication
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMCI—Air Mobility Command Instruction
AMD—Air Mobility Division
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air and Space Operations Center
AQP—Airport Qualification Program
ASRR—Airfield Suitability and Restrictions Report
CAC—Common Access Card
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
C2—Command and Control
DASA—Destination Airfield Suitability Analysis
DME—Distance Measuring Equipment
DoD—Department of Defense
ESP—Expeditionary Site Plan
ETA—Estimated Time of Arrival
 16                                              AMCI11-211 21 DECEMBER 2012


FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FLIP—Flight Publications
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
FTIP—Foreign Terminal Instrument Procedure
GDSS—Global Decision Support System
GPS—Global Positioning System
IAW—in accordance with
ICAO—International Civil Aviation Organization
IFR—Instrument Flight Rules
LCN—Load Classification Number
LDA—Landing Distance Available
LM App—Location Management Application.
LZ—Landing Zone
MAF—Mobility Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MEA—Minimum Enroute Altitude
MFR—Memorandum For Record
MOCA—Minimum Obstruction Clearance Altitude
MOD—Mission Operating Directive
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MSA—Minimum Safe Altitude
NGA—National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
NM—Nautical Mile
NVD—Night Vision Device
OCONUS—outside the continental United States
ORM—Operational Risk Management
OST—Off Station Trainer
PAG—Presidential Airlift Group
PCI—Pavement Classification Index
PCN—Pavement Classification Number
PIC—Pilot in Command
AMCI11-211 21 DECEMBER 2012                       17


SPRO—Semi-Prepared Runway Operation
TERPS—Terminal Instrument Procedure
UPAM—Unit Program Account Manager
USAF—United States Air Force
USG—United States Government
USTRANSCOM—United States Transportation Command
VFR—Visual Flight Rules
WBC—Weight Bearing Capacity
