BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                   INSTRUCTION 11-207

                                                                              7 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                               Flying Operations

                                                       WEAPONS AND TACTICS PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AMC/A3D                                                       Certified by: HQ AMC/A3
                                                                       (Col John A. Rutkowski)
Supersedes:    AMCI11-207, 14 Jun 2005                                                 Pages: 49


This instruction supplements AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, AFPD 10-7, Command
and Control Warfare, AFI 10-703, Electronic Warfare Integrated Reprogramming, AFI 10-706,
Electronic Warfare, AFI 11-260, Tactics Development Program, and AFI 11-415, Weapons and
Tactics Program. It establishes policies, responsibilities, and procedures for conducting the
AMC tactics program and electronic warfare training. It is applicable to AMC, Air National
Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Mobility Air Forces (MAF) units. This
instruction applies during peacetime, contingency, and wartime. Send comments and suggested
improvements to this publication on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through channels, to HQ AMC/A3D, 402 Scott Drive Unit 3A1, Scott AFB IL 62225-5302.
Waivers: Active duty units submit requests for deviations from this instruction to AMC/A3
unless otherwise noted. AFRC and ANG units submit requests for deviations from this
instruction to the National Guard Bureau (NGB) A3 or HQ AFRC/A3 for approval. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision defines
the roles and responsibilities of MAF Unit Tacticians and Electronic Combat Officers (ECO). It
specifies procedures that assist forces to operate and survive in a hostile threat environment. It
 2                                                                                      AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


incorporates the Total Force Initiative (TFI) between AMC/A3 and the Advanced Airlift Tactics
Training Center (AATTC), Air National Guard, St Joseph MO.

        1.      General Information. ..............................................................................................    2
        2.      Tactics Development .............................................................................................      4
        3.      Electronic Warfare Development. .........................................................................             11
        4.      Group and Squadron Weapons and Tactics Organizations, Roles and Responsibilities. 16
        5.      Deployed Weapons and Tactics Flight Organization and Employment. ...............                                      29
        6.      Tactician Development. .........................................................................................      32

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                        36

Attachment 2—TACTICIAN DEVELOPMENT CURRICULUM                                                                                         43

Attachment 3—TACTICS DEVELOPMENT CYCLE                                                                                                45

Attachment 4—TACTICS TIP SUMMARY EXAMPLE                                                                                              47

Attachment 5—TEST REQUEST EXAMPLE                                                                                                     48

Attachment 6—CLOSEOUT MFR EXAMPLE                                                                                                     49


1. General Information.
     1.1. General. The purpose of this document is to provide commanders and action officers at
     all levels of command a basic outline for organizing, staffing, and equipping tactics
     organizations within their scope of responsibility and to define the roles of various command
     organizations with regard to command and control and electronic warfare (EW).
        1.1.1. Units seeking an exception to this instruction must request a waiver from their
        respective Major Command (MAJCOM) A3. Be sure to include all justifying
        documentation supporting the waiver.
     1.2. Lead Command Coordination. Headquarters (HQ) Air Mobility Command (AMC) is
     designated as Lead Command for developing, documenting, and disseminating tactics and
     techniques for the Mobility Air Forces (MAF) and civilian augmentation mobility assets.
     Combat Operations within the MAF is a consolidated effort among the Active Duty (AD) Air
     Force, AFRC and NGB for tactics and EW development and tactics education and training.
     The direction comes from AMC through coordination with AFRC and NGB. Guidance
     comes from this instruction in conjunction with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 11-260.
     1.3. AMC Responsibilities. AMC is responsible to organize, train, and equip MAF forces to
     conduct combat operations.
        1.3.1. Combat Operations Division (AMC/A3D) will identify and define tactics and
        technology shortfalls impacting MAF operations. AMC tasks tactics and EW
        development as needed to support operations and acquire technology to ensure safe
        mission employment in a threat environment. Needs will be identified through Urgent
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                      3


     Operational Needs Statements (UONs), the Tactics Review Board (TRB), AF Form 1067
     “Request for Aircraft Modification”, Operation Plans (OPLANS), Contingency Plans
     (CONPLANS), Capability Development Documents (CDD), Air Force Universal Task
     Lists (AFUTL), Theater requests and other formats and meetings as necessary.
     1.3.2. AMC/A3D will ensure capability needs are identified to the acquisition
     community throughout the Requirements and Planning Council (R&PC) process. AMC
     as Lead Command will ensure technology insertion through aircraft modification is
     completed in as timely a manner as possible.
     1.3.3. AMC/A3D will establish priorities for tactics and EW development through
     annual conferences, AMC approved test priority lists and current warfighter needs.
     AMC/A3D will coordinate with the Commander AATTC to establish priorities for tactics
     training and education (e.g., number of classes, course quotas).
  1.4. AATTC Responsibilities. The primary focus area of AATTC is tactics and EW
  development, tactics and EW education and specific training courses focused on operations
  in combat environments. AATTC is the home of the MAF Tactics and EW Center of
  Excellence (CoE).
     1.4.1. AATTC will be staffed with AD, AFRC, and ANG subject matter experts (SMEs)
     IAW the TFI in order to fully support tactics and EW development and tactics training
     and education.
     1.4.2. The Commander AATTC will conduct courses, tactics and EW development, and
     other tasks IAW the priorities established by AMC as Lead Command in coordination
     with NGB and HQ AFRC.
     1.4.3. AATTC will train MAF personnel in the following courses: Combat Aircrew
     Tactics Studies/Mobility Electronic Combat Officer Course (CATS-MECOC), Mobility
     Commanders Tactics Course (MCTC), Advanced Air Mobility Intelligence Course
     (AAMIC), Aircrew Flying Course, Night Ground Personnel Course (NGPC), Weapon
     Task Qualification Manager (WTQM), and just-in-time training as needed to support the
     MAF. The number of classes and students is determined annually through coordination
     with AMC, NGB and AFRC.
         1.4.3.1. The Aircrew Flying Course and AAMIC mutually benefit from integrated
         operations, training and support. AMC/A3, AMC/A2 and AATTC should work to
         ensure maximum integration of these courses occurs as resources permit.
         1.4.3.2. The focus of AAMIC is to improve intelligence integration in MAF mission
         planning and to provide critical intelligence knowledge, skills and abilities associated
         with aircrew mission preparation, tactical mission execution, debriefing and
         reporting.
         1.4.3.3. Tactics and EW course descriptions are located in the following chapters of
         this instruction.
     1.4.4. The Commander AATTC will submit budget requests as necessary to fulfill each
     respective headquarters’ needs.
         1.4.4.1. MAJCOMs and NGB will ensure funding and staffing are adequate to
         complete mission tasking.
 4                                                             AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


2. Tactics Development
     2.1. General. This chapter addresses the specifics of MAF tactics development. It specifies
     the responsibilities and functions for AMC organizations to process, test, and release tactics
     to be utilized by the MAF. This chapter should be used in conjunction with AFI 11-260
     when dealing with Tactics Improvement Proposals (TIPs), TRB process, and MAF tactics
     development procedures.
        2.1.1. AMC/A3 is the focal point for the MAF Tactics Development (TD) Program. The
        MAF Tactics and EW CoE/ AATTC are the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) and
        program manager for the MAF TD Program. The TD branch of the CoE executes the TD
        Program in unison with AMC/A3D. The CoE, with the assistance of AMC/A3D will
        coordinate with AMC/A3T, NGB/A3O, and AFRC/A3T on programs that affect their
        respective activities. TD is designed to identify tactical employment opportunities,
        participates in formal Tactics Development and Evaluations (TD&E), pursue
        new/improved Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs), continually validate existing
        tactics against emerging threats, develop tactics for new or modified weapons systems,
        and rapidly disseminate tactical information. General guidance for MAF TD can be
        found in AFI 11-260 Tactics Development Program. This AMCI applies to MAF TIPs,
        (using AF IMT 4326) and Action Items (AI) developed as part of the TIP submission
        process outlined within AFI 11-260.
        2.1.2. AMC/A3D Combat Operations Division. AMC/A3D is the functional operations
        lead for MAF Weapons and Tactics initiatives. AMC/A3D develops AMC Weapons and
        Tactics policy and defines capability to determine tactical requirements. AMC/A3D
        provides vision and guidance on TD issues. AMC/A3D coordinates with other AMC staff
        organizations on TD issues.
        2.1.3. AMC/A3DI, AMC/A3DJ, AMC/A3DT. These divisions may be asked to serve as
        Aircraft Mission Design Series (MDS) or Mission Area (MA) working group chairs
        during the MAF TRB process and SMEs during disposition recommendations for TIPs
        requiring immediate action. In addition, these organizations may be asked to provide
        inputs during the test and evaluation process and/or to take part in reporting and
        dissemination working groups. Finally, each branch is responsible for being proactive in
        the identification of tactical deficiencies and development of emerging TTPs. AMC/A3D
        is the formal tasking authority for any of the above additional duties.
        2.1.4. MAF Tactics and EW CoE. The CoE houses the MAF TD branch and provides
        support for the TD process. The CoE provides SMEs in tactical employment of aircraft
        systems and subsystems. This expertise creates a force multiplying effect on the TD
        process.
        2.1.4.1. MAF TD Branch. Identifies and documents tactical deficiencies, provides
        inputs to update requirements documents, and takes action to correct deficiencies. MAF
        TD coordinates with various MAJCOM organizations to complete the management
        process that ensures all TIPs submitted to TD are tracked until completion of all required
        actions. TD participates in TD&E and analyzes results for incorporation into TTPs and
        establishes procedures for closing TIPs. TD works with the 561st Joint Tactics Squadron
        (JTS) for inclusion of new TTPs into the AFTTP 3-1 and 3-3 series.
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                      5


  2.2. TD Process. TD is a four-step process. The steps include: identification of tactics
  deficiencies; tasking and planning; execution; and reporting and dissemination. The
  following paragraphs break down these steps in further detail. Attachment 2 serves as a flow
  chart for the TD process.
     2.2.1. Identification of Tactics Deficiencies:
         2.2.1.1. TIP Submission. All TIPs will be submitted to TD IAW AFI 11-260 and this
         Air Mobility Command Instruction (AMCI). TIPs originating within A3D will be
         reviewed by the Chief (or deputy), Combat Operations Division (AMC/A3D) in place
         of a group or wing level review prior to presentation at the MAF TRB. TIPs
         originating within the Tactics and EW CoE will be reviewed by the Commander
         AATTC in place of a group or wing level review prior to presentation at the MAF
         TRB. During the MAF TRB, any working group member may submit a TIP. Review
         authority during the TRB will be the MDS or MA Working Group Chair.
         2.2.1.2. Initial Screening. Submitted TIPs will be initially screened by TD to ensure
         they are properly formatted, contain sufficient detail to convey intent, and do not
         duplicate previous TIPs. TIPs that do not pass the initial screening will be returned to
         sending unit with an explanation of corrections necessary. During the screening
         process TD will also determine if the TIP requires immediate action or can be
         handled IAW the normal TRB process timeline.
         2.2.1.3. Documentation. TIPs passing initial screening will be assigned a control
         number and a MDS or MA working group IAW AFI 11-260.
             2.2.1.3.1. Once a control number is assigned the TIP will be inputted into the TIP
             tracking database located on the MAF TD Community of Practice (CoP)
             (https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-OP-AM-12).
             The original TIP, with signatures, will be maintained on file with TD. An electronic
             copy of unclassified TIPs will be loaded on the MAF TD CoP and emailed to the TD
             organizational    inbox,    AATTC/Tactics        (development@mostjo.ang.af.mil).
             Classified TIPs will be posted on the AMC/A3D classified CoP
             (https://afkm.wrightpatterson.af.smil.mil/amccombatops)          under   the    sub-
             organization ―Tactics Development‖ and emailed to the classified TD organizational
             mailbox.
             2.2.1.3.2. TIP Summaries. A TIP Summary (see Attachment 3) will be created
             for each TIP assigned a control number. All action taken on a TIP will be
             documented on the TIP Summary for office continuity.
                2.2.1.3.2.1. An annual TIP Summary Report (PowerPoint) will be created and
                posted to the MAF TD CoP no later than one month after the TIPs meeting the
                TRB have been approved by the AMC/A3. It will summarize all actions taken
                on any open TIPs, highlight TIPs closed during the year, and introduce the
                new TIPs approved by the AMC/A3 from the TRB. Annual reports will be
                maintained on the MAF TD CoP for five years and archived in TD files for 10
                years.
                2.2.1.3.2.2. A semiannual TIP Summary Report (PowerPoint) will be created
                and posted to the MAF TD CoP by 1 March and 1 September to provide
6                                                    AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


          information to units preparing for their semiannual TRB. It will summarize
          action taken on open TIPs, highlight recently closed TIPs, and introduce any
          new TIP submission during the semiannual period. Semiannual reports will
          be maintained on the MAF TD CoP until the annual TIP status report is posted
          and archived in TD files for five years.
    2.2.1.4. TIP Validation Process. The standard method for determining TIP
    disposition is by the AMC/A3 through the MAF TRB Process. For TIPs requiring
    immediate action, disposition will be determined by the AMC/A3 through the
    Immediate TIP Process.
       2.2.1.4.1. MAF TRB Process.
          2.2.1.4.1.1. Working Group Chairs. TD will conduct the annual MAF TRB
          and will assign MDS and/or MA working group chairs approximately 30 days
          prior to the TRB. The priority for chair selection is: Tactics and EW
          CoE/AMC/A3D, MDS United States Air Force Weapons School (USAFWS),
          Wing and Operations Group. The intent is for the same personnel who will be
          evaluating the TIPs to be the same personnel who will be involved in any
          following TD&E.
          2.2.1.4.1.2. MAF TRB Working Groups. MDS and MA working groups will
          consist of experts from different MAJCOMs in their respective MDS or MA.
          TD will provide working group chairs with all relevant TIP submissions,
          expectations, briefing templates, and any rules of engagement (ROEs) for the
          MAF TRB. This will allow chairs time to review each TIP and provide the
          best preparation prior to the MAF TRB. During the MAF TRB, the chairs and
          their working group members determine recommendations for TIP
          disposition; review existing TIPs and action items; prioritize all TIPs, action
          items, and tactics tests and write any test requests. Disposition choices are:
          Concur, Concur w/Intent, Non-concur.
            2.2.1.4.1.2.1. Concur. A Concur disposition is affirmation that the TIP has
            identified a valid tactics deficiency and should be tested and/or developed.
            Working group will make a recommendation to accept proposed solution as
            written or determine if further validation/testing is necessary. Concur
            solutions include: Send to Test, Develop/Validate TTPs, Combine with
            another TIP, Combine with existing TD&E, and Defer.
               2.2.1.4.1.2.1.1. Send to Test. Any TIP receiving a Send to Test
               recommendation will include a draft Test Request (see Attachment 4).
               Normally, the working group will draft the Test Request. The TIP will
               be closed once the test is complete and the new/improved tactic is
               incorporated into TTPs.
               2.2.1.4.1.2.1.2. Develop/Validate TTP. Valid TIPs that consist of
               changing, deleting, or creating TTPs without a requirement for testing
               will receive a Develop/Validate TTP disposition. These TIPs will
               include a draft AF Form 847. Normally, the working group will draft
               the AF Form 847. The TIP will be closed once the objectives have been
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                  7


                 met and incorporated into TTPs. If the TIP also requires a change to an
                 AFI, then an Action Item will be opened and a second AF Form 847 will
                 be drafted by the working group and submitted through the proper
                 channels if approved. Note: AF Form 847s to AFTTP 3 series that only
                 make minor content changes are not TIPs and should not be considered
                 action items.
                 2.2.1.4.1.2.1.3. Combine with another TIP. The TIP has objectives that
                 are similar to another TIP and by combining both a better solution is
                 met. The TIP that is combined will be closed after validation by the
                 AMC/A3.
                 2.2.1.4.1.2.1.4. Combine with existing TD&E. The TIP is found to
                 amplify a current test request or test plan. TD will draft an amendment
                 to the current test request and AMCTES will draft an amendment to the
                 current test plan including the additional objectives required. The TIP
                 that is combined will be closed after validation by the AMC/A3 and
                 when incorporated into the existing test request or test plan.
                 2.2.1.4.1.2.1.5. Defer. The TIP is valid, however, is not able to be
                 tested at this time due to limitations. Normally the working group will
                 create a draft test request that will be shelved and maintained by TD
                 until the limitations are no longer a factor, at which time the test request
                 will be submitted. Deferred TIPs will continue to meet each successive
                 MAF TRB until it is either submitted or deleted.
              2.2.1.4.1.2.2. Concur w/Intent. A Concur w/Intent disposition denotes a
              submission that does not fit TIP criteria, yet still requires action. Concur
              w/Intent solutions include: Not a TIP and Reassign to Another Organization.
              Both will be handled as MAF TRB action items.
                 2.2.1.4.1.2.2.1. Not a TIP. The TIP submission does not meet the
                 requirements for a TIP, but still has valid implications to the tactics
                 community. Normally the working group will draft the required AF
                 Form (i.e. 847, 1067). The TIP will be closed and reassigned as an
                 action item after validation by the AMC/A3.
                 2.2.1.4.1.2.2.2. Reassign to Another Organization. The TIP submission
                 did not meet the requirements for a TIP and holds more merit for another
                 organization (i.e. AMC/A3V, AMC/A3T). Normally the working group
                 will draft the form required. The TIP will be closed and reassigned as an
                 action item after validation by the AMC/A3.
              2.2.1.4.1.2.3. Non-concur. A Non-concur disposition denotes a submission
              that will not have action taken upon it. Non-concur solutions include:
              Deleted. Deleted TIPs include submissions redundant with previous TIPs,
              deemed unnecessary or invalid by the working group, or provide incomplete
              or invalid information. The TIP will be closed after validation by the
              AMC/A3.
8                                                 AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


       2.2.1.4.1.3. After the working groups have decided on disposition, they will
       prioritize all new and existing TIPs and Action Items. Each Chair will assign
       an OPR and Office of Coordinating Responsibility (OCR) (as necessary).
       OPRs will manage the development of any documentation (test request, AF
       Form 847, etc.) for assigned TIP or Action Item. They will also act as a point
       of contact until the TIP is closed or reassigned to another OPR. OCRs are
       personnel or organizations that contribute to the TIP or Action Item through
       the TD cycle (i.e. AMC/A3V for an AF Form 847 associated with an AFI 11-
       2-MDS Vol 3). As a minimum, TD will act as an OCR for TIP/Action Item
       management.
       2.2.1.4.1.4. Test Requests. Normally MDS and MA working groups will
       draft test requests. TD and/or an AMCTES representative will guide the
       working groups through the drafting process and provide guidance when
       required to complete a request.
       2.2.1.4.1.5. TPL.      The TPL contains all TIPs (new and existing)
       recommended for testing by the AMC/A3 in prioritized order. The TPL is
       updated during the MAF TRB by the working group Chairs prior to the
       AMC/A3 Outbrief. All Chairs will meet with TD, MAF Tactics and EW CoE
       and AMC/A3D to determine an overall TPL. The AMC/A3D will be the final
       decision authority for any disputed items.
       2.2.1.4.1.6. AMC/A3 Outbrief. Tactics Development will run the A3
       Outbrief and brief the recommended TPL. Each MDS and Mission Area
       Chair will brief their recommendations. The AMC/A3 will determine final
       TIP disposition and validate the TPL during the outbrief. If the AMC/A3
       requires more information to make the determination or validate the TPL,
       Tactics Development (or designated representative) will debrief the AMC/A3
       within 30 days with the required information.
    2.2.1.4.2. Immediate TIP Process. TIPs may be submitted at any time to Tactics
    Development. AMC/A3D or Commander, MAF Tactics and EW CoE will make
    final determination if a TIP requires immediate action. If that determination is
    made, the TIP will run through the Immediate TIP Process.
       2.2.1.4.2.1. TIP Working Group. Upon determination that a TIP requires
       immediate attention, TD will form a TIP working group and assign a working
       group Chair. To expedite the process, working group members will normally
       consist of HQ AMC Staff, selected MDS Weapons Officers (or tactics
       experts) and a representative from Air Mobility Command Test and
       Evaluation Squadron (AMCTES) OL-G. The working group may make
       recommendations via conference, video teleconference, teleconference, or
       electronic channels (i.e. email, electronic bulletin board, CoP, etc.).
       Recommendations for disposition remain the same as the MAF TRB Process
       (Concur, Concur w/Intent, Non-concur). Once recommendations are made,
       the working group will draft any required test request or documentation.
       2.2.1.4.2.2. TPL. Anytime the working group recommends testing for an
       immediate TIP, they will also reprioritize the TPL.
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                      9


               2.2.1.4.2.3. TD will route the TIP disposition and TPL recommendation to
               AMC/A3 via AMC/A3D. If required, the working group chair (or designated
               representative) will brief the AMC/A3 on the TIP disposition and TPL
               recommendation.
        2.2.1.5. TD&E Recommendations. TD will draft a message from AMC/A3D to
        AMC/TE that includes all new test requests and any changes to existing test requests.
        The message will be submitted when the TPL is validated by the AMC/A3. This
        ensures that AMC/TE has the latest information and priorities from the MAF tactics
        community.
     2.2.2. Tasking and Planning. AMC/TE will assign a Test Director for all TD&Es.
     TD&Es should be assigned to AMCTES OL-G to take advantage of co-location with the
     MAF Tactics and EW CoE and TD. A Tactics SME will be assigned by the MAF Tactics
     and EW CoE for each TD&E. If no Tactics SME resides on staff at the MAF Tactics and
     EW CoE, then one will be assigned from either AMC/A3D or an outside organization.
     The representative will provide a Tactics SME in the development of the test plan. The
     SME and the Test Director will coordinate with other members of the Integrated Test
     Team (ITT) to ensure the TD&E objectives will be met.
        2.2.2.1. Integrated Test Team (ITT). The AMC/TE Test Manager establishes an ITT
        when a test is ready for ordering and planning. The objective of many TD&Es will
        be to develop TTPs that take advantage of new technologies or in response to
        adversary TTPs. Therefore, TD must work closely with OL-G to ensure the test plans
        are written with this objective in mind.
        2.2.2.2. The Test Director is responsible for drafting the test plan and coordinating
        the final report; the Test Manager is responsible for coordinating assets and resources
        for test execution.
        2.2.2.3. The Tactics SME drafts initial TTPs for the TD&E and ensures a method
        exists in the test plan to further develop TTPs during test execution. The Tactics SME
        also drafts initial training materials, i.e. training guides and power point slide shows,
        if required.
        2.2.2.4. AMC/A3T validates initial training plans/syllabi. If AMC/A3T requests
        evaluation of training syllabi as a test objective, then AMC/A3T will draft the initial
        training plan/syllabi in coordination with the Tactics SME.
     2.2.3. Execution. TD&E may be executed using any number of different MAF
     resources. If possible, the MAF Tactics and EW CoE will participate in all TD&Es.
     Appropriate units will be tasked for those TD&E that cannot be executed at the CoE.
     TD&E execution is managed by the Test Director. TD will track each test throughout the
     execution process. The Tactics SME will provide expertise during the test to ensure all
     tactical objectives are met. During the TD&E, the Tactics SME in coordination with the
     Test Director may alter the initial TTP as required to meet the test objectives.
     2.2.4. Reporting and Dissemination. Reporting and dissemination begins with the
     publishing of the test reports.
10                                                           AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


         2.2.4.1. All test reports generated from TIPs will be sent to TD for initial evaluation.
         Upon receipt, TD will assign an OPR for the analysis process. If required, the OPR
         will create a reporting and dissemination working group.
         2.2.4.2. Reporting and Dissemination Working Group. The working group will
         normally consist of tactics representatives from MAJCOMs, USAF Warfare Center
         (USAFWC), and Wing/Operations Group (WG/OG) levels. The working group may
         conduct business via conference, teleconference, or electronically. The working
         group will analyze the test report and make recommendations. Recommendations
         include standard implementation, immediate implementation, invalid results and
         unsuitable results.
            2.2.4.2.1. Standard Implementation.         Routine results will normally be
            disseminated via the standard implementation method. This includes submission
            to the 561st JTS through a tactics bulletin or through the next applicable AFTTP
            rewrite conference. The results are validated at USAFWC and AMC/A3 level via
            the normal tactics bulletin or AFTTP rewrite process. Once the tactics bulletin or
            AFTTP is released, the TIP will be closed.
            2.2.4.2.2. Immediate Implementation. Results that make an immediate impact to
            combat operations will be disseminated via the immediate implementation
            method. Normally, this includes submission to the 561st JTS through the flash
            bulletin or interim change procedures. Once posted on the 561st JTS website
            (https://wwwmil.nellis.af.mil/units/561jts), AMC/A3D will initiate a Flight
            Crew Information File (FCIF) with applicable instructions. Other methods of
            dissemination include via tactics conferences, tactics road shows, special interest
            items (SII), tactics read files, and G060 (tactics training). These methods of
            dissemination require AMC/A3D validation. Once the results are implemented
            (FCIF, SII, etc.), the originating TIP will be closed.
            2.2.4.2.3. Invalid Results. Invalid results signify that the test report outcome
            does not answer some or all of the required tactical objectives or result in new
            questions requiring answers.        Tactical objectives answered may still be
            disseminated via standard or immediate implementation methods; however, a new
            test request will be drafted for any objectives not answered using normal test
            request submission procedures. The originating TIP will not be closed until all
            tactical objectives are met or a new TIP is submitted in its place.
            2.2.4.2.4. Unsuitable Results. Unsuitable results denote that the test report
            outcome does not change existing or create new TTPs. Unsuitable results will be
            briefed (via conference, teleconference, or electronically) to the AMC/A3. Once
            the results are briefed, the originating TIP will be closed.
  2.3. TIP Closeout Procedures.
     2.3.1. All approved TIPs will be considered open until all required action is complete. A
     TIP will be closed when the tactical objectives of the TIP have been answered and meet
     the above implementation criteria. TIPs resulting in actions items will be closed after
     AMC/A3 signature (Concur w/Intent) and be tracked via action item channels.
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                    11


      2.3.2. Disposition Changes. TIPs that require a disposition change (deletion, combine
      with existing TIP or TD&E) require AMC/A3 approval for action and closure. TD will
      submit a new disposition recommendation and action via MAF TRB outbrief or E-SSS
      from AMC/A3D (coordination) to the AMC/A3 for approval. Upon approval, the TIP
      will be closed once the required action has been completed.
      2.3.3. TIP Closeout Memo. TIP Closeout Memos will be created for all approved TIPs
      that have met closeout requirements or any TIP that has had a disposition change
      resulting in closure. TD will prepare the closeout memo which will contain a brief
      summary of action taken to close the TIP (see Attachment 5). The closeout memo will be
      posted on the CoP and notification of TIP completion will be sent to the affected units. A
      copy of the closeout memo will also be sent to the unit that initiated the TIP. The TIP,
      closeout memo, and all related documentation will be filed and maintained for 10 years.
   2.4. Action Items.
      2.4.1. Definition. An Action Item is a TIP submission that does not meet the TIP
      criteria, has an established process operated by another directorate, and has a potential
      impact on tactics effectiveness. Examples include: procurement of equipment/systems
      which will enhance situational awareness in the threat environment or proposed changes
      to an AFTTP or AFI that could expand or limit tactical employment.
      2.4.2. There is no submission processes for Action Items. They are the result of ideas
      submitted through the TIP process due to the tactics interest in the idea (i.e. TIP
      submissions designated as Concur with Intent / Action Item by AMC/A3).
      2.4.3. TD will ensure action items are submitted to the appropriate channel, (e.g. AF
      Form 1067, AF Form 847, etc.).
      2.4.4. TD will track the action item internally to provide advocacy when necessary as it
      works its way through the appropriate staff process. The originating TIP control number
      will be used for tracking purposes.
      2.4.5. TD is NOT responsible for processing and reporting progress of Action Items.
      That will be done through the established processes of the responsible directorate. Action
      Items progress and results may be posted on the CoP if deemed appropriate to assist in
      timely dissemination of information to tactics units.
      2.4.6. Action Items will be closed once the process is complete and any supporting
      documents will be maintained in the TD files.
3. Electronic Warfare Development.
   3.1. General. This chapter addresses the roles and responsibilities pertaining to EW
   development in AMC. AMC does not develop or train electronic warfare officers (EWOs)
   within the command except in a limited number of HQ positions. AMC does not influence
   the AF level training of electronic warfare officers; instead EWOs employed by the MAF are
   trained through AFSOC or ACC. Due to this limitation, EW development in the MAF is
   unique and requires separate, focused attention and subject matter expertise. This expertise
   is derived from a team built from across the AMC staff and includes AFSOC ECSF and the
   MAF Tactics and EW CoE. Within control of the MAF, the team is built from the following
   offices and disciplines:
12                                                        AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


     3.1.1. AMC/A3. Overall responsibility is to organize, train, equip and provide EW
     enabling capability to MAF aircrews to accomplish assigned missions. Offices in
     AMC/A3 with primary responsibility of providing EW capability to MAF aircrews are:
        3.1.1.1. AMC/A3D - Combat Operations Division. The Command Electronic
        Warfare Officer (EWO) is assigned to AMC/A3D and functional operations lead for
        MAJCOM EW initiatives lies within the division. Personnel assigned to EW
        activities in AMC/A3D will be a trained EWO or equivalent as determined by
        AMC/A3. AMC/A3D develops AMC EW policy and determines EW requirements.
        AMC/A3D also identifies EW system deficiencies, provides inputs to update
        requirements documents, and takes action to correct deficiencies.
           3.1.1.1.1. Specific Responsibilities.   As the MAF focal point for combat
           operations, AMC/A3D will:
               3.1.1.1.1.1. Provide mission data (MD) updates. Determine the need and
               suitability of mission data software updates. Will act as a focal point to
               develop and coordinate changes among the affected aircraft MDS program
               offices, EW system program offices and HQ AMC Staff. If necessary,
               AMC/A3D will provide training materials, concepts of employment, in-flight
               guides (IFG) and instructions on the use of the system.
               3.1.1.1.1.2. Schedule a MAF EW Conference. MAF EW conference is
               optional but is used to further the goals of EW in the MAF. AMC/A3D will
               develop the agenda and determine location for the meeting when this
               conference is deemed necessary. Desired attendees should be Gp/Wg
               tacticians, AMC, NGB, AFRC, AATTC, Air National Guard Air Force
               Reserve Test Center, A3(D/T), A4(M), A5(Q), TE, USAFWS, USAFWC.
               3.1.1.1.1.3. Form Defensive Systems (DS) Integrated Product Teams (IPT).
               The DS IPT will discuss and resolve specific EW issues of interest to the
               MAF. The IPT will meet at regular intervals determined by AMC/A3D, but
               not more than four (4) times per year. The core DS includes AMC/A3,
               AMC/TE/TES, MAF Tactics and EW CoE and AFSOC ECSF. AMC/A3D
               may task outside agencies to participate in the IPT as required.
               3.1.1.1.1.4. Oversee TD. AMC/A3D is the focal point for TD in the MAF.
               There is a close bond between EW systems through technology insertion and
               improved tactical mission capability. AMC/A3D will bridge the gap between
               technology insertion and tactics development and facilitate technical/tactical
               fielding in direct coordination with the AATTC TD and the MAF Tactics and
               EW CoE.
               3.1.1.1.1.5. Provide EW leadership through the office of the Command EWO.
               The Command EWO will:
                3.1.1.1.1.5.1. Provide an annual munitions and expendables forecast for
                operational expendables used by mobility aircraft
                3.1.1.1.1.5.2. Manage the MAF EW program IAW AFI 10-703, Electronic
                Warfare Integrated Reprogramming.
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                 13


                 3.1.1.1.1.5.3. Interface with MAJCOM, DOD, industry and academic
                 agencies to further EW capabilities to enable worldwide missions of the
                 MAF.
                 3.1.1.1.1.5.4. Direct and approve the use of operational and training EW
                 software and mission data by units for training, exercises, and operational
                 missions.
                 3.1.1.1.1.5.5. Oversee operational and exercise EW system reprogramming
                 efforts.
        3.1.1.2. AMC/A3T – Training. AMC/A3T has overall responsibility for identifying
        and developing EW training to satisfy all levels of aircrew training from
        familiarization to mission employment.
           3.1.1.2.1. Specific Responsibilities.   As the MAF focal point for training,
           AMC/A3T will:
               3.1.1.2.1.1. Serve as OPR for aircrew training devices, maintain configuration
               commensurate with current/fielded EW aircraft systems.
               3.1.1.2.1.2. Develop, coordinate and review ground and airborne EW training
               programs in coordination with A3D as determined at Realistic Training
               Review Board (RTRB).
               3.1.1.2.1.3. Ensure EW training requirements are incorporated in applicable
               publications to include course syllabi and AFI 10/11-series publications.
               3.1.1.2.1.4. Ensure part-task trainers, aircrew training devices, and threat
               simulators (as available) are integrated into a cohesive EW training system.
               Ensure requirements for new simulators and other training devices include
               EW equipment and manpower.
               3.1.1.2.1.5. Provide an annual munitions and expendables forecast for
               training expendables used by mobility aircraft.
        3.1.1.3. AMC/A3V – Standardization and Evaluation. AMC/A3V has overall
        responsibility to ensure standardization of EW system employment installed on MAF
        aircraft.
           3.1.1.3.1. Specific Responsibilities. As the MAF focal point for standardization
           AMC/A3V will:
               3.1.1.3.1.1. Develop, maintain, and influence creation of standardized
               checklists and technical order guidance for use of EW equipment. This
               includes systems already fielded, systems being modified and systems under
               development.
     3.1.2. AMC/A4. Provides all command leadership for the sustainment of installed and
     modified EW equipment on MAF aircraft.
        3.1.2.1. Specific Responsibilities. As the MAF focal point for sustainment, AMC/A4
        will:
14                                                        AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


            3.1.2.1.1. Manage expendable allocations for AMC and AMC-gained units.
            Provide a continuing maintenance capability to support unit allocation of EW
            equipment to include deployed and bare base operations.
               3.1.2.1.1.1. Work closely with AMC/A3D to provide accurate forecast of
               operational munitions/expendable for MAF/MAF provided aircraft.
               3.1.2.1.1.2. Serve as OPR for Operational Flight Program (OFP) software
               updates and will ensure they are fielded in a timely manner. AMC/A3D is
               the AMC/A3 focal point for these changes. Under certain circumstances,
               AMC/A3D may field OFP updates IAW AFI 10-703. AMC/A3D may
               develop and submit operational change requests directly to the system
               program office as needed to field new capability or improvements. AMC/A4
               works closely with Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) and the
               aircraft/system program offices at Robins AFB for updates to installed MAF
               EW systems.
     3.1.3. AMC/A5. Acquires new EW equipment and systems for MAF aircraft.
        3.1.3.1. Specific Responsibilities.    As the MAF focal point for acquisition,
        AMC/A5Q will:
            3.1.3.1.1. Plan, program, and coordinate the introduction of EW equipment into
            the MAF inventory.
            3.1.3.1.2. Document EW system deficiencies and take corrective actions.
            3.1.3.1.3. Be lead directorate for acquisition and requirements definition of EW
            systems for airlift and air refueling major weapons systems.
            3.1.3.1.4. Develop, evaluate, and monitor Initial Capabilities Documents (ICD),
            Capability Development Documents (CDD), and Capabilities Production
            Documents (CPD) for AMC EW systems, support equipment, and EW
            simulation/training equipment.
            3.1.3.1.5. Maintain a point of contact for quick reaction capability to provide
            prompt action for MAF EW systems/support equipment.
  3.2. AFSOC ECSF, Robins AFB GA. AFSOC ECSF is the EW reprogramming center for
  the MAF. Through the AMC/AFSOC Command to Command Agreement, they will provide
  technical/engineering assessments as requested by AMC/A3D. They provide overall
  management of the MAF's reprogramming responsibilities on behalf of AMC/A3 to support
  the installed EW systems (i.e., ALR-69, ALR-56M, ALE-47, AAR-54, AAR-44, AAR-47,
  AAQ-24, etc) IAW AFI 10-703 guidance for conducting Electronic Warfare Integrated
  Reprogramming (EWIR). Additionally, they provide reprogramming support to the MAF's
  EW mission capable units during SERENE BYTE exercises and PACER WARE operations.
     3.2.1. Specific Responsibilities. As the MAF focal point for EW systems, ECSF:
        3.2.1.1. Advises AMC/A3 if defensive systems software certification meets
        operational requirements.
        3.2.1.2. Assists in the assessment or investigation of hostile fire incidents where EW
        systems are involved.
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                   15


         3.2.1.3. Produces and maintains EW system handbooks for AMC defensive systems
         equipment currently possessed. Handbooks produced for AFSOC on identical
         systems are suitable for AMC units. Handbooks will identify and explain installed
         system software (i.e., OFP, mission data file (MDF), etc.) at the user/operator level.
         3.2.1.4. Provides a budget estimate to HQ AMC POC annually or at such a time as
         required by AMC to procure support funding.
         3.2.1.5. Hosts PACER WARE/SERENE BYTE (PW/SB). ECSF will host MAF
         software on the AF Bulletin Board and maintain current MAF/MAF-gained unit
         addresses for the dissemination of PW and SB information. Include AMC/A3/A4 and
         applicable subordinate units as addressees on all PW/SB threat impact messages, new
         data messages, and other messages affecting the EW systems.
         3.2.1.6. Supports defensive systems tests through development and installation of
         test-specific OFP/MDF as required.
  3.3. MAF Tactics and EW CoEs. The MAF Tactics and EW CoE are located in St. Joseph,
  MO. This organization’s role is to advise AMC/A3D on all matters pertaining to EW
  systems, present and future, and to advise on needed technical improvements to the EW
  capabilities required to make the MAF missions effective in a combat environment. The
  MAF Tactics and EW CoE staff makeup is unique in that continuity, operational experience,
  and close association with industry and other development, educational, and test agencies
  allows them to maintain the only continuous influence on EW development from concept
  through combat employment. This capability is a force enabler/multiplier for other aspects
  of EW development, providing critical operational input for the EW development team.
     3.3.1. Qualifications.
         3.3.1.1. Personnel assigned must attend advanced EW training, such as Georgia Tech
         Research Institute Radar and Infrared courses, and they must be a CATS-MECOC
         graduate. They must possess a thorough understanding of EW systems’ theory of
         operation enabling development and analysis of mission employment from which
         TTPs are developed. And they must develop and maintain relationships through
         various conferences and meetings with: MAJCOM, Industry, Academia, system
         program offices (SPOs) and Cross-service (DOD).
     3.3.2. Specific Responsibilities. As the MAF focal point for tactics and EW, MAF
     Tactics and EW CoE will:
         3.3.2.1. Attend EW meetings/conferences. Regular attendance at EW meetings is an
         integral part of the EW management in the MAF. Personnel assigned to the MAF
         Tactics and EW CoE will participate in the following meetings, if available: MAF
         EW Conference, EW IPTs (4/year), DS IPTs (year), Life Cycle Management Group
         (LCMG), Technical Advisory Group (TAG) (2/year), infrared (IR) and radar (RF)
         meetings managed by the System Program Offices (4/year). Additionally, personnel
         will support AFTTP 3-1 and 3-3 rewrite meetings, tactics conferences and other
         meetings focused on EW as appropriate.
         3.3.2.2. Provide operator training. CATS-MECOC is the premiere EW course in the
         MAF. The MAF Tactics and EW CoE develops mobility employment training for
 16                                                            AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


          installed MAF EW equipment and is responsible to ensure the CATS-MECOC
          courseware is accurate and up to date. Additionally, they will advise AMC/A3T,
          through AMC/A3D, on adequacy and provide recommendations for contractor
          developed initial training for EW systems. Develop CATS-MECOC syllabus in
          coordination with AMC/A3D. Meet annually with AMC/A3D to review and discuss
          current and future syllabus requirements.
          3.3.2.3. Support AMC EW testing as appropriate.
          3.3.2.4. Support situation awareness (SA) and countermeasure development. The
          MAF is engaged in advanced countermeasure technique and SA technology
          development for insertion in MAF platforms. The MAF Tactics and EW CoE are
          integral in the development of these technologies and will remain engaged from
          development through fielding and implementation. Specific tasking may include
          development of threat/employment scenarios for modeling or testing, Concept of
          Operations development and other tasks involved with EW development in the MAF.
          3.3.2.5. Develop, evaluate, and document EW employment tactics and techniques to
          maximize capabilities and mitigate limitations of EW systems. Reviews and proposes
          MAF EW tactics and tactical doctrine and procedures. Provide EW expertise for the
          tactics development process providing TIPs and Test Requests for EW systems. As
          required, MAF Tactics and EW CoE will develop Concepts of Employment for
          installed or fielding EW systems.
          3.3.2.6. Provide software development and sustainment. MAF Tactics and EW CoE
          will review and comment on software updates for EW systems in sustainment. OPR
          for employment training of EW equipment and TTPs (i.e. inflight guides (IFGs)) for
          EW equipment. MAF Tactics and EW CoE will review, develop, guide and assess
          MAF MDFs, mobility standard configuration loads (MSCLs) and IFGs, and provides
          area of responsibility (AOR) reachback/mission report (MISREP) review.
   3.4. Wing, Group, Squadron EW Functions, Roles and Responsibilities.
      3.4.1. Specific tasks for the Electronic Combat Officers are stated in AFI 10-703 and
      Chapter 4 of this publication.
4. Group and Squadron Weapons and Tactics Organizations, Roles and Responsibilities.
   4.1. General. This chapter addresses the roles and responsibilities of tactics programs at all
   levels to include qualifications, functions and responsibilities. Tactics application, mission
   planning, and the use of resource material are also defined. This chapter should be used in
   conjunction with Chapter 2 and AFI 11-260 when dealing with TIPs Tactics After Action
   Reports (TAARs), the TRB process, and MAF TD procedures. Additional responsibilities
   pertaining to specific weapons flight guidance and tactics leadership from the MAJCOM to
   the squadron level can be found in AFI 11-415, Weapons and Tactics Programs, and AFI 38-
   101, Air Force Organization.
      4.1.1. Commanders will assign the most tactically experienced personnel to perform
      functions described in this section. AFRC/A3, NGB/A3, NAFs, Wings and Groups may
      supplement this instruction to identify specific responsibilities for their tactics functions.
      Send supplements to AMC/A3D for review.
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                   17


     4.1.2. Group commanders shall appoint a Group Weapons and Tactics Flight
     Commander who selects additional personnel with the commander’s approval. The
     Group Weapons and Tactics Flight Commander (CC) will report directly to the
     Commander, Operations Support Squadron (OSS/CC) or Commander Operations Group
     (OG/CC). Squadron commanders shall appoint a Squadron Chief of Weapons and
     Tactics who selects additional personnel with the commander’s approval. The Squadron
     Chief of Weapons and Tactics will report directly to the squadron commander or
     operations officer.
     4.1.3. Commanders will empower the Group and Squadron Weapons and Tactics Flight
     Commanders with the manpower and tools necessary to accomplish the duties and
     responsibilities defined in section 4.2 and 4.3 of this instruction. Commanders should
     identify highly motivated, tactically oriented individuals early in their career and place
     them on a tactician track that includes instructor school, CATS-MECOC and the
     Weapons Instructor Course (WIC).
     4.1.4. The Group Weapons and Tactics Flight Commander will provide supervision and
     support to embedded 1T0X1 Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE)
     Specialists and ensure that the SERE Program is in compliance with AFI 16-1301
     AMCSUP 1, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape Program (if assigned).
  4.2. Organization.
     4.2.1. Group Weapons and Tactics Flight
         4.2.1.1. The Weapons and Tactics Flight CC at the Group or OSS level should be a
         Weapons Officer (WO). If not a WO, the chief will be a graduate of CATS-MECOC;
         and a WO will reside as a member of the flight. The WO requirement is not
         applicable if no wing MDS has an established WIC. The Weapons and Tactics Flight
         CC must be a current, fully qualified instructor commensurate with unit mission and
         must possess a Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (TS/SCI) clearance.
         Additional Group Weapons and Tactics Flight members will be WOs or graduates of
         CATS-MECOC and should have a TS/SCI security clearance.                  Additional
         information can be found in 4.2.3.
            4.2.1.1.1. (AFRC) The Wing/Group should make every effort to recruit a
            candidate to attend an established WIC. AFRC units without a WO require an
            annual waiver from AFRC/A3 (info copy AMC/A3D).
         4.2.1.2. The Group Weapons and Tactics Flight will consist of the Flight
         Commander, a minimum of two additional officers, and at least one non-
         commissioned officer (NCO). Wings with less than two operational squadrons may
         reduce to one additional officer and one NCO. The Flight must include a mission
         ready (MR) instructor aircrew member from each crew position assigned at that unit
         (i.e. pilot, navigator, loadmaster, flight engineer, boom operator). Members assigned
         to a formal training school will be instructors in their MDS and basic mission capable
         (BMC) or higher. Wings that have multiple MDS should have a WO from each MDS
         in the Group Tactics Flight. In addition, there will be representation for each crew
         position from each MDS. Exceptions are as follows:
18                                                       AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


           4.2.1.2.1. Operational Support Aircraft (OSA)/Very Important Person Special Air
           Mission (VIPSAM) units do not have to man their Tactics Flight with
           Communication System Operators or Flight Attendants. The Weapons and Tactics
           Flight CC will ensure there is a POC established within these two crew positions
           to address any tactics issues that may affect them. Additionally, VIPSAM units
           with similar airframes (such as the C-20, C-37 or the C-32, C-40) will only
           require one tactics officer per similar airframe. However, these tactics officers
           will still meet the requirements in paragraph 4.2.2.).
           4.2.1.2.2. Units that are assigned an Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) mission are
           not required to have an AE crew member assigned to the Group Weapons and
           Tactics Flight but the Weapons and Tactics Flight CC will ensure there is a POC
           established within the AE unit to address tactics or employment issues that may
           affect AE crew members.
           4.2.1.2.3. AFRC and ANG units will fill at least one of the tactics positions with
           a dedicated full-time position AFRC and ANG units without full-time tactics
           positions require a waiver from AFRC/A3 or NGB/A3 (info copy AMC/A3D) to
           fulfill tactics roles and responsibilities from positions within the existing unit
           manning document. AFRC, ANG, and associate units (if applicable) may
           consolidate Group Weapons and Tactics Flights and Squadron Weapons and
           Tactics flights into one flight at the OG/OSS level. Consolidated tactics offices
           should be located in the same building. However, there still must remain (as a
           minimum) one tactics officer in each operational squadron that meets the
           requirements outlined in 4.2.2.1. AFRC/ANG parent wings with active duty
           associate squadrons are not alleviated of the responsibility to provide an
           AFRC/ANG WO to the Group Weapons and Tactics Flight per paragraph 4.2.1.1.
        4.2.1.3. ECO and EW duties will be performed by a member of the Group Weapons
        and Tactics Flight and the Squadron Weapons and Tactics Flight IAW 4.2.3.2.
        Specific task responsibilities for the ECO are outlined in Chapter 2 of AFI 10-703.
        WIC, MECOC or CATS-MECOC graduates satisfy the AFI 11-415 requirements to
        perform the roles and functions of a MAF ECO.
        4.2.1.4. Personnel assigned to the Group Weapons and Tactics Flight should not be
        assigned any unrelated additional duties (NA for ANG/AFRC).
        4.2.1.5. If assigned, AMC SERE Specialists will be aligned under the Group
        Weapons and Tactics Flight, specifically the Chief of Weapons and Tactics. This
        individual will be known as the wing SERE specialist and is the sole SME on SERE
        and Personnel Recovery (PR) and should communicate the status of SERE operations
        and training to leadership. As such the Chief of Weapons and Tactics should support
        SERE budget, training and mission support to the maximum extent possible to
        include a quarterly OSS/CC SERE update on the status of operations and training.
     4.2.2. Squadron Weapons and Tactics Flight
        4.2.2.1. The Chief of Squadron Weapons and Tactics should be a WO. If not a WO,
        the chief will be a graduate of CATS-MECOC. In either case, the chief must be a
        current, qualified instructor and possess a TS/SCI clearance. The WO requirement is
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                   19


         not applicable if the MDS has no established WIC. For AFRC units reference
         paragraph 4.2.1.1.1 above.
         4.2.2.2. All squadron weapons and tactics flight members will be either WOs, CATS-
         MECOC graduates, or at a minimum, in Basic Aircrew Tactics Studies (BATS)
         training or complete. Flight members must be fully qualified and current in the unit
         mission or BMQ for FTU and should have a TS/SCI security clearance.
         4.2.2.3. There must be (as a minimum) one tactics officer in each operational
         squadron who meets the requirements outlined in paragraph 4.2.2.1. Units that have
         robust squadron-level tactics duties (i.e. mission planning requirements for C-130 and
         C-17 units) must have fully-manned squadron-level tactics flights consisting of, at a
         minimum, the chief, two additional officers (pilot or navigator) and a boom operator,
         flight engineer, or loadmaster. For AFRC/ANG and associate unit exceptions,
         reference paragraph 4.2.1.2.3 above.
     4.2.3. Grandfathering Guidance.
         4.2.3.1. USAFWS graduates are qualified to perform all tactician duties. Graduates
         of CATS prior to the establishment of a combined CATS-MECOC course are
         qualified to serve in any position that requires a CATS-MECOC graduate, except
         ECO position. Graduates of MECOC alone prior to the establishment of a combined
         CATS-MECOC course are not qualified to serve in a group position that requires a
         CATS-MECOC graduate.
         4.2.3.2. EW duties can only be performed by a USAFWS graduate, CATS-MECOC
         graduate, or MECOC graduate.
         4.2.3.3. Graduates of the AATTC Aircrew Flying Course alone are not qualified to
         fill a billet that requires a USAFWS or CATS-MECOC graduate.
  4.3. Roles and Responsibilities.
     4.3.1. Group Weapons and Tactics Flight will:
         4.3.1.1. Administration
             4.3.1.1.1. Coordinate the necessary facilities for the Weapons and Tactics Flight
             and Intel, where they should operate in a co-located and secure environment in the
             same building, preferably operate together in a secure vault. Ensure permanent
             Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) access and classified storage
             is present within Squadron Weapons and Tactics Flights.
             4.3.1.1.2. Ensure SERE Specialists have adequate facilities to conduct
             SERE/Personnel Recovery (PR) related duties to include SIPRNET access and
             classified storage. Make certain that SERE Specialists have an adequate budget
             to meet all Wing SERE/PR related duties, maintain required parachute
             proficiency and skill progression, attend all required refresher training, and are
             assigned Mission Essential Personnel (MEP) status IAW AFI 16-1301 AMCSUP
             1.
             4.3.1.1.3. Inform the Wing/Group Commander of USAFWS issues; mentor and
             recommend prospective weapons school and CATS-MECOC applicants.
20                                                   AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


     Coordinate any necessary waivers through AMC/A3DT for AMC/A3 approval.
     For additional guidance, reference AFI 11-415.
     4.3.1.1.4. Establish continuous dialog with other bases/units, Weapons Schools,
     and MAJCOM staff. This ―cross-talk‖ should also occur among tactics flights of
     differing MDSs.
     4.3.1.1.5. Ensure Dissemination of Tactics Information. Weapons and Tactics
     Officers will refer to appropriate publications, message traffic, and the AMC/A3D
     classified and unclassified websites/CoPs for information on how to organize a
     tactics flight, essential tactics information for aircrews, and for valuable lessons
     learned. AMC/A3D will update its website semi-annually to ensure accuracy of
     data. Data for this website will come from the USAFWS and Weapons and
     Tactics Flights across the MAF. AMC/A3D encourages Weapons and Tactics
     Officers to actively participate in sharing information that can be posted on the
     websites for the rest of the MAF to use. Send inputs to the appropriate AMC/A3D
     MDS functionals via AMC/A3DT Tactics AMC.A3DT@scott.af.mil. The
     AMC/A3D           unclassified      CoP     website      can     be     found     at:
     https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/amccombatops. The classified website can be found
     at: http://afkm.wrightpatterson.af.smil.mil/amccombatops.
     4.3.1.1.6. Submit a semi-annual personnel report via memorandum for record
     signed by the OG/CC or representative to AMC/A3DT via upload to the
     AMC/A3D unclassified CoP (reference section 4.3.1.1.5). (AFRC units will send
     information to AFRC/A3T.) This report will identify all individuals in the Group
     Weapons and Tactics Flight and Squadron Weapons and Tactics Flight/s, formal
     tactics training status of each member (completion of Weapons School, CATS-
     MECOC, etc), and any personnel vacancies within that flight. Include
     unclassified and classified e-mail and phone numbers of all individuals and
     organizational accounts. Organizational e-mail accounts must be created for each
     Weapons and Tactics flight. This report will be used to keep a list of Weapons
     and Tactics Officers within the MAF to increase connectivity and maximize AMC
     support for unit level tactics.
     4.3.1.1.7. Represent unit at tactics and related conferences (MAF Weapons and
     Tactics Conference/Realistic Training Review Board (WEPTAC/RTRB), AATTC
     symposium, Air Mobility Tactics Analysis Team (AMTAT), etc.) and appropriate
     publication rewrite conferences (i.e. AFTTP 3-1 and 3-3) with the proper
     personnel (officer and enlisted) to effectively address tactical issues for every
     aircrew position represented.
     4.3.1.1.8. Perform publications and technical order reviews and recommend
     changes when appropriate.
     4.3.1.1.9. Identify individuals for nomination to the OSS/CC for quarterly and
     annual awards and OG/CC for annual tactics awards (e.g., Mobility Combat
     Operations Awards, Air Mobility Warrior Award, etc) IAW AMCI 36-2806,
     Director of Operations Award Program Management.
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                   21


       4.3.1.2. Mission Support
          4.3.1.2.1. The Group Weapons and Tactics Flight must ensure that group and
          squadron weapons and tactics personnel enhance unit readiness to accomplish its
          combat mission. Consider duties not directly related to this purpose as secondary.
          4.3.1.2.2. Coordinate directly with unit intelligence for threat analysis support for
          all missions transiting threat locations.
          4.3.1.2.3. Work closely with intelligence offices; optimize current tactics and
          procedures to accomplish unit mission. Ensure intel programs, crew training and
          briefings support current operations, tactics objectives and training.
          4.3.1.2.4. Report to the group commander on issues affecting tactical capabilities
          and make recommendations for improvement.
          4.3.1.2.5. Ensure each squadron has the capabilities and resources necessary to
          deploy and plan tactical employment in support of its mission. Provide briefings
          prior to combat employment per AMC Operation Order (OPORD) (located at
          http://www.amc.scott.af.smil.mil) and/or Aviation Unit Preparation Messages
          (AUPM) (located at http://www.nellis.af.smil.mil/units/561jts). Maintain
          required materials and equipment to deploy and plan tactical employment portions
          of exercises, contingencies, and combat missions. This includes, but is not limited
          to, computer-based mission planning employment platforms such as Air Force
          Mission Support Systems (AFMSS), Combat Track II (CTII), and related charts,
          etc (as applicable). Designed Operational Capabilities (DOC) statements,
          Mission Capability Statements (MISCAPS), tactics Unit Type Codes (UTC), and
          associated Logistics Force Packaging System (LOGFOR) should be reviewed
          regularly to ensure unit readiness.
          4.3.1.2.6. Ensure one tactics officer deploys with the unit for initial setup of wing
          operations at a deployed location during all contingency or wartime operations—
          exercise and real world (reference Chapter 5 for more information).
          4.3.1.2.7. Ensure unit aircrew members have access to tactics library and
          publications relevant to the unit’s mission.
          4.3.1.2.8. Ensure AMC airlift units review landing zone surveys, perform safety
          of flight reviews, and recommend approval or disapproval IAW AFI 13-217,
          Drop Zone and Landing Zone Operations. Safety of flight review consists of
          thorough chart analysis of the objective area with particular emphasis on the
          approach and escape corridors.
          4.3.1.2.9. Where applicable, comply with Air Force Joint Instruction (AFJI) 13-
          210, Joint Airdrop Inspection (JAI) Records, Malfunction/Incidents, Investigation
          and Activity Reporting and its MAJCOM supplement.
          4.3.1.2.10. Develop, publish, and update local OPORDs, Memorandums of
          Agreement (MOAs), Letters of Agreement (LOAs), Operating Instructions (OIs),
          and tactical flimsies as required for unit tactical employment and training.
          4.3.1.2.11. Assist deploying units in the development of combat mission folders
          (CMF) or tactical flimsies.
22                                                   AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


     4.3.1.2.12. Provide a working group member to the wing military
     deception/signature management program; member should not serve as the Wing
     Military Deception Officer (MDO).
     4.3.1.2.13. Maintain adequate chart inventories by coordinating with unit
     intelligence and squadron weapons and tactics sections. This can be kept
     electronically via AFMSS. For Squadrons having standing current operations
     flights that maintain electronic charts via AFMSS, the Chief, Wing/ Group
     Weapons and Tactics will verify this information has been updated by the
     appropriate agency and is current. Note: Responsibility for flying with the correct
     chart coverage still rests with the aircraft commander.
     4.3.1.2.14. Establish a Tactics Read File which contains classified and
     unclassified materials of timely interest to the aircrews. Read file should include
     messages, analysis of tactical employment operations in current contingencies and
     exercises, TAARs, Flash Bulletins, Tactics Bulletins, etc. Ensure the Tactics
     Read File propagates to Squadron Tactics Flights, is kept current, and is reviewed
     by aircrew for applicability to the unit mission (once per quarter at a minimum;
     Group Weapons and Tactics may direct a greater frequency to ensure unit mission
     accomplishment). Maintain records to ensure compliance.
     4.3.1.2.15. Serve as OPR or focal point for all matters pertaining to:
        4.3.1.2.15.1. Theater operations, including pre-deployment requirements per
        the AMC OPORD (located at http://www.amc.scott.af.smil.mil) and AOR
        spin-up training as mandated via 561st JTS guidance (located at
        http://www.nellis.af.smil.mil/units/561jts).
        4.3.1.2.15.2. Aerial delivery procedures (as applicable).
        4.3.1.2.15.3. Munitions, defensive systems, data link, and situational
        awareness equipment and operational procedures.
        4.3.1.2.15.4. Electronic mission planning systems and procedures (Portable
        Flight Planning Software(PFPS)/Falconview, Joint Precision Airdrop System
        (JPADS), CTII, etc).
        4.3.1.2.15.5. Air and Space Operations Center (AOC), Wing, Group and
        Squadron mission planning staffs, functions, and current/best practices.
        4.3.1.2.15.6. Air Force Joint Airdrop Inspector (AFJAI) duties and
        responsibilities (as applicable).
          4.3.1.2.15.6.1. Ensure all unit aircrew members are knowledgeable of the
          AFJAI, Malfunction Officer, and aircrew member guidelines outlined in
          AFJI 13-210.
        4.3.1.2.15.7. Airdrop malfunction and investigation (as applicable).
          4.3.1.2.15.7.1. Ensure the Command Post (CP) reports Off-Drop-Zone
          and/or Malfunction Reports IAW AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, and
          AFI 13-217. Refer to Attachment 6 for an example of an Off-Drop-Zone
          report.
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                23


              4.3.1.2.15.7.2. Where applicable, ensure airdrop units report and investigate
              incidents, chair malfunction review panels, and submit monthly reports in
              accordance with AFI 13-217 and AFJI 13-210, as supplemented.
             4.3.1.2.15.8. Electronic Warfare.
              4.3.1.2.15.8.1. Conduct the group/wing EW program (not applicable to
              MDSs without defensive systems). A continuity book will be developed and
              maintained to allow seamless assumption of duties due to deployments or
              permanent change of station.
              4.3.1.2.15.8.2. Act as the focal point for EWIR procedures in accordance
              with AFI 10-703. Develop and implement local procedures for alerting
              appropriate personnel of reprogramming changes and for coordinating and
              implementing those changes.
              4.3.1.2.15.8.3. Identify, consolidate, and monitor all deficiencies particular
              to EW. Report any deficiencies in EW equipment or normal operational
              procedures to AMC/A3D.
              4.3.1.2.15.8.4. Coordinate with AMC/A3T to forecast training chaff and
              flare requirements. Reference para 3.1.1.1.1.5 for operational flare
              requirements.
              4.3.1.2.15.8.5. Manage and establish guidelines and directives governing
              procedures, training, and administration of EW programs. Guidance will
              include applicable training, tactics development, and employment in
              accordance with AFI 11-2MDS volume sets and this instruction.
              4.3.1.2.15.8.6. Maintain an EW addendum to the Tactics Reference Library
              containing applicable manuals, regulations, tests, EWIR message traffic and
              Inspector General (IG) reports and provide periodic listings of available
              reference documents to unit members, instructors, and maintenance
              personnel.
              4.3.1.2.15.8.7. Conduct periodic meetings to coordinate EW efforts with
              operations, maintenance, and intelligence personnel.
              4.3.1.2.15.8.8. Reference AFI 10-703 and ensure AMC and Electronic
              Combat Support Flight (ECSF) and/or organizational accounts are updated
              with current points of contact for EWIR (PW/SB) message traffic and data.
              Maintain PW Defense Messaging System account in accordance with AFI
              10-703.
              4.3.1.2.15.8.9. Ensure unit electromagnetic interference (EMI) incidents are
              investigated and reported. Accomplish reports in accordance with AFI 10-
              707, Spectrum Interference Resolution Program and coordinate with the
              installation spectrum manager.
             4.3.1.2.15.9. Ensure that SERE Specialists are the SMEs and directly
             responsible for all PR related functions including but not limited to Wing
             Isolated Personnel Report (ISOPREP) Manager, Personnel Recovery Kits,
             Evasion and Recovery Kits, Evasion Plan of Actions, and Blood Chit Monitor.
24                                                     AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


            SERE Specialists are a high demand low density asset. SERE Specialists
            should coordinate a Memorandum of Agreement with Operations, aircrew
            flight equipment, and/or Intelligence for 24/7 support of all PR related
            functions. Personnel providing PR operational support must be qualified IAW
            AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape.
              4.3.1.2.15.9.1. Make certain that SERE Specialists provide SERE/PR
              guidance to High Risk of Isolation personnel during all real world and
              exercise contingency operations (OPLAN, 8010, deployments, all missions
              transiting threat locations, etc). SERE/PR related information will be
              included in Tactics briefings to the maximum extent possible (if assigned).
     4.3.1.3. Training.
        4.3.1.3.1. Ensure all unit aircrews understand tactics included in AFI 11-2 MDS
        series, Volume 3 publications, and appropriate volumes of AFTTP 3-1 and 3-3.
        4.3.1.3.2. Attend all Standardization and Evaluation Boards (SEBs) to identify
        employment trends and deficiencies.
        4.3.1.3.3. Work with current operations, intelligence, training, AMC/A3D, 561st
        JTS, and respective Weapons School to develop a successful tactics training
        program. Maximize opportunities for realistic and productive aircrew training
        (JFEX, JA/ATT, Multilateral Training Opportunities, Red Flag, Green Flag,
        AATTC Flying Course, Weapons School Mission Employment, MAFEX, EW
        Range Missions, etc).
        4.3.1.3.4. Manage instruction of operating parameters and              appropriate
        countermeasures and/or countertactics for threat weapon systems.
        4.3.1.3.5. Review specialized tactics training programs (e.g., defensive systems,
        combat aircrew training, etc.) and conduct tactical employment training (G060)
        IAW 11-2MDS V1 requirements in cooperation with Intelligence (G070).
        4.3.1.3.6. Review and validate BATS implementation.
        4.3.1.3.7. Ensure that squadrons receive monthly (bi-monthly for ANG and
        AFRC) tactical operations briefs. Complete in conjunction with unit intelligence.
        Briefs should include AFTTP 3-1.MDS information, new Flash Bulletin or
        Tactics Bulletins, or current tactics used in the AOR.
        4.3.1.3.8. Disseminate tactics hot topics (cross-talk) throughout the unit via read
        file and ensure tactical employment hangar flying sessions are conducted
        quarterly (AOR lessons learned, emerging TTPs, etc). Commanders should
        encourage maximum participation/attendance at these events.
        4.3.1.3.9. Develop realistic tactics instruction for incorporation into Wing, Group
        and Squadron training programs IAW MDS-specific AFI 11-series, Volume 1,
        training publications.
        4.3.1.3.10. Act as unit focal point for Flag, Joint/Coalition Exercises, Weapons
        School Mission Employment (ME), and Mobility Air Forces Exercises
        (MAFEX). Ensure that a tactician attends all planning conferences (initial
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                       25


          planning conference (IPC), final planning conference (FPC), etc) preceding unit
          involvement to secure/validate desired training objectives.
          4.3.1.3.11. Lead efforts and actively participate in preparing mission packages to
          support aircrews flying local, exercise, and operational tactical missions (as
          required).
          4.3.1.3.12. Monitor subordinate unit tactical training programs. Ensure training,
          mission materials, and procedures encourage employment of sound tactics.
          Request annual Staff Assistance Visits (SAVs), if required, to ensure unit tactics
          offices and programs are in compliance with applicable regulations, and
          Wing/Group guidance.
          4.3.1.3.13. Coordinate requirements for EW clearances and aircraft equipment
          configurations with staff agencies for EW training programs.
          4.3.1.3.14. Ensure that Weapons and Tactics assigned SERE Specialists are
          responsible for training and coordination of all Code of Conduct Continuation
          Training blocks of instruction (i.e. Combat Survival Training, Water Survival
          Training, etc). These blocks of instruction are designated by the letters ―SS‖ and
          are the Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS) Training Event
          Identifiers found in Table 2.3 of the AFI 16-1301 AMCSUP 1.
       4.3.1.4. Tactics Development
          4.3.1.4.1. Solicit inputs for revisions to AFTTP 3-1 and 3-3 volumes using the
          TIP process and forward TIPs appropriately (reference Chapter 2 and AFI 11-260
          for further detailed guidance).
          4.3.1.4.2. Collect TAARs and submit appropriately (reference Chapter 2 and AFI
          11-260). Observe and/or analyze unit performance during tactical missions and
          report to the OG/CC on any issues affecting tactical capabilities.
          4.3.1.4.3. Establish a unit TRB to review tactics and the unit’s ability to apply
          them. Units are required to hold a TRB semi-annually (recommend completion by
          1 March and 1 September). It is highly encouraged for units to hold their TRBs in
          conjunction with their unit Realistic Training Review Panels (TRPs) and SEBs;
          the TRB will include SERE/PR representation when applicable. Units will keep
          TRB minutes via Memorandum For Record (MFR) and post a copy of this memo,
          along with any TIPs on the MAF TD classified and unclassified CoP. Refer to
          Chapter 2 and AFI 11-260 for an in-depth review of the TIP/TRB process.
             4.3.1.4.3.1. Group Weapons and Tactics will review reports for accuracy and
             submit recommendations not later than 45 calendar days after completion of
             the event. Submit after-action reports and classify appropriately.
             4.3.1.4.3.2. Submit unclassified reports to tactics.development@ang.af.mil
             with a courtesy copy to AMC/A3DT Tactics AMC.A3DT@scott.af.mil,
             afrc.dot@afrc.af.mil, and ngb.a3om@ang.af.mil.
             4.3.1.4.3.3. Submit classified reports to tactics.development@ang.af.smil.mil, with
             a courtesy copy to dot.afrc@afrc.robins.af.smil.mil, amc.A3KT@scott.af.smil.mil.
26                                                         AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


               4.3.1.4.3.4. MAF Tactics and EW CoE TD, AMC/A3D, NGB, and HQ
               AFRC will analyze the data to identify areas requiring tactics development,
               lessons learned, and publication changes. MAF Tactics and EW CoE TD will
               publish the findings.
               4.3.1.4.3.5. Units access information from the database for planning current
               and future participation in exercises, TD, and operational deployments. MAF
               Tactics and EW CoE TD forwards this information directly to units upon
               written request via the medium indicated by the requester (written report, disk,
               or summary report format).
            4.3.1.4.4. Standardization and Evaluation
               4.3.1.4.4.1. Attend the SEB and work with Wing/Group Standardization and
               Evaluation to resolve tactical deficiencies identified during all applicable
               evaluations. This information will be used to focus development and/or
               improvement of tactical training programs.
     4.3.2. Squadron Weapons and Tactics Flight:
        4.3.2.1. Administration
            4.3.2.1.1. Provide direct interface between higher echelon tactics offices and
            aircrew members by maintaining a working relationship with Wing, Group, or
            host base intelligence offices for threat analysis and training program support.
        4.3.2.2. Mission Support
            4.3.2.2.1. Report to the Group Weapons and Tactics Flight CC and/or Squadron
            Operations Officer on issues affecting tactical capabilities and make
            recommendations for improvement.
            4.3.2.2.2. Coordinate with current operations/scheduling to ensure tactical
            employment support for all off-station missions transiting threat locations.
            4.3.2.2.3. Work closely with intelligence offices for mission support.
            4.3.2.2.4. Maintain a group directed Tactics Read File with crew member
            accountability. Ensure the Tactics Read File is current and applicable to the unit
            mission (updated at a minimum once per quarter; Group Weapons and Tactics
            may direct a greater frequency to ensure unit mission accomplishment).
            4.3.2.2.5. Maintain a Tactics Reference Library. The Group Weapons and Tactics
            Flight CC will determine the documents necessary for the tactics reference library
            based on their unit’s mission. Reference Attachment 6 of this document for the
            tactics library recommendations. Units will ensure aircrew members have access
            to publications available IAW AFI 11-415.
            4.3.2.2.6. Ensure readiness to deploy in support of unit mission. Maintain
            required materials and equipment to deploy and plan tactical employment portions
            of exercises, contingencies, and combat missions.
            4.3.2.2.7. Tactical Mission Planning. During exercises, contingencies, or combat
            situations, time constraints and dislocated forces complicate the ability to
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                  27


          accomplish initial mission planning, collect mission materials, and coordinate
          support. Tacticians will lead efforts and actively assist aircrews during tactical
          mission planning and provide continuity by staying proficient in mission planning
          and mission binder, Combat Mission Folder (CMF), tactical flimsy development
          while working closely with mission commanders and current operations to
          develop aircrew products.
              4.3.2.2.7.1. Each unit establishes and uses procedures to update mission
              planning information, charts (can be electronic), and intelligence information.
              The unit tactics office establishes quality control procedures to ensure
              currency, accuracy, and adequacy of mission planning materials. Unit aircrew
              members assigned to the Weapons and Tactics Flight will be qualified in the
              mission planning hardware and software systems currently authorized by
              AMC. Higher HQ (AMC) inspections and Staff Assistance Visits should
              review materials maintained by subordinate units including the following:
              4.3.2.2.7.2. Accuracy and availability of planning data.
                4.3.2.2.7.2.1. Adequacy and currency of target materials, maps (hard or
                electronic copy), charts (hard or electronic copy) and operational and
                intelligence information.
                4.3.2.2.7.2.2. Adequacy of unit automated mission planning and Real Time
                Information in the Cockpit (RTIC)/Situational Awareness (including Roll-
                On Beyond Line-of-Sight Enhancement (ROBE)) equipment and training.
          4.3.2.2.8. Electronic Warfare:
              4.3.2.2.8.1. Conduct the squadron EW program (not applicable to MDSs
              without defensive systems). With squadrons deploying as individual units, a
              qualified individual (reference 4.2.1.3) must be prepared to manage the
              squadron assets and training programs, within group guidance and directives,
              for independent operation. An individual qualified in ECO duties will develop
              and maintain a continuity book to allow seamless assumption of duties due to
              deployments or permanent change of station.
              4.3.2.2.8.2. Monitor operational/maintenance status of unit possessed EW
              equipment and ensure timely compliance with PACER WARE message
              traffic.
              4.3.2.2.8.3. Monitor EW equipment fault trend analysis in coordination with
              avionics maintenance personnel and brief aircrews on corrective operational
              procedures.
       4.3.2.3. Training.
          4.3.2.3.1. Ensures all unit aircrews understand tactics included in AFI 11-2 MDS
          series, Volume 3 publications and appropriate volumes of AFTTP 3-1 and 3-3.
          4.3.2.3.2. Ensures aircrews are trained and proficient to tactics-related evaluation
          criteria established by AMC/A3V and the unit Standardization and Evaluation
          personnel.
28                                                    AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


        4.3.2.3.3. Conducts monthly tactical operations briefs (bi-monthly for
        AFRC/ANG) in conjunction with unit intelligence. Briefs should include AFTTP
        3-1.MDS information, new Flash Bulletin or Tactics Bulletins, or current tactics
        used in the AOR.
        4.3.2.3.4. Conducts tactical employment hangar fly sessions quarterly (AOR
        lessons learned, emerging TTPs, etc).
        4.3.2.3.5. Ensures that tactics objectives (such as emissions control (EMCON),
        military deception, map reading, threat avoidance, etc.) are incorporated into all
        training missions rather than create separate sorties for tactics missions. The
        exception to this rule are Tactical Training Sorties designated by AFI 11-2MDS
        Volume 1. Conduct defensive systems familiarization training during unit
        indoctrination as required per 11-2MDS V1. Reference MDS-specific AFTTP 3-
        3 and AFI 11-2MDS, Volume 1, training publications, for further tactics training
        guidance.
        4.3.2.3.6. Manages squadron level BATS program.
        4.3.2.3.7. Reviews specialized tactics training programs (e.g., electronic warfare
        and defensive systems, combat aircrew training, etc.).
        4.3.2.3.8. Injects EW training into unit tactics training and coordinates unit EW
        range flight profiles as required to ensure that aircrew members understand DS
        capabilities and limitations. This includes the use and employment of DS against
        threats.
        4.3.2.3.9. Keeps unit members current on EW threats and tactics via EW
        incorporation into applicable monthly and quarterly training forums.
        4.3.2.3.10. Interacts with scheduling and maintenance to ensure aircraft reflect
        required configurations for EW training/ranges, in-flight equipment checks, and
        training exercises.
     4.3.2.4. Tactics Development.
        4.3.2.4.1. Support Group Weapons and Tactics Flight TD requests to the
        maximum extent possible.
        4.3.2.4.2. Solicit crew inputs for revisions to AFTTP 3-1 and 3-3 volumes and
        forward appropriately using the TIP process outlined in Chapter 2 and AFI 11-
        260.
        4.3.2.4.3. Attend the Group TRB to review tactics and the unit’s ability to apply
        them. Refer to Chapter 2 and AFI 11-260 for an in-depth review of the TIP/TRB
        process.
        4.3.2.4.4. Collect and forward TAARs to Group Weapons and Tactics (reference
        Chapter 2 and AFI 11-260 for additional guidance).
            4.3.2.4.4.1. TAARs are designed to be incorporated into lessons learned and
            then passed through tactics flights to aircrew members.
            4.3.2.4.4.2. Units use TAARs to report valuable tactics information resulting
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                       29


                 from their efforts during the following: all major exercises, deployments
                 involving tactical operations and completion of wing support in a valid AMC-
                 conducted TD&E.
              4.3.2.4.5. TAARs should contain general synopsis of the exercise or event to
              include unit; date of event; point of contact information; a detailed description of
              the event and mission commander summary; threats; battlefield situation; tactics
              attempted; results and problems encountered; any applicable analysis; and
              recommendations and observations to include: changes to existing tactics, invalid
              tactics or areas will require tactics development.
5. Deployed Weapons and Tactics Flight Organization and Employment.
   5.1. General. This chapter addresses the organization and deployment of a weapons and
   tactics shop. Weapons and Tactics organizations will either operate as a stand-alone function
   or they will augment an existing Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) tactics cell.
      5.1.1. Responsibilities. The Weapons and Tactics Flight will be responsible for:
          5.1.1.1. Breaking out the special instructions (SPINS), Air Tasking Order (ATO),
          Airspace Control Order (ACO), building Combat Mission Folders (CMFs),
          conducting mission briefings, and providing threat analysis in conjunction with
          intelligence personnel.
          5.1.1.2. Administering the EW Program IAW AFI 10-703 and AFI 10-706.
          5.1.1.3. Coordinating the Military Deception, Operations Plans, Current Operations,
          and Intelligence offices IAW applicable AFIs.
      5.1.2. Deployment. Weapons and Tactics Flights will deploy under UTC XMCA3 and
      XMCA4 (Airlift) or XMCT4 (Tankers) with the equipment and manning to conduct 24
      hour operations. UTC XMCA6 applies to the Air Force Joint Airdrop Inspector (AFJAI)
      element. Weapons Officers that deploy under UTC XMCT4 will aid mission planners
      (UTC XMCT1/XMCT2/XMCT3) and the command staff (UTC 9ADA1/9ADA2) as
      required. Unit Commanders and the Chief, Wing/Group Weapons and Tactics Flight
      Chief, will ensure that at least one tactics officer deploys with the unit when initially
      setting up Wing Operations Center (WOC) or Stage Operations at a deployed location
      during a contingency or wartime operations. Members deploying should be familiar with
      the ATO/ACO/SPINS process, understand brevity words and terminology, and have the
      skills necessary to operate in a communication and threat intensive environment.
      5.1.3. Equipment. The LOGFOR will identify equipment necessary to operate a
      deployed tactics flight.
          5.1.3.1. Minimum equipment for a deployed Weapons and Tactics Flight consists of:
          classified safe, classified shredder, two secure telephones (STU, VOSIP, STE or
          OMNI), or one Telephone (STU or STE) and one Iridium with secure sleeve and
          outside antenna, an unclassified and secure fax machine, a copy machine, Combat
          Track II ground station equipment, a classified and unclassified computer with flat
          panel monitors for each deploying tactics officer, a briefing projector, a black-and-
          white printer (with the capability to duplex), and a color printer with the capability to
          print 11 x 17 paper size charts (the PFPS portable computers are not a substitute).
30                                                          AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


        Although the minimum equipment listed will operate a Mission Planning Cell (MPC),
        it does not cover malfunctioning equipment or breakages. It is highly recommended
        that this list is augmented with critical spare parts (keyboards, mice, Compact Disc
        Read Only Memory (CD-ROM), ZIP drives, and portable hard drives) for times when
        Forward Operating Location (FOL) logistics are immature/non-existent.
        5.1.3.2. Weapons and Tactics Flights will deploy with an adequate amount of office
        supplies (binders, 3-hole punchers, large amounts of copy paper, adequate toner
        cartridges, pens, etc.) to generate mission materials necessary for combat mission
        folders. See AFTTP 3-1.1, Chapter 3 and MDS associated AFTTP 3-3 volumes for a
        recommended list of office supply items.
        5.1.3.3. Tactics Officers will deploy with hard copies of the respective AFTTP 3-1/3-
        3 MDS volumes, and electronic copies of all relevant publications (to include AFTTP
        3-1/3-3 volumes).
        5.1.3.4. Due to the potential scarcity of equipment in deployed locations, every
        Squadron Weapons and Tactics Flight will have a ―Get-Out-Of-Town‖ checklist
        which prioritizes essential personnel and equipment to accomplish the mission.
        Tactics officers will ensure that a hard copy of all applicable computer and printer
        software is included in the ―Get-Out-Of-Town‖ checklist to ensure system
        interoperability when deployed.
     5.1.4. Manning. When Weapons and Tactics Flights are in garrison, they will be manned
     IAW Air Force Manpower standard. UTCs XMCA3, XMCA4, XMCA6, and XMCT4
     provide deployable manpower for tactics elements. The Group Weapons and Tactics
     Flight should consist of the Flight Commander, a minimum of two additional officers,
     and at least one NCO. The enlisted tactician should be AFJAI qualified for applicable
     units. Weapons and Tactics Officers should refer to MDS associated AFTTP 3-3 volumes
     for manning lessons learned during recent contingency operations.
     5.1.5. Facilities. Commanders will ensure that Weapons and Tactics Flights are
     physically co-located (i.e. same or adjoining office rooms) with Intel Flights in a facility
     allowing them to operate in a secure environment to the maximum extent possible.
     5.1.6. Products. Tactics will maintain ROEs and keep them updated. They will also build
     CMFs for the aircrew. CMFs should include, as applicable, copies of the SPINS, airfield
     information, imagery, charts, DD Form 1801s, Giant Reports, slot times, cargo frags,
     computer flight plans, and any MDS specific required forms. Reference AFTTP 3-3.MDS
     for more thorough CMF contents listings. The Weapons and Tactics Flight may include
     other information deemed important for the aircrew not specified in the AFTTP 3-1/3-3
     MDS.
     5.1.7. Internal/External Relationships. Internally, Weapons and Tactics Flight will work
     closely with the deployed intelligence personnel so they can provide an accurate threat
     analysis and will help brief the aircrew. Externally, Weapons and Tactics Flight will
     inform the appropriate command element (normally the AOC or Air Mobility Division
     (AMD) Weapons and Tactics) of mission details and provide threat environment updates
     via situation reports (SITREPs). Weapons and Tactics Flight will work through the
     command structure established by the Commander, Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR).
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                 31


  5.2. Employment Considerations.
     5.2.1. Stage Operations. Weapons and Tactics officers will focus their attention on
     ACO/ATO/SPINS issues, Giant Reports, Notice to Airman (NOTAMs), etc. for aircrews
     flying missions into the AOR from the Combat Entry Point to the Combat Exit Point. The
     stage management function should focus their mission planning efforts prior to the
     Combat Entry Point and after the Combat Exit Point. If stage operations are being
     conducted within an AOR managed by an AOC, it is essential that mission information
     provided to staged aircrews matches that developed in the AOR.
     5.2.2. Change of Operational Control (CHOP’d) Assets. Commanders/DOs and their
     Weapons and Tactics Officers need to establish close contact with the AOC or joint air
     component Command and Control (C2) planning and execution element.
     5.2.3. Regardless of whether assets are staged or CHOP’d, the following information
     should be produced by Weapons and Tactics Officers in conjunction with Stage
     Managers and mission planners deployed in support of stage operations or CHOP’d
     Assets:
        5.2.3.1. ATO. Extract information for all aircrews flying into the AOR. Weapons and
        Tactics Officers need to have contact with the AOC to ensure stage missions are
        incorporated into the ATO.
        5.2.3.2. ACO, Airspace Control Measures (ACM), and Airspace Control Plan (ACP).
        It is essential aircrews understand the airspace structural procedures and applicable
        restrictions before flying into the AOR. If airspace procedures significantly differ
        from Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs) or International Civil Aviation
        Organization (ICAO) Standard and Recommended Practices (SARPs), all aircrews
        must understand the differences.
        5.2.3.3. SPINS Information. Extract relevant data for aircrews. Aircrews must
        understand applicable sections related to airlift operations, command and control,
        communications, defensive system employment, airspace, and personnel recovery.
        Crews should be tested on relevant portions of the SPINS.
        5.2.3.4. Flight Plans, Charts, NOTAMs, and Weather (WX). Weapons and Tactics
        officers will work in conjunction with Stage Managers to ensure these duties are
        evenly distributed.
        5.2.3.5. Airfield Information. This includes information on the most likely landing
        airfields.
            5.2.3.5.1. Include as a minimum, runway imagery or airfield diagrams, runway
            information, terrain, bullseye information, AMC Risk Assessment Database
            (RAD) information, Giant Reports, Landing Zone (LZ) surveys, avoid areas, no-
            fly areas, and AMC Raven Airfield Reports. Weapons and Tactics Flights should
            review and brief any pertinent airfield/airpace information to aircrews.
        5.2.3.6. Communication Information. This should include communication cards,
        expected frequencies, brevity codes, C2 and en route reporting procedures and
        frequencies, and Contingency Response Element (CRE)/Contingency Response
        Group (CRG) frequencies.
 32                                                          AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


          5.2.3.7. Slot Times and Cargo Frags (if applicable, verify this information has been
          provided by the stage).
          5.2.3.8. Threat Information. In conjunction with unit intelligence officers, determine
          and obtain all air, ground, sea, space and information threats of relevance to the
          required mission from all attainable sources and assist Intelligence Officers/NCOs in
          ensuring all aircrew members receive threat briefs and updates. Operations will
          determine the appropriate tactics, techniques and procedures to mitigate those threats
          and minimize risk to operations, assets and personnel. This information should not
          only include primary and divert airfields and air refueling tracks but also high threat
          areas where aircrews may be required to fly.
          5.2.3.9. General Aircrew Information. Commanders should ensure arriving aircrews
          receive information from the Stage Manager regarding crew transportation, billeting,
          weapons issue and storage, storage and control of classified materials, alerting
          procedures, flight planning, load plans, Aircrew Flight Equipment, flight meals, and
          weather.
          5.2.3.10. Waiver Authority. Aircrews must understand how existing operational
          waivers apply to their specific operation. Consult AMC OPORD, SPINS, CFACC-
          DIRMOBFOR Contingency Waiver Letter for additional guidance.
          5.2.3.11. Lessons Learned Read File. This read file should include lessons learned
          concerning ground, en route, communication and airfield operations/procedures as
          well as employment versus AOR threat systems. This should be kept readily available
          for Weapons and Tactics Officers and aircrew members.
          5.2.3.12. Air to Air Refueling (AAR). Check-in/Check-out procedures. AAR
          altitudes and horizontal airspace. Bullseye location and retrograde procedures.
          Appropriate C2 AAR and High Value Airborne Assets (HVAA) threat warning
          callsigns and frequencies. Killbox reference sheet with high terrain in each killbox
          annotated.
6. Tactician Development.
   6.1. General. This chapter will address the training opportunities and career progression as a
   MAF tactician. This chapter also addresses the number of classes that MAF EW and Tactics
   CoE will offer per year.
   6.2. Basic (Tactics Officer/Tactics NCO).
      6.2.1. FTU Graduate, will be assigned as Squadron Weapons and Tactics Level Tactics
      Liaison Officer
      6.2.2. Complete BATS
      6.2.3. Should serve as mission planner for:
          6.2.3.1. Contingency Deployments
          6.2.3.2. Exercise Deployments
      6.2.3.3.   TTF/Deployed Tanker Detachment
      6.2.4. Attend SSR provided PFPS training
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                           33


  6.3. Intermediate (Chief of Squadron Weapons and Tactics/Tactics NCOIC).
     6.3.1. Attend CATS-MECOC
     6.3.2. Process for TS/SCI clearance
     6.3.3. Serve as Lead Planner of MPC for:
         6.3.3.1. Contingency Deployments
         6.3.3.2. Exercise Deployments
             6.3.3.2.1. Green Flag/Red Flag
             6.3.3.2.2. MAFEX
             6.3.3.2.3. TTF/Deployed Tanker Detachment
             6.3.3.2.4. Joint Forcible Entry Exercise (JFEX)
             6.3.3.2.5. Joint Airborne/Air Transportability Training (JA/ATT)
         6.3.3.3. USAFWS Mission Employment Aircrew Guest Help (Tanker Only)
         6.3.3.4. Multilateral Training Exercises
     6.3.4. Attend AATTC flying course if available
     6.3.5. Loadmasters Tactics NCOs should attend Joint Airdrop Inspection Course (not
     applicable for airland only and tanker units)
  6.4. Advanced (Group Chief of Tactics).
     6.4.1. Attend WIC (MDS without weapons schools will attend CATS-MECOC)
     6.4.2. Serve as deployed operations commander (Detachment/CC or MPC Chief)
         6.4.2.1. Contingency Deployments
             6.4.2.1.1. AMD Air Operations Center (AOC)
         6.4.2.2. Exercise Deployments
             6.4.2.2.1. Green Flag/Red Flag
             6.4.2.2.2. MAFEX
             6.4.2.2.3. TTF/Deployed Tanker Detachment
             6.4.2.2.4. JFEX
             6.4.2.2.5. JA/ATT
         6.4.2.3. Multilateral Training Exercises
     6.4.3. Should attend Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI) Advanced Courses
  6.5. Support Roles and Staffing Responsibilities.
     6.5.1. Commanders at all levels (Wing, OG, and Squadron) will:
         6.5.1.1. Attend MCTC unless a graduate of the USAFWS, CATS, or MECOC.
34                                                        AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


        6.5.1.2. Ensure Tactics Officers and NCOs attend training appropriate for their
        position.
        6.5.1.3. Ensure maximum participation during monthly combat employment
        discussion topic meetings.
     6.5.2. Course attendance, syllabi and quotas.
        6.5.2.1. MAF Tactics and EW CoE, AMC/A3D, 422nd JTS, 561st JTS should meet
        annually to review and discuss current and future syllabi requirements.
        6.5.2.2. In addition to the roles and responsibilities listed in Chapter 1, AMC/A3D
        will:
            6.5.2.2.1. Manage USAFWS class attendance, quotas, and graduate issues for
            weapons officers in accordance with AFI 11-415 and is the sole authority for the
            cancellation of any WIC class. AMC/A3D will be the AMC Weapons and Tactics
            Program and USAFWS Graduate Management Program OPR.
            6.5.2.2.2. Review USAFWS WIC, MAF Tactics & EW CoE syllabi every two
            years or earlier, (if required) and participates in periodic Instructional Systems
            Development (ISD) conferences (if required).
            6.5.2.2.3. Ensures the 34 CTS is providing realistic tactical level, joint combat
            employment training for low and medium intensity conflicts through the Joint
            Readiness Training Center (JRTC) and is tailored to meet the MAF’s needs.
            Provide oversight for Green Flag/Little Rock Training.
        6.5.2.3. In addition to the roles and responsibilities listed in Chapter 3, the MAF
        Tactics and EW CoE will:
            6.5.2.3.1. Update, execute, and maintain a database of attendees for CATS-
            MECOC and MCTC.
            6.5.2.3.2. Develop and review CATS-MECOC and MCTC syllabi based on a two
            year cycle. MAF Tactics and EW CoE, AMC/A3D, 561st JTS should meet
            annually to review and discuss current and future syllabi requirements.
            6.5.2.3.3. Direct its registrar to solicit quotas for MAF Tactics & EW COE
            training courses, as applicable. Distribute schedule and course allocations. Class
            scheduling consists of:
                6.5.2.3.3.1. Six CATS-MECOC classes per year with a maximum class size
                of approximately 40 students.
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                     35


             6.5.2.3.3.2. Four MCTC classes per year with a maximum class size of
             approximately 10 students.
             6.5.2.3.3.3. AATTC Aircrew Flying Course.




                                    FREDERICK R. MARTIN, Brigadier General, USAF
                                    Director of Operations
 36                                                         AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD 1, Air Force Basic Doctrine, 17 November 2003
AFDD 2-5.1, Electronic Warfare, 5 November 2002
AFDD 2-6, Air Mobility Operations, 1 March 2006
AFDD 2-7, Special Operations, 14 May 2010
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, 12 January 2011
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, 18 June 2012
AFI 10-703, Electronic Warfare Integrated Reprogramming, 19 October 2010
AFI 10-704, Military Deception Program (Classified), 30 August 2005
AFI 10-706, Electronic Warfare (EW) Operations, 30 November 2007
AFI 10-707, Spectrum Interference Resolution Program, 30 June 2005
AFI 11-202 Vol 1, Aircrew Training, 22 November 2010
AFI 11-202 Vol 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation, 13 September 2010
AFI 11-202 Vol 3, General Flight Rules, 22 October 2010
AFI 11-212, Munitions Requirements for Aircrew Training, 8 April 2009
AFI 11-214, Air Operations Rules and Procedures, 2 June 2009
AFI 11-231, Computed Air Release Point Procedures, 31 August 2005
AFI 11-260, Tactics Development Program, 12 December 2003
AFI 11-299, Nuclear Airlift Operations (controlled item), 19 March 2008
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 10 December 2010
AFI 11-415, Weapons and Tactics Programs, 17 August 2010
AFI 13-201, Airspace Management, 1 December 2006
AFI 13-212, Range Planning and Operations, 10 July 2008
AFI 13-217, Drop Zone and Landing Zone Operations, 10 May 2007
AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE) Program, 6 September 2006
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 March 2011
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities Intelligence, 10 February 2011
AMCH 11-214, AMC Aircrew Hazardous Materials Handbook, 20 April 2011
AMCI 10-202 V4, Mobility Support Operations, 2 December 2009
AMCI 11-208, Tanker/Airlift Operations, 1 June 2000
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                               37


AMCI 14-106, Threat Working Group (TWG), 15 September 2004
AMCI 36-2806, Award Program Management, 24 March 2010
AMCI 99-101, Test and Evaluation Policy and Procedures, 15 November 2004
AMCPAM 10-210, Stage Crew Management, 5 April 2011
Joint Pub 3-13.1, Electronic Warfare, 25 January 2005
Joint Pub 3-17, Air Mobility Operations, 2 October 2009
Joint Pub 3-30, Command and Control for Joint Air Operations, 12 January 2010
TACTICS LIBRARY:
AIR FORCE TACTICS, TECHNIQUES, AND PROCEDURES (AFTTP) located at the
following:
NIPR: https://wwwmil.nellis.af.mil/units/561jts/downloads/
SIPR: http://nellis.af.smil.mil/units/561jts/downloads/
AFTTP 3-1.General Planning, General Mission Planning, 17 February 2010
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide       , Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics, 2 July 2010
AFTTP 3-1.KC-10/135, Tactical Employment, 17 June 2010
AFTTP 3-1.C-130, Tactical Employment, 14 May 2010
AFTTP 3-1.C-17, Tactical Employment, 20 October 2010
AFTTP 3-1.C-5, Tactical Employment, 4 June 2010
AFTTP 3-3. KC-10/135, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals, 15 October 2010
AFTTP 3-3.C-130, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals, 14 May 2010
AFTTP 3-3.C-130J, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals, 14 May 2010
AFTTP 3-3.C-17, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals, 20 October 2010
AFTTP 3-1.C-5, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals, 4 June 2010
AFTTP 3-3.C-20/37, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals, 18 March 2011
AFTTP 3-3.C-21, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals, 18 March 2011
AFTTP 3-3.C-32/40 Combat Aircraft Fundamentals, 18 March 2011
The below AIR LAND SEA APPLICATION (ALSA) Center website is located at:
NIPR: https://wwwmil.alsa.mil/mttps.html
SIPR: http://www.acc.af.smil.mil/alsa/mttps.html
AFTTP 3-2.5, Multiservice Brevity Codes, April 2010
AFTTP 3-2.6, JFIRE, December 2007
AFTTP 3-2.49, Have Quick, May 2004
 38                                                          AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


The below publication is located on the army publications website at:
http://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/multi_services_1.html
AFJI 13-210, Joint Airdrop Inspection Records, Malfunction Investigations, and Activity
Reporting, 8 April 2008
Prescribed Forms
No Forms or IMT’s prescribed by this publication
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 October 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAMIC— Advanced Air Mobility Intelligence Course
AAR— Air to Air Refueling
AATTC— Advanced Airlift Tactics Training Center
AD— Active Duty
AE— Aeromedical Evacuation
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFJAI— Air Force Joint Airdrop Inspector
AFMSS— Air Force Mission Support System
AFRC— Air Force Reserve Command
AFUTL— Air Force Universal Task List
AI—Action Item
AMC— Air Mobility Command
AMCI— Air Mobility Command Instruction
MCTES— Air Mobility Command Test and Evaluation Squadron
AMD— Air Mobility Division
AMTAT— Air Mobility Tactics Analysis Team
ANG— Air National Guard
AOC— Air and Space Operations Center
AOR— Area of Responsibility
ARMS— Aviation Resource Management System
ATO— Air Tasking Order
AUPM— Aviation Unit Preparation Message
BATS— Basic Aircrew Tactics Studies
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                           39


BMQ— Basic Military Qualified
CAMS— Core Automated Maintenance Systems
CATS— Combat Aircrew Tactics Studies
CC— Commander
CDD— Capability Development Document
CD-ROM— Compact Disc Read Only Memory
CHOP— Change of Operational Control
CMF— Combat Mission Folder
CoE— Center of Excellence
COMAFFOR— Commander, Air Force Forces
COMINT— Communications Intelligence
CONPLANS— Contingency Plan
CoP— Community of Practice
CPD— Capabilities Production Document
CRE— Contingency Response Element
CRG— Contingency Response Group
CTII— Combat Track II
DCA— Defensive Counter Air
DIRMOBFOR— Director Mobility Forces
DOC— Designed Operational Capabilities
DoD— Department of Defense
DS— Defensive Systems
ECO— Electronic Combat Officer
ECSF— Electronic Combat Support Flight
EW— Electronic Warfare
EWIR— Electronic Warfare Integrated Reprogramming
EWO— Electronic Warfare Officer
FCIF— Flight Crew Information File
FOL— Forward Operating Location
FPC— Final Planning Conference
FTU— Formal Training Unit
GLO— Ground Liaison Officer
 40                                                    AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


GTRI— Georgia Tech Research Institute
HUMINT— Human Intelligence
HVAA— High Value Airborne Assets
ICD— Initial Capabilities Document
IFG— In Flight Guide
IG— Inspector General
IPC— Initial Planning Conference
IPT— Integrated Product Team
IR— Infrared
ISD— Instructional Systems Development
ISR— Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
ITT— Integrated Test Team
JA/ATT— Joint Airborne/Air Transportability Training
JAI— Joint Airdrop Inspection
JFEX— Joint Forcible Entry Exercise
JPADS— Joint Precision Airdrop System
JRTC— Joint Readiness Training Center
JTS— Joint Tactics Squadron
LCMG— Life Cycle Management Group
LOA— Letter of Agreement
LOGFOR— Logistics Force Packaging System
MA— Mission Area
MAF— Mobility Air Forces
MAFEX— Mobility Air Forces Exercise
MAJCOM— Major Command
MARLO— Marine Liaison Officer
MCTC— Mobility Commanders Tactics Course
MD— Mission Data
MDF— Mission Data File
MDO— Military Deception Officer
MDS— Mission Design Series
MECOC— Mobility Electronic Combat Officer Course
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                    41


ME— Mission Employment
MFR— Memorandum for Record
MISCA— PS Mission Capability Statements
MPC— Mission Planning Cell
MISREP— Mission Report
MSCL— Mobility Standard Configuration Load
NALE— Navy and Amphibious Liaison Element
NCO— Non-Commissioned Officer
NGB— National Guard Bureau
NGPC— Night Ground Personnel Course
NOTAM— Notice to Airmen
OCA— Offensive Counter Air
OFP— Operational Flight Program
OG— Operations Group
OI— Operating Instruction
OPLAN— Operation Plan
OPORD— Operations Order
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
OSA— Operational Support Airlift
OSS— Operation Support Squadron
PFPS— Portable Flight Planning System
PR— Personnel Recovery
PW— Pacer Ware
R&PC— Requirements & Planning Council
RF— Radar Frequency
ROE— Rules of Engagement
RTRB— Realistic Training Review Board
SA— Situation Awareness
SAV— Staff Assistance Visit
SB— Serene Byte
SCI— Special Compartmented Information
SEAD— Suppression of Enemy Air Defenses
 42                                                 AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


SEB— Standardization and Evaluation Board
SERE— Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape
SIGINT— Signals Intelligence
SIPRNET— Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SITREP— Situation Report
SME— Subject Matter Expert
SOLE— Special Operations Liaison Element
SPINS— Special Instructions
TAAR— Tactics After Action Report
TACC— Tanker Airlift Control Center
TAG— Technical Advisory Group
TD&E— Tactics Development and Evaluation
TFI— Total Force Initiative
TIP— Tactics Improvement Proposal
TPL— Test Priority List
TRB— Tactics Review Board
TS— Top Secret
TTP— Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
USAF— United States Air Force
USAFWC— USAF Weapons Center
USAFWS— USAF Weapons School
UTC— Unit Type Code
VIPSAM— Very Important Person Special Air Mission
WEPTAC— Weapons and Tactics
WG— Wing
WIC— Weapons Instructor Course
WO— Weapons Officer
WOC— Wing Operations Center
WTQM— Weapon Task Qualification Manager
WX— Weather
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                      43


                                          Attachment 2
                      TACTICIAN DEVELOPMENT CURRICULUM

Table A2.1. Tactician Development Curriculum
BATS (Basic Aircrew Tactics Studies)
Introductory combat employment course to develop a MDS unit level tactician (In Unit).

Prereq
         FTU graduation
         Unit Indoc Complete
         Highly motivated, tactically oriented

Management
      Training Folder
      Fm 1522 Completed by Instructor
      Letter of Xs/Certification

Priority
        Assigned to unit Tactics Flight

Course Completion
       AD – 90 (ANG/AFRC – 120) days from entry into program (self-paced)

Waiver Authority
Sq/CC (AD/AFRC/ANG) may extend listed training times up to 30 days provided
appropriate documentation is included in the training folder. In such cases, notification to
MAJCOM/A3T is not required.

CATS-MECOC (Combat Aircrew Tactics Studies – Mobility Electronic Combat
Officer Course)
Intermediate combat employment and defensive system course to develop MAF unit level
Chief of Tactics (MAF Tactics & EW CoE)

Prereq
         BATS Certification (Aircrew Only)


Management
      Fm 1522 Completed By MAF Tactics & EW CoE
      Letter of Xs/Certification

Priority
        Chief of Tactics
        Aircrew Assigned to Tactics Flight
44                                                           AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


         Instructors
         Aircrew
         Intel
         ECM

Course Completion
        2 weeks
MCTC (Mobility Commander’s Tactics Course)
Intermediate course to develop current and future squadron, group, and intelligence unit
commanders in mobility’s current contingency employment planning and operational
issues (MAF Tactics & EW CoE)

Prereq
         N/A

Management
      Fm 1522 Completed By MAF Tactics & EW CoE
      Letter of Xs/Certification

Priority
        Units with planned expeditionary tasking

Course Completion
       2 days


AATTC (Aircrew Day Flying Course & Aircrew Day/Night Flying Course)
Intermediate ground and flying course to provide exposure to high altitude, desert, and
mountainous environments, providing the most realistic combat training (MAF Tactics &
EW COE)

Prereq
         N/A

Management
      N/A

Priority
        Instructors
        Experienced Crew Members

Course Completion
       12 days
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                           45


                                    Attachment 3
                        TACTICS DEVELOPMENT CYCLE

Figure A3.1. Tactics Development Cycle
46   AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                    47


                                    Attachment 4
                       TACTICS TIP SUMMARY EXAMPLE

Table A4.1. Tactics TIP Summary Example.

 STATUS       TIP #  DESCRIPTION, DISCUSSION, AND                    OPR/OC
                     RECOMMENDATION(S)                               R
              YR-5## TITLE OF TIP: (TIP title here)                  OPR:
 Open,
 Closed, or           AIRCRAFT AFFECTED: (any aircraft affected by
 Action               TIP)                                           OCR:
 Item
                      DESCRIPTION OF PROBLEM: (Use description
                      from AF IMT 4326)                              STAFF
                                                                     REP:
                      TACTICAL SOLUTION: (Use solution/objectives
                      from AF IMT 4236)

                      RECOMMENDATION: (Disposition and TRB
                      approved recommendation)

                      ORIGINATOR: (submitter, organization, DSN #)

                      UPDATES:
                      MON YR: (Summary of Update)

                      ECD: (Estimated closeout date)
 48                                                AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011


                                    Attachment 5
                            TEST REQUEST EXAMPLE

Figure A5.1. Test Request Example
AMCI11-207 7 OCTOBER 2011                                                                  49


                                          Attachment 6
                                CLOSEOUT MFR EXAMPLE

Figure A6.1. Closeout MFR Example

TIP CLOSEOUT SUMMARY                                                    (Date Posted)

TIP Number: (YR-5##)
Title: (TIP Title on AF IMT 4326)

Summary of Action Taken:
(Brief description of action taken to cause TIP closure)

Closed By: (Rank First Name Last Name, Office Symbol, DSN)
Date: (Date TIP was closed)
Associated documentation: (Any associated documentation: Test Report, publication, etc.)
