BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                  INSTRUCTION 36-2808

                                                                            4 NOVEMBER 2010

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                                 AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                              DISTINGUISHED PERSONNEL
                                                                      AWARDS PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AMC/A1KKM                                                  Certified by: HQ AMC/A1KK
Supersedes: AMCI36-2808,                                                         (Diana Hendrix)
            9 August 2004                                                              Pages: 13


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations
Programs. It establishes criteria and objectives for AMC-sponsored personnel awards. It applies
to personnel as specified in the individual award criteria. This instruction does not apply to Air
National Guard and US Air Force Reserve units. This instruction requires collecting and
maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Executive Order 9397, 22
November 1943, authorizes using the Social Security Number as a personal identifier. The
Social Security Number is required for positive identification of personnel. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all Supplements must be routed to the OPR of
this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The title of this instruction has changed, from Personnel Awards to Air Mobility Command
Distinguished Personnel Awards Program. Deletes the information sheet and realigns the AF
Form 1206 to 30 lines maximum (to include headers, if applicable) for the Company Grade
Officer of the Year (CGOY) Award and the Airlift/Tanker Young Leadership Award. It changes
 2                                                         AMCI36-2808 4 NOVEMBER 2010


the title and number of award nomination headers and number of lines that may be used on the
AF Form 1206 for the Air Mobility Command (AMC) Outstanding Civilian of the Year Award.
It also includes Nonappropriated Fund employees for award consideration. It adds the AMC
Key Spouse of the Year Award.
1. General. This instruction places all AMC-sponsored Directorate of Manpower, Personnel,
and Services awards into one instruction.
2. AMC Company Grade Officer of the Year (CGOY) Award:
     2.1. Responsible Agency. HQ AMC/A1KKM.
     2.2. Purpose or Objective. To recognize unique or exceptional achievement, outstanding
     duty performance, and extraordinary contribution to overall mission accomplishment by
     AMC Company Grade Officers.
     2.3. Eligibility. All AMC officers in the grade of second lieutenant through captain as of31
     December of the year prior to the award presentation.
     2.4. Description. The award is an appropriately engraved plaque.
     2.5. Frequency of Award. Annually.
     2.6. Method of Presentation. Selectee's unit will make presentation arrangements. Selectee's
     unit will provide TDY orders and funds, when required, including commercial travel if
     government transportation is not available.
     2.7. Source of Evaluation. The AMC CGOY is selected from nominations submitted to HQ
     AMC/ A1KKM not later than 15 February of each year. Nominating units must validate that
     the nominee does not have any UIFs or derogatory information prior to submission to HQ
     AMC/A1KKM.
     2.8. Related Directives. None.
     2.9. Criteria. Individuals competing for this award are considered on the basis of the
     following criteria:
        2.9.1. Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duty During the Preceding Calendar
        Year. Describe significant leadership accomplishments and how well the member
        performed assigned primary and additional duties. This could include job knowledge and
        leadership qualities applied to a specific Air Force problem, combat situation, or
        development of new techniques, procedures, or processes.
        2.9.2. Significant Self-Improvement During the Preceding Calendar Year. Show how
        the member developed or improved skills related to off-duty schooling, membership in
        professional or cultural societies or association, and development of creative abilities.
        Show how members have demonstrated their ability as an articulate and positive
        spokesperson for the Air Force.
        2.9.3. Base or Community Involvement During the Preceding Calendar Year. Define the
        scope and impact of the member’s positive leadership and involvement in both the
        military and civilian community. Include participation in social, cultural, or religious
        activities in the military or civilian community which, tangibly or intangibly, contributes
        to community or group welfare, morale, or status. Include Air Force or civilian awards,
AMCI36-2808 4 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                      3


      prizes, titles, certificates of appreciation, etc., obtained as recognition for personal
      services rendered or contributions made to military or civilian community life.
   2.10. Nominating Procedures. Each Wing, Numbered Air Force (NAF), Expeditionary
   Mobility Task Force (EMTF), and Independent Group commander may nominate one officer
   to HQ AMC/A1KKM. Each Direct Reporting Unit (DRU) and HQ AMC Orderly Room
   (CCQ) may nominate one officer to HQ AMC/A1KKM. Nomination letter is to be signed
   by the nominee's appropriate commander or vice commander/director or deputy director.
   Negative replies are required. The nomination package must contain:
      2.10.1. A write-up limited to 30 lines to include headers, single-spaced, size 12-font,
      using the AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award. Headings should be listed on a single
      line with the justification beginning on the line immediately below the heading.
      2.10.2. Biography (see Attachment 2), Standard Biography Format.
      2.10.3. Public Release Statement (see Attachment 3).
   2.11. How Recipient is Determined. Nomination packages are reviewed by an AMC
   selection board. The board considers and evaluates nominees on their own merits. Board
   results are subject to approval by AMC/CC. AMC/CV will approve if AMC/CC is
   unavailable.
   2.12. Publicity. The HQ AMC Office of Public Affairs (HQ AMC/PA) provides maximum
   publicity of the AMC CGOY through the use of local and command news releases, articles in
   the command newspaper, commander's calls, etc.
3. Airlift/Tanker Association Young Leadership Award (A/TAYLA).
   3.1. Responsible Agency. HQ AMC/A1KKM.
   3.2. Purpose or Objective. To recognize 12 outstanding individuals who will likely become
   future leaders within the air mobility community.
   3.3. Eligibility. Nominations are open to all individuals in operational and support
   functional areas. Nominees must meet one of the following eligibility criteria: Officer
   serving in the grade of captain or below or airman serving in the grade of technical sergeant
   or below as of 30 October of eligibility year. Inclusive dates for award are 1 January to 31
   December of previous year and nominee must have retainability in the Air Force through 31
   December of the presentation year.
   3.4. Description. The award includes a personalized medallion with ribbon and award
   display box. The awards will be presented by the A/TA at the national convention.
   Recipients will also receive a 1-year membership or renewed extension to the Airlift/Tanker
   Association.
   3.5. Frequency of Award. Annually.
   3.6. Method of Presentation. The A/TA will conduct the award ceremony for the 12
   honorees during their annual convention. Nominating units will provide temporary duty
   orders and per diem funds to cover the cost of travel, room, food, incidentals, and registration
   fees.
4                                                         AMCI36-2808 4 NOVEMBER 2010


    3.7. Source of Evaluation. The A/TA Young Leaders are selected by an awards board
    consisting of colonels and chief master sergeants. The board presidents will be the presiding
    colonel filling the HQ AMC/A1K position and chief master sergeant filling the HQ
    AMC/A1K superintendent position. AMC/CC will approve the board's results. AMC/CV
    will approve if AMC/CC is unavailable.
    3.8. Related Directives. None.
    3.9. Criteria.
       3.9.1. Scope of Responsibility and Job Performance. Include duty title, level of
       organization, number of military and civilian personnel supervised (directly or
       indirectly), and programs and accomplishments for which nominee was directly
       responsible.
       3.9.2. Professional Leadership.        Nominees must have demonstrated exceptional
       leadership traits within the air mobility community.
       3.9.3. Leadership Image. Nominees' personal leadership traits must be evidenced in their
       character, conduct, and willingness to accomplish goals and accept additional
       responsibility.
       3.9.4. Community Involvement. Nominees should project their leadership skills within
       the local military and/or civilian community through service activities.
    3.10. Nominating Procedures. HQ AMC Directors are authorized to submit two nomination
    packages, one officer and one enlisted. Each AMC Wing, NAF, EMTF, Independent Group
    and DRU is authorized to submit two nomination packages, one officer and one enlisted.
    Each invited MAJCOM (HQ ACC, AETC, AFMC, PACAF, USAFE, AFSOC, ANG, and
    AF Reserves) will be allowed to submit two nomination packages, one officer and one
    enlisted. The appropriate commander or vice commander/director or deputy director will
    sign an endorsement letter nominating their members. Nomination packages are to be
    submitted to HQ AMC/A1KKM NLT 15 April. Negative replies are required. The
    nomination package must contain:
       3.10.1. A write-up limited to 30 lines to include headers, single-spaced, size 12-font,
       using the AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award. Headings should be listed on a single
       line with the justification beginning on the line immediately below the heading.
       3.10.2. Biography (see Attachment 2), standard biography format.
       3.10.3. Public Release Statement (see Attachment 3).
       3.10.4. An official color photograph (digital), head and shoulders only in service dress
       uniform without headgear.
    3.11. How Recipient is Determined. Nominations are reviewed by a selection board which
    will consist of colonels and chiefs from HQ AMC and the invited MAJCOMs. The board
    considers and evaluates nominees on their own merits. The 12 members selected will be
    presented to the A/TA membership during its annual convention. HQ AMC/A1KKM will
    forward, by 1 July, copies of all nomination packages and board results to the President and
    Secretary, A/TA.
AMCI36-2808 4 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                     5


   3.12. Publicity. All selectees' biographies and photographs will be published in “The
   Airlift/Tanker Quarterly.” HQ AMC/PA will prepare internal and external releases on the
   awards process and winners to gain maximum exposure before public and command
   audiences.
4. AMC Outstanding Civilian of the Year Award.
   4.1. General: The purpose of this award program is to:
      4.1.1. Enhance visibility of accomplishments of command civilian employees.
      4.1.2. Encourage supervisors to recognize accomplishments of their civilian employees.
      4.1.3. Encourage civilian employees to strive for greater effectiveness and efficiency.
   4.2. Description of Award: The award consists of a certificate of achievement signed by the
   AMC Commander (or designated representative) and an engraved memento provided by HQ
   AMC/A1K. Recipients also have the option of selecting a $500.00 cash Notable
   Achievement Award (NAA) or a 4-working day Time-Off Award (TOA).
   4.3. Responsibilities.
      4.3.1. The Personnel Programs Branch, HQ AMC/A1KK, of the Directorate of
      Manpower, Personnel, and Services, controls and administers the program for the
      command.
      4.3.2. The awards monitor for the AMC Incentive Awards Committee (IAC) reviews
      award nominations to ensure compliance with this instruction.
      4.3.3. Empowered by the AMC Commander, the AMC IAC, a quorum consisting of
      three voting members in each category, selects the award winners. The AMC IAC
      chairperson or alternate chairperson will act as “tie breaker” in the event of equal scores.
      4.3.4. Each nominating organization funds (when applicable), initiates, and submits
      appropriate papers granting an NAA or TOA for its respective winner(s) to their
      servicing civilian personnel section. Although it may be the winners’ prerogative to
      choose and determine when to use the time off, they must follow established leave
      requesting procedures.
   4.4. Award Categories:       This program includes three individual award categories.
   Individuals will be nominated in the category that corresponds to the grade/position they held
   for the majority of the award period.
      4.4.1. Category I includes all employees in grades GS-/GG-01 through 08, WG-/WL-01
      through 08, NA-/NL-/NS-01 through 08, CC-01 through 05, and NF-I and II.
      4.4.2. Category II includes all employees in grades GS-/GG-09 through GS-12, WG-
      /WL-09 and above, WS-01 through 12, NA-09 and above, NL-/NS-09 through 12, and
      NF-III and IV.
      4.4.3. Category III includes all employees in grades GS-/GG-/GM-13 and above, WS-
      /NL-/NS-13 and above, and NF-V and above.
6                                                          AMCI36-2808 4 NOVEMBER 2010


    4.5. Eligibility Requirements. All AMC appropriated fund and nonappropriated fund
    civilian employees, regardless of race, sex, age, religion, national origin, or disability, who
    meet the criteria are eligible for these awards. Each nominee must:
       4.5.1. Have worked in AMC appropriated fund or non-appropriated fund position(s)
       throughout the entire award period (January-December).
       4.5.2. Receive an acceptable performance rating during the award period (January-
       December).
       4.5.3. Not have performance or disciplinary action pending.
    4.6. Nomination Procedures.
       4.6.1. Nomination packages are due to HQ AMC/A1KKM in accordance with the
       following paragraphs NLT 1 March of each year:
           4.6.1.1. Each Wing, Numbered Air Force (NAF), EMTF, Independent Group, and
           DRU commanders may nominate one civilian employee in each category from
           civilian employees assigned and attached to their unit direct to HQ AMC/A1KKM.
           4.6.1.2. The HQ AMC annual award winners are automatically submitted as the HQ
           AMC nominees for this award; therefore, there is no requirement to submit
           nominations.
       4.6.2. Nomination packages consist of the most current version of AF Form 1206,
       Nomination for Award (front side only) (Attachment 4). Individuals will be nominated
       in the category that corresponds to the grade/position they held for the majority of the
       award period. Do not exceed 30 lines to include headings. Headings should be listed
       on a single line with the justification beginning on the line immediately below the
       heading. A six line Job Description (including heading) may be included, which does
       not count against the 30 line total. Justification should be in bullet format, accurate and
       succinct, and address the subjects and criteria listed below. An acronym listing may be
       used and aligned along the bottom of the 1206 that explains unique acronyms not
       commonly known throughout the Air Force. Nominating Wing, NAF, EMTF,
       Independent Group, and DRU (or designated representative) should submit the AF Form
       1206 in original electronic format to HQ AMC/A1KKM. No signature is required. If the
       AF Form 1206 is signed, nominations should be scanned into .pdf format and e-mailed to
       HQ AMC/A1KKM.
           4.6.2.1. Job Description: In no more than six lines (including the header), describe
           the nominee’s primary job responsibilities and duties. This heading is for
           informational purposes only and does not count against the 30 total lines used for the
           headings listed in paragraphs 4.6.2.2. and 4.6.2.3. below.
           4.6.2.2. Leadership and Job Performance: Characterize the nominee’s personal
           leadership as evidenced by character, conduct, and willingness to accomplish goals
           and accept additional responsibility. This could include leadership qualities applied
           to a specific Air Force problem or development of new techniques, procedures, or
           processes which resulted in increased mission effectiveness. Provide factual and
           substantiated examples of the nominee’s significant achievements and performance
           above general job requirements. Describe how well your nominee improved
AMCI36-2808 4 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                   7


          operations; highlight any support he or she provided for special projects; explain any
          other outstanding services the employee provided that benefited the organization's
          mission. All accomplishments must have occurred during the 12-month nomination
          period.
          4.6.2.3. Other Significant Accomplishments/Community Efforts: Describe the
          nominee’s self-improvement efforts, if applicable. This may include training and
          educational activities, additional duties, community and (or) civic activities, and
          family enhancement.
   4.7. Selection Process: The AMC IAC awards monitor sends eligible award nominations to
   selected committee members who consider and evaluate nominees on their own merits.
   Board results are subject to approval by AMC/CC. AMC/CV will approve if AMC/CC is
   unavailable.
   4.8. Recognition and Publicity.
      4.8.1. Award presentations will take place at an appropriate ceremony.
      4.8.2. HQ AMC/A1KKM will announce winners to all AMC commanders.
5. AMC Key Spouse (KSOY) of the Year Award.
   5.1. Responsible Agency. HQ AMC/A1KKM controls and administers the program for the
   command.
   5.2. Purpose or Objective. To recognize the critical role Key Spouses play in the
   wing/unit/organization’s mission success. To enhance command Key Spouses visibility and
   accomplishments. To encourage units to recognize Key Spouses individual and team
   outstanding accomplishments and contributions to overall mission accomplishment. To
   encourage Key Spouses to strive for greater effectiveness and efficiency.
   5.3. Eligibility. All AMC recognized Key Spouses who meet the criteria are eligible to be
   submitted for these awards. Each nominee submitted must meet the following: Have served
   in an AMC unit throughout the award period (1 January - 31 December) and be a current Key
   Spouse volunteer. Engaged in activities which address issues that support unit families and
   the unit’s ability to support the mission.
      5.3.1. Units must validate Key Spouse(s) achievements covering the time frame used for
      nomination of the award. Units must define the scope and impact of the Key Spouse
      involvement in the community which, tangibly or intangibly, contributed to community
      or group welfare, morale, or status. Include volunteer awards, certificates of
      appreciation, training, etc., obtained as recognition for personal services rendered or
      contributions made having a direct impact on Quality of Life.
      5.3.2. The award is not designed to recognize Key Spouses for a single act.
   5.4. Frequency of Award. Annually. Inclusive period for this award is 1 January to 31
   December.
   5.5. Nomination Procedures: Each AMC Directorate, Wing, Numbered Air Force (NAF),
   EMTF, and Independent Group commander (if applicable) may nominate one individual or
   one team from Key Spouses or Key Spouse teams assigned to their unit/organization. A
   team is comprised of two or more individuals. Nomination letter is to be signed by the
8                                                         AMCI36-2808 4 NOVEMBER 2010


    nominee's appropriate commander or vice commander/director or deputy director. Negative
    replies are required. Nomination packages are due to HQ AMC/A1KKM NLT 31 May
    each year.
    5.6. Award Categories. This program includes one individual and team award categories.
    Individuals will be nominated in the category that corresponds to their service during the
    majority of the award period.
       5.6.1. Nomination packages consist of the most current version of AF Form 1206,
       Nomination for Award (front side only). Do not exceed a total of 30 lines (including
       headings); however, the job description category is not included in these 30 lines.
       Headings should be listed on a single line with the justification beginning on the line
       immediately below the heading. Justification should be in bullet format, accurate and
       succinct, and address the subjects and criteria listed below. An acronym listing may be
       used and aligned along the bottom of the AF Form 1206 that explains unique acronyms
       not commonly known throughout the Air Force. Nominating Wing should submit the AF
       Form 1206 in original electronic format to HQ AMC/A1KKM. No signature is required.
       Nominations received after the established suspense date will not be submitted to the
       panel.
           5.6.1.1. Key Accomplishments. Characterize the nominee’s or team’s contributions
           as evidenced by character, conduct, and willingness to achieve unit goals. This could
           include leadership qualities applied to a specific unit, wing, or Air Force problem or
           development of new techniques, procedures, or processes which resulted in increased
           mission effectiveness. Provide factual and substantiated examples of the nominee’s
           significant and unique achievements and performance of Key Spouse duties.
           Describe how well your nominee improved unit family cohesion; explain any other
           outstanding services the employee provided that benefited the organization's mission.
           All accomplishments must have occurred during the 12-month nomination period.
           5.6.1.2. Other Accomplishments/Community Efforts. Describe the nominee’s self-
           improvement efforts, if applicable. This may include training and educational
           activities, community and (or) civic activities, and family enhancement.
       5.6.2. Biography (see Attachment 2), standard biography format.
       5.6.3. An official color photograph (digital), head and shoulders only.
       5.6.4. A public release statement (Attachment 3). Nominee must sign a public release
       statement that reads verbatim: “I do or do not (circle one) agree to the use of privacy act
       information in the nomination narrative. This information may include privacy act
       information or personally identifying information (PII) found in AFI 33-332, Privacy Act
       Program, Chapter 12, Disclosing Records to Third Parties. I understand those
       transmitting personal information will exercise caution and adequately safeguard it IAW
       AFI 33-332, Paragraphs 10.2.1. and 10.2.2. The announcement message or any publicity
       regarding the award nomination will contain no privacy act information other than name,
       rank, and base of assignment.” The nominee must sign and date this statement.
    5.7. Selection Process. The nomination packages received will be reviewed by a 3-person
    selection panel consisting of high ranking officers spouses within HQ AMC. The panel
AMCI36-2808 4 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                      9


   considers and evaluates nominees on their own merit. The results of the panel will be
   approved by AMC/CC. AMC/CV will approve if AMC/CC is unavailable.
   5.8. Method of Presentation. The Key Spouse or Key Spouse team honoree will be
   presented a certificate of achievement signed by the AMC Commander (or designated
   representative) and an engraved memento at the annual Airlift/Tanker Association
   Convention and Symposium normally held in late October.
   5.9. Travel for Non-Military Members or Non-Department of the Air Force Civilians.
   Travel to the presentation ceremony is authorized for Department of the Air Force Civilians
   and non-military/non-Department of the Air Force Civilian recipients. When individuals
   who are neither military members nor Department of the Air Force civilians are selected as a
   recipient of these awards, authorize invitational travel so they may attend the presentation
   ceremony. Refer to the Joint Travel Regulation for instructions and limitations on travel
   reimbursements for members and employees and invitation travel orders for family members
   and non-Department of the Air Force civilians. Nominating unit will provide temporary duty
   orders and funds to cover the cost of travel, room, food, incidentals, and registration fees, if
   applicable, to include commercial travel if government transportation is not available.
   5.10. Publicity. HQ AMC/A1KKM will announce winner to all AMC commanders.
6. Prescribed and Adopted Forms. No forms are prescribed by this instruction.
   6.1. Adopted Forms.
       AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
       AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award




                                             STEVEN J. BEATTY, Colonel, USAF
                                             Director of Manpower, Personnel, and Services
 10                                                  AMCI36-2808 4 NOVEMBER 2010


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 August 1997
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC— Air Combat Command
AETC— Air Education and Training Command
AFMC— Air Force Materiel Command
AFSOC— Air Force Special Operations Command
AMC— Air Mobility Command
A/TAYLA— Airlift/Tanker Association Young Leadership Award
A/TA— Airlift/Tanker Association
ANG— Air National Guard
CGO— Company Grade Officer
CGOY— Company Grade Officer of the Year
DRU— Direct Reporting Unit
EMTF— Expeditionary Mobility Task Force
FOA— Field Operating Agency
HQ— Headquarters
IAC— Incentive Awards Committee
NAA— Notable Achievement Award
NAF— Numbered Air Force
PACAF— Pacific Air Forces
SSN— Social Security Number
TACC— Tanker Airlift Control Center
TDY— Temporary Duty
TOA— Time-Off Award
USAFE— United States Air Forces in Europe
AMCI36-2808 4 NOVEMBER 2010                                                              11


                                       Attachment 2
                          STANDARD BIOGRAPHY FORMAT

Figure A2.1. Standard Biography Format.
CAPTAIN JOHN DOE, JR.
AFSC: 36PX, CHIEF, CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE SECTION
Captain John Doe, Jr., is a personnel officer assigned to the 375th Support Group, Scott
Air Force Base, Illinois. He is 32 years old. Captain Doe was born in Lexington, Kentucky,
on 29 June 1978. He attended Central High School and excelled across the entire spectrum
of school activities. As a 3-year football letterman, his exceptional performance earned him
his team's coveted Patterson Award for spirit, dedication, and leadership on and off the
field. After graduating from high school in 1996, Captain Doe was locally employed and
served as a church council officer for the Good Shepherd Church in Covington, Kentucky.
He subsequently attended ABG College and graduated in the top third of his class.
Upon completion of Officer Training School at Lackland Air Force Base, Texas, in 2000,
Captain Doe began technical training as a personnel officer at Keesler Air Force Base,
Mississippi, where he was an honor graduate (March 2004). He was then assigned to Scott
Air Force Base, Illinois. Captain Doe is married to the former Jane Smith. He is active in
his local church, where he serves as youth counselor. He was selected as the Outstanding
Company Grade Officer of the Quarter and subsequently for the year 2009 for the 375th
Support Group. He is the recipient of the Air Force Commendation Medal and has
received many prizes and awards for his civic involvement.


Note: Limit the biography to one single-spaced typewritten page
 12                                                AMCI36-2808 4 NOVEMBER 2010


                                    Attachment 3
                     SAMPLE PUBLIC RELEASE STATEMENT

Figure A3.1. Sample Public Release Statement



                             PUBLIC RELEASE STATEMENT




I, _____________________________DO OR DO NOT (CIRCLE ONE) AGREE TO THE USE
OF PRIVACY ACT INFORMATION IN THE NOMINATION. THIS INFORMATION MAY
INCLUDE PRIVACY ACT INFORMATION OR PERSONALLY IDENTIFYING
INFORMATION (PII) FOUND IN AFI 33-332, PRIVACY ACT PROGRAM, CHAPTER 12,
DISCLOSING RECORDS TO THIRD PARTIES. I UNDERSTAND THOSE TRANSMITTING
PERSONAL INFORMATION WILL EXERCISE CAUTION AND
ADEQUATELY SAFEGUARD IT IAW AFI 33-332, PARAGRAPH 7.3., AND
PARAGRAPHS 10.2.1. & 10.2.2. THE ANNOUNCEMENT MESSAGE OR ANY
PUBLICITY REGARDING THE AWARD NOMINATION WILL CONTAIN NO PRIVACY
ACT INFORMATION OTHER THAN NAME, RANK, AND BASE OF ASSIGNMENT.




                                    _________________________________   ___________

                                    SIGNATURE                           DATE
AMCI36-2808 4 NOVEMBER 2010                                                         13


                                   Attachment 4
    SAMPLE AF FORM 1206 FOR AIR MOBILITY COMMAND OUTSTANDING
                   CIVILIAN OF THE YEAR AWARD

Figure A4.1. Sample AF Form 1206 for Air Mobility Command Outstanding Civilian of
the Year Award.
