BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                 INSTRUCTION 65-605

                                                                          20 OCTOBER 2010

                                                                       Financial Management

                                                         RESPONSIBILITY CENTER/COST
                                                               CENTER (RC/CC) CODES


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AMC/FMAO                                                  Certified by: HQ AMC/FMA
Supersedes: AMCI 65-605, 4 May 2007                                          (Col Jay Helming)
                                                                                       Pages: 9


This instruction contains the responsibilities and format for developing, maintaining, and
applying the budget structure to implement Responsibility Center/Cost Center (RC/CC) codes
and subsequently Work Center (WC) codes to support Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 65-6,
Budget. It provides general guidance and instruction for the implementation of RC/CC codes at
all levels of operation. It is not intended to be strictly a stand-alone source for RC/CC
development as there are other references in this publication that provide additional guidance.
This instruction does not apply to National Guard Bureau (NGB) and Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) units. Ensure all records in this publication are maintained and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
IAW with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
the AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Paragraph 5.6. replaced the AMC/FM Budget Policy link with the SAF/FMP (Air Force
Financial Services Office (AFFSO)) Hub link; paragraph 6.2. deleted the Air Force Data
Dictionary (AFDD) links; deleted paragraphs 6.1. and 6.3. in the previous publication;
renumbered paragraphs 6.2. and 6.4. in the previous publication and deleted the AFDD links,
replacing them with the FM DQS link; added or deleted references in Attachment 1 as
 2                                                             AMCI65-605 20 OCTOBER 2010


appropriate. Deleted Attachment 2 in the previous publication which provided DoD Functional
Category codes as they are no longer required. This revision also incorporates Change 1 dated 29
August 2007 and Change 2 dated 1 June 2009.
1. Purpose. This instruction prescribes the Responsibility Center /Cost Center (RC/CC) codes
used in the Air Force accounting system. These codes identify resources and costs for all major
commands (MAJCOMs) and their subordinate units across the Air Force. This instruction
provides definitions, use, and coding required to achieve the correlation of programming,
budgeting, and accounting data. RC/CC codes are used to identify a specific responsibility center
that carries out the mission, conducts a major line of activity, or produces one or more outputs.
2. Overview. RC/CCs were formerly provided in AFR 170-5, Responsibility Center/Cost
Center (RC/CC) Codes, which was converted to Defense Finance and Accounting Service –
Denver (DFAS-DE) 7000.1-R in December 1996. Subsequently, DFAS-DE 7000.1-R was
rescinded by DFAS-DE and the responsibility for RC/CCs transferred back to the Air Force.
This Air Mobility Command Instruction (AMCI) is established to provide guidance to AMC
financial managers concerning RC/CC codes until the DoDFMR 7000.14-R, Volume 1, General
Financial Management Information, Systems, and Requirements, chapter 4, is revised or other
Air Force financial management instructions are published/revised. At that time, RC/CCs may
convert to Work Center Codes (WCC) in the Defense Enterprise Accounting and Management
System (DEAMS), when approved by SAF/FM. This conversion will not alter the size or the
assigned designations of the RC/CC codes.
3. Applicability and Scope. This instruction applies to activities of Headquarters (HQ) AMC,
18th Air Force (AF), the United States Air Force Expeditionary Center (USAF EC) (formerly the
Air Mobility Warfare Center (AMWC), AMC bases, AMC geographically separated units
(GSU), and AMC tenants that reside on AMC bases or other MAJCOM/DoD installations.
4. Policy. The RC/CC codes are designed to identify resources in such a manner as to provide
the capability to aggregate Operations and Maintenance (O&M) costs in successively higher
levels within the management structure. They are the common denominators used to identify
DoD programs and functional categories in the Future Years Defense Plan (FYDP) structure.
The codes are consistently applied throughout the chain of command and allow for attaining the
following immediate goals:
     4.1. To provide a history of expense and obligation data for budget formulation at all levels.
     4.2. To provide consistent data that managers at all levels can use in monitoring actual
     expenditures and obligations against budgeted resources.
     4.3. To permit separation of organizational entities so that responsibility for controlling
     operating costs can be delegated to the chiefs of activities that have authority to consume the
     resources.
     4.4. To identify common functional areas of activities, thereby permitting intermediate and
     major commands to compare the effectiveness and efficiency with like functions that use
     available resources.
     4.5. RC/CCs are designed to capture organizational costs and are not to be used to track
     specific program costs at MAJCOM/base level or within an organization.
AMCI65-605 20 OCTOBER 2010                                                                       3


   4.6. There must be a one to one relationship between the RC/CC and Program Element (PE)
   codes within each Operating Agency Code/Operating Budget Account Number
   (OAC/OBAN). This is because when other standard Air Force systems (e.g., supply, civilian
   pay, etc.) interface with the accounting system and multiple PE codes exist for a single
   RC/CC, the interface process will aggregate all the costs for the particular RC/CC against the
   first PE code it finds, thereby distorting the data in the accounting system.
   4.7. Do not change the 6th position of any RC/CC from what is already approved. See
   paragraph 5.6. below.
5. Description of RC/CC Codes.
   5.1. Responsibility Center (RC). The RC is an organization headed by a single individual
   who has been assigned to monitor financial management, and who, in most cases, exercises a
   significant degree of control of resources acquired and consumed. RC managers generally
   include the Group Commanders and other subordinate commanders, depending on the local
   management structure. The RC is the focal point for exercising management control and one
   level of reporting for financial accountability. Designation of RCs is based on these
   conditions:
      5.1.1. Type of unit and mission or function involved.
      5.1.2. Significance of the resources involved or size of the program to be accomplished.
      5.1.3. The level at which management reports are required or will be requested.
      5.1.4. Span of control.
      5.1.5. Single managerial responsibility.
   5.2. Cost Center (CC). The CC is the basic production unit within the chain of command. It
   is directly identifiable to a parent MAJCOM. It is subordinate to the RC and denotes the
   basic organizational level at which the aggregation of costs are meaningful. It is used to
   accumulate costs which relate to a specific RC and to aggregate costs that may be distributed
   to other CCs. A CC may relate to more than one program element, but not within the same
   OBAN.
   5.3. Cost Account (CA). A CA is established to collect and identify costs below the CC
   level. The CA is subordinate to a CC and is identified directly to a single MAJCOM, DoD
   program element, and DoD functional category. It is the lowest level for accumulating costs.
   5.4. Separate RC/CC codes are mandatory to provide for the integrity of costs.
      5.4.1. For AMC, RC/CC codes are used within the Air Force O&M appropriation
      (57*3400, Fund Code 30) and Defense Health Program appropriation (97*0130.1883,
      Fund Code 2X) as well as other O&M-type appropriations whose funds are issued to HQ
      AMC/FM to be executed at the organization level, to include the Transportation Working
      Capital Fund (TWCF). Procurement (e.g., 3010, 3080), Military Personnel (MILPERS
      (3500)), and Military Construction (MILCON (3300)) appropriations do not utilize
      RC/CC codes.
   5.5. The RC/CC code is a six-position alphanumeric code structure. See paragraph 5.6. of
   this publication for instructions on how to access the official Air Force RC/CC file for a
   description of the 1st and 2nd positions.
4                                                         AMCI65-605 20 OCTOBER 2010


    5.5.1. The third and fourth positions generally represent organizational cost centers and
    are structured as follows (NOTE: These are not all-inclusive.):
       5.5.1.1. XX0XXX series – assigned to identify costs of Air Staff/MAJCOM/Wing
       commanders, Command Staff, Plans and Programs, Financial Management, and
       related organizations. Other organizations include but are not limited to Foreign
       Military Sales and International Programs, Homeland Defense, USAF EC, and Joint
       Matters.
       5.5.1.2. XX1XXX series – assigned to identify costs for activities within the
       Aerospace Operations organizations at all levels, to include but not limited to
       Operations Support, Weather, Missile/Space/Range Operations, Air Control, Tanker
       Airlift    Control      Center,   Combat     Operations,      Weapons       School,
       Intelligence/Surveillance/Reconnaissance, Nuclear and Counter Proliferation,
       Exercise and Joint Operations programs, Information Warfare, and Defense Courier
       Service. NOTE: See paragraph 5.5.1.12. below for 3rd and 4th positions applicable to
       specific AMC-assigned aircraft.
       5.5.1.3. XX2XXX series – assigned to identify costs for activities within the
       Logistics/Maintenance Support organizations at all levels, to include but not limited
       to Logistics Maintenance/Support, Supply, Transportation, Logistics Readiness,
       Maintenance Operations, Munitions, Combat Logistics, Plans and Integration, Depot
       Maintenance activities, and Aerial Port operations.
       5.5.1.4. XX3XXX series – assigned to identify costs for organizations and activities
       that are aligned with Training (Base Education Office, Professional Military
       Education, and other formal training), and Recruiting Services.
       5.5.1.5. XX4XXX series – assigned to identify costs for activities within the Support
       Group organization at all levels to include but not limited to Mission Support,
       Communications, Security Forces, Civil Engineer, Services, Information and
       Technology, Hazardous Materials, Repair Activities, Contracting, Bands, Natural
       Resource Management, Personnel, and Acquisition.
       5.5.1.6. XX5XXX series – assigned to identify costs for activities within the Medical
       organizations at all levels, i.e., medical centers, hospitals, clinics, dental facilities,
       medical services, and administrative-related functions.
       5.5.1.7. XX6XXX series – assigned to identify costs for Defense Investigative
       Service, and Civil Air Patrol organizations.
       5.5.1.8. XX7XXX series – assigned to identify costs for Special Operations/Tactics,
       Combat Employment, Rescue, and Tactical Air Control, and related organizations.
       5.5.1.9. XX8XXX series – assigned to identify costs for Air Force Battle Lab and
       Institute for Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Risk Analysis
       organizations.
       5.5.1.10. XX9XXX series – for AMC, this is limited to costs associated with base-
       wide activities, e.g., prompt payment interest, base-wide personnel readiness unit
       (PRU) orders/contingencies, JCS Exercises, emergency leave, civilian permanent
AMCI65-605 20 OCTOBER 2010                                                                        5


          change-of-station (PCS), local drayage, productivity investments (PIF), FASCAP,
          and mobility systems.
          5.5.1.11. XXAXXX through XXEXXX series – assigned primarily, but not
          necessarily limited to, identify costs for designated Air Force Material Command and
          Electronic Systems Command program office activities.
          5.5.1.12. XXFXXX and XXGXXX series – assigned to identify costs of aircraft
          operations and maintenance organizations for Air Force aircraft-related activities and
          Flight Test Squadrons. The 3rd and 4th positions in these series applicable to AMC
          are FO (C-12), F1 (C-130E), F2 (C-130J), F3 (C-135C), F4, (C-135E), F6 (C-17A),
          F7 (C-20), F8 (C-21), F9 (C-32), FA (C-37), FB (C-38), FC (C-40), FD, (C-5), FE
          (C-9), FF (VC-25A), FS (HH-60), G1 (KC-10), and G2 (KC-135). NOTE: All
          TWCF (Fund Code 68) flying hour RC/CCs must contain an ―E‖, ―G‖, or ―R‖, as
          appropriate, in the 5th position.
          5.5.1.13. XX‖X‖XXX series – assigned to track costs for designated Geographically
          Separated Units (GSU).
          5.5.1.14. XXYXXX and XXZXXX series – assigned to identify costs for the initial
          bedddown and day-to-day operations at designated deployed locations (not applicable
          to AMC).
      5.5.2. The 5th and 6th positions further identify the organization down to its specific
      lowest level.
   5.6. The new Air Force standard RC/CC codes are available on the SAF/FMPSO (AFFSO)
   Hub at https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=AF-FM-XF-01.
   Under ―Systems Services‖ go to ―Data Management‖ select ―RCCC Templates‖ and select
   the Excel file ―USAF Standard RCCC Version.‖ Changes to RC/CCs to further shred specific
   organizational structure at AMC bases/locations or add new 1st/2nd digits must be submitted
   to HQ AMC/FMAO, who will forward the request to SAF/FM Data Panel for evaluation and
   approval. If approved, the request is forwarded to DFAS for validation and subsequent
   update to the FM DQS. Once this process is completed, the SAF/FM Data Panel will notify
   the requestor, through HQ AMC/FMAO, that the new RC/CC is valid and may be utilized.
6. Relationship of RC/CC Codes.
   6.1. When manpower costs are involved, each authorized PE code is furnished through the
   manpower system and is shown on the Unit Manning Document (UMD). A PE code is a six-
   digit code that is the basic building block for identifying resource requirements in the Air
   Force Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE) system. It is defined as "an
   integrated combination of men, equipment, and facilities which together constitute an
   identifiable military capability or support activity." It identifies the mission to be undertaken
   and the organizational entities to perform the mission. Elements may consist of forces,
   manpower, materials, services, and/or associated costs as applicable. In addition to the PE
   code, the UMD shows the Functional Account Code (FAC) and the Organizational Structure
   Code (OSC). The purpose of the FAC is to identify the function of the authorized position on
   the UMD. The 1st four digits of the FAC are established by the Air Staff and the last two
   digits are command-unique, if applicable.
 6                                                            AMCI65-605 20 OCTOBER 2010


     6.2. For a description of Air Force Budget Activity (BA) and Air Force SAGs, see the FM
     Data           Quality         Service            (DQS)            web          site        at
     https://dqs.afbudsys.disa.mil/DataDictionary/ElementChoice. Use the drop down menu in
     the upper left corner of the web site to locate the desired data element and select ―Open List
     as Excel.‖
7. Responsibilities.
     7.1. SAF/FMPT will maintain the master tables for the RC/CC codes. Any proposed
     additions or changes to the basic RC/CC codes must comply with the standardized structure
     (see paragraphs 5.5. and 5.6. above) and be entered into the tables.
     7.2. RC/CC codes are mandatory for all levels of execution.
8. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
     8.1. Prescribed Forms: None
     8.2. Adopted Forms: AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                              MARK ANTHONY BROWN, Colonel, USAF
                                              Director of Financial Management and Comptroller
AMCI65-605 20 OCTOBER 2010                                                            7


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 65-6, Budget, 1 May 1998
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,1 Mar 2008
DoDFMR 7000.14, Volume 1, General Financial Management Information, Systems, and
Requirements
Air Force Records Information Management System: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/
FM Data Quality Service: https://dqs.afbudsys.disa.mil/DataDictionary/ElementChoice
HQ AMC/FM Budget Policy CoP:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=AM-FM-BH-01
SAF/FMPSO (AFFSO) Hub:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=AF-FM-XF-01

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFDD—Air Force Data Dictionary
AFFSO—Air Force Financial Services Office
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMCI—Air Mobility Command Instruction
AMWC—Air Mobility Warfare Center
BA—Budget Activity
CA—Cost Account
CC—Cost Center
DEAMS—Defense Enterprise Accounting and Management System
DFAS—DE—Defense Finance and Accounting Service - Denver
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDFMR—Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation
 8                                                    AMCI65-605 20 OCTOBER 2010


DQS—Data Quality Service
e.g.—exempli gratia (for example, such as)
etc.—et cetera (and so on)
FAC—Functional Account Code
FCC—Functional Category Code
FM—Financial Management (Comptroller)
FMA—Financial Management and Analysis
FMAO—Financial Management and Analysis - Operations
FYDP—Future Years Defense Plan
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HQ—Headquarters
MAJCOM—Major Command
MILCON—Military Construction
MILPERS—Military Personnel
NGB—National Guard Bureau
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OAC—Operating Agency Code
OBAN—Operating Budget Account Number
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSC—Organizational Structure Code
PE—Program Element
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution
RC—Responsibility Center
RC/CC—Responsibility Center/Cost Center
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAG—Sub-Activity Group
STID—Standard Identifier
TACC—Tanker Airlift Control Center
TWCF—Transportation Working Capital Fund
UMD—Unit Manning Document
USAF—United States Air Force
AMCI65-605 20 OCTOBER 2010                             9


USAF EC—United States Air Force Expeditionary Center
WC—Work Center
WCC—Work Center Codes
