BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                        AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                   INSTRUCTION 10-210

                                                                            25 JANUARY 2013

                                                                                     Operations

                                                     STAGE MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AMC/A3CG                                                   Certified by: HQ AMC/A3C
                                                                     (Col Robert H. VanHoose)
Supersedes: AMCI10-210, 27 October 2011
                                                                                     Pages: 37

This instruction is a compilation of directions and procedures which enable Stage Management
Operations. It applies to all personnel assigned to manage aircrew/aircraft stages by
Headquarters, Air Mobility Command, including Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air
National Guard (ANG) personnel. This publication applies to the Air National Guard (ANG)
when published in the ANGIND 2. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes include
updates to current operations and procedures, updates to administrative procedures, office
symbols, and contact information. In addition, it integrates a greater array of Intelligence and
Tactics responsibilities associated with Stage Management Operations.

    1. Introduction                                                                        2
    2. Training.                                                                           3
 2                                                          AMCI10-210       25 JANUARY 2013


      3. Command Relationships.                                                             3
      4. Functions of the Stage Manager.                                                    5
      5. Stage Operations Roles/Responsibilities.                                           7
      6. Operating Location Stage Procedures.                                               9
      7. Reports.                                                                          13
      8. Associated Functional Relationships.                                              15

1. Introduction

     1.1. This instruction is directive for AMC Stage Management Operations. Some situations
     may require deviation from the concepts listed herein. Each stage management operation
     will be built on the basic components that comprise AMC stage management operations,
     processes, and tools that are flexibly tailored to meet each mobility operation’s unique
     mission/flow requirements. Personnel should use sound judgment while complying with
     applicable (AFI) 11-2MDS specific directives, concepts of operations (CONOPS), exercise
     directives, operations orders, and higher headquarters (HHQ) guidance.

     1.2. The waiver authority for this instruction is HQ AMC/A3.

     1.3. A stage operation encompasses the implementation of en route acceleration forces
     which increase the mission velocity of inter/intratheater airlift at “open/closed loop”
     locations (Attachment 1) through the use of prepositioned aircrews to maximize enterprise
     throughput.

     1.4. Aircrew stage managers are normally required for operations consisting of more than
     four aircrews. “CPs/AMCCs [Command Posts/Air Mobility Control Centers] will have
     procedures to ensure controllers can perform stage crew management for aircrew stages
     consisting of four crews or less. Contingency Response forces also maintain the capability to
     provide stage crew management at global mobility locations for four crews or less.
     Additional stage aircrews will require dedicated stage management personnel and equipment.

     1.5. Mobility Aircrew Stage Management personnel and equipment will be provided via the
     7E1AN Unit Type Code (UTC). This package contains personnel and equipment to
     accomplish stage aircrew management functions.               Depending upon mission
     requirements/scope of operations, complex stage management operations may also
     necessitate associate functional expertise such as Intelligence, Tactics, Aircrew Flight
     Equipment (AFE), and/or Combat Crew Communications (CCC). This UTC requires
     Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS) and Base Operating Support (BOS).

     1.6. This publication intentionally excludes guidance regarding aeromedical evacuation (AE)
     mission capabilities, AE crew and critical care air transport team (CCATT) considerations,
     and planning factors relative to AE mission execution. Aircrew stage managers should
     contact the theater Air Operations Centers (AOC’s) Aeromedical Evacuation Coordination
     Team (AECT) (UTC: 7FVML/M) for details regarding AE movements and for the
AMCI10-210     25 JANUARY 2013                                                              3


   Aeromedical Evacuation Operations Team (AEOT) contact information. AEOT personnel
   (UTC: FFQNT) manage all facets of AE crew member and CCATT stage operations, and
   may be collocated with aircrew stage operations. Close coordination between AE and
   aircrew stage management is critical when synchronizing crews and coordinating mission
   execution details. Reference AFPD 10-29, Worldwide Aeromedical Evacuation Operations
   and AFTTP 3-42.5, Aeromedical Evacuation for further guidance.

2. Training.

   2.1. AMC Aircrew Stage Managers will complete the course titled “AMC Stage
   Management (PDS:X0P) NON AE”, prior to deployment. This course is located at the
   Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS) web site (https://golearn.csd.disa.mil),
   select: ADLS Gateway, then AMC Course List, then AMC Operations” This course is
   available to AMC, AFRC, and ANG aircrew members; all 1C* AFSCs; and USAF and
   AMC-Gained Contingency Response Forces.

   2.2. Senior Stage Manager (SSM) Orientation. SSMs will attend an orientation/site visit at
   HQ AMC and 618 AOC (TACC) before initial deployment. OPR is HQ AMC/A3C (DSN
   312-779-1270).

3. Command Relationships.

   3.1. AMC Stage Management Operations. AMC Stage Management Operations are
   planned/ executed by a 618 AOC (TACC) planner. When a stage location is required by 618
   AOC, 18 AF/A3 will coordinate an order directing deployment and movement of stage
   aircrew management personnel. Upon receipt of a stage operations requirement from 18
   AF/A3, AMC/A3CG will source the 7E1AN UTC, Mobility Aircrew Stage Management.
   Tasking occurs via Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segments
   (DCAPES). In a time-critical situation, tasking may be through verbal orders of the
   commander, but will be followed by DCAPES action.

         3.1.1. HQ AMC, Expeditionary Mobility Operations Division, Global Command and
         Control Branch (AMC/A3CG). AMC/A3CG will make every effort to task a complete
         7E1AN UTC for operating locations. The size of the operation will dictate the tasking
         requirement. HQ AMC/A3C may consider tasking a Lieutenant Colonel to fill the
         SSM position depending on nature, size, and scope of operation.

   3.2. 618 AOC (TACC) Stage Managers. 618 AOC Stage Managers are highly trained/
   experienced Command and Control (C2) controllers. They are sourced by and report to the
   618 AOC Command and Control Directorate (XOC). For day-to-day operations, they
   operate in close coordination with the 618 AOC/XOZ “Senior” for mission execution and
   with the Global Readiness Directorate (618 AOC/XOP), Current Operations Directorate (618
   AOC/XOO), and Mobility Management Directorate (618 AOC/XOB) for requirement
   refinement, mission planning and CONOPS development.

   3.3. Deployed Stage Operations Personnel. At operating locations with AMC en route (Air
 4                                                       AMCI10-210       25 JANUARY 2013


     Mobility Operations Wing (AMOW), Air Mobility Operations Group (AMOG), Air Mobility
     Squadron (AMS), Expeditionary Air Mobility Squadron (EAMS), Expeditionary Operations
     Support Squadron (EOSS)) or Mobile C2 forces (i.e., Contingency Response Group, Element
     or Team (CRG/CRE/CRT)), the “Stage” functions under specified Administrative Control
     (ADCON) delegated to the senior AMC commander at the operating location. Command
     relationships will be defined in the 18 AF deployment order (DEPORD) and CONOPS.
     Specified ADCON may include force protection, accountability, discipline, lodging, and
     messing responsibilities. Operationally, the deployed SSM will report directly to the
     commander specified in the DEPORD. Other stage personnel will report to the SSM at the
     deployed location.

        3.3.1. Deployed stage personnel and mission execution remain under the operational
        control (OPCON) of 18 AF/CC exercised through 618 AOC/XOZ. For day-to-day
        operations, deployed stage operations personnel interface with the 618 AOC Stage
        Managers for coordination and mission execution guidance.

        3.3.2. Base Operating Support (BOS). BOS is normally the responsibility of the theater
        host and will be outlined in the contingency operational order (OPORD) and/or
        CONOPS. When deployed support issues or conflicts arise and cannot be resolved by the
        SSM, they will be worked through the designated chain of command. See Figure 1.
        Issues that remain unresolved will be elevated to the 618 AOC Stage Managers for
        assistance/resolution with 618 AOC/XOC, 618 AOC/XOZ, 18 AF/A3 and HQ
        AMC/A3C.

Figure 1. Command Relationships




Note 1: Solid lines depicted in Figure 1 illustrate Specified ADCON (e.g. “care and feeding”
which may include accountability, force protection, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ),
AMCI10-210      25 JANUARY 2013                                                               5


messing, lodging, etc.). The diagram does not depict full command structure, only the necessary
stage interaction. (Detatchment: Det; Operating Location: OL)

Note 2: The acronym AFTRANS = Air Forces Transportation, or 18th AF.

Figure 2. Stage Operations Command and Control /Mission Execution Relationships




Note: Solid lines depicted in Figure 2 illustrate mission execution authority for command and
control decisions concerning AFTRANS aircraft and aircrews.

4. Functions of the Stage Manager.

   4.1. 618 AOC (TACC) Stage Management.

        4.1.1. The 618 AOC SSM is the single point of contact for stage operations matters in
        the 618 AOC (TACC). The SSM can be reached at DSN 312-779-0390, Commercial
        618-229-0390. Duties of the 618 AOC SSM include:

               4.1.1.1. Coordination/adjustment of deployed stage manager manning with 18
               AF/A3M and HQ AMC/A3C.

               4.1.1.2. Coordination/adjustment of stage size/“seed” aircrews with 618
               AOC/XOB.

               4.1.1.3. Advising of stage operations/aircrew impacts for various airflow courses
               of action.

               4.1.1.4. Compilation of aircrew-related statistics/metrics from stage operating
               locations.

        4.1.2. The 618 AOC (TACC) Stage Management staff is a mission execution support
6                                                           AMCI10-210       25 JANUARY 2013


        operation and the operational link between the AOC and all stage operating locations.
        The 618 AOC Stage Managers will:

               4.1.2.1. Function as the information conduit between the Senior Director (618
               AOC/XOZ), the Deputy Director of Operations, and operating location stage
               managers.

               4.1.2.2. Resolve aircrew-mission workload issues at the deployed stage locations
               and help facilitate increased mission velocity by assisting operating location
               stage managers to identify the most efficient use of available stage aircrews.

               4.1.2.3. Identify and coordinate the correction of improperly calculated aircrew
               Scheduled Return Time (SRT) and manage all SRT, and Firm Scheduled Return
               Time (FSRT) limitations IAW AMCI 10-202 Volume 6, Mission Reliability
               Reporting System, AMCI 11-206, Mobility Force Management, and AMCI 11-
               208, Tanker/Airlift Operations.

               4.1.2.4. Interface between 618 AOC/XOB and aircrew home station leadership
               when SRT/FSRT will not be met.

               4.1.2.5. Collect and combine data from stage locations for stage reports (See
               Section 7). These reports will be distributed internally for 618 AOC briefings
               and externally to home station flying units involved in supporting worldwide
               stage operations.

    4.2. Operating Location Stage Managers.

         4.2.1. Interact directly with aircrews to implement HQ AMC policy and procedure and
         618 AOC (TACC) mission execution guidance.

         4.2.2. Senior Stage Manager. The SSM is the focal point for all stage operations at the
         operating location, and is responsible for carrying out 618 AOC mission execution
         guidance. The SSM must ensure provisions for work space, communications, billeting,
         messing, transportation, etc. This may require extensive coordination prior to
         deploying to the operating stage location. In the event a stage is initiated at a deployed
         location lacking existing en route AMCC or C2 facilities, the SSM should make contact
         with leadership from the in-place/deploying Contingency Response (CR) force.

               4.2.2.1. The SSM should be previously qualified in the Mission Design Series
               (MDS)/aircraft platform operated in the stage. The SSM may also be filled by a
               qualified stage manager assigned to an AMC-gained CR force. In the event of
               multi-MDS stages, consideration should be given to the SSM being from the
               MDS with the preponderance of airflow.

               4.2.2.2. The SSM will develop a continuity binder for follow-on stage managers.
               Continuity binders will contain special interest items and other information
AMCI10-210      25 JANUARY 2013                                                               7


               deemed necessary and important by 618 AOC Stage Managers and the operating
               location SSM.

               4.2.2.3. If CR forces are present, the SSM will ensure stage personnel,
               equipment, and a daily operational summary are included in the CR Deployed
               Personnel and Equipment Report and Situation Reports (SITREP).

       4.2.3. Duty Stage Manager (DSM). DSMs are direct representatives of the 618 AOC
       (TACC) to aircrews in the mobility system. They will perform stage management
       duties, to include establishing stage crew priority and posture, setting Legal for Alert
       (LFA) and Legal for Bravo (LFB) times, arranging transportation, directing aircrews to
       storage locations/facilities,briefing crews, and rendering other aircrew ground support
       services. DSMs are also responsible for recording, compiling and reporting aircrew-
       related information to the 618 AOC Stage Managers via the Operating Location Stage
       Report (Section 7.1.1.).

   4.3. Rated Stage Personnel. Rated stage personnel should endeavor to maintain basic flying
   currencies and may also provide DNIF (Duties Not Involving Flying) aircrew coverage. All
   stage manager flying activity is at the discretion of the SSM and in coordination with the en
   route command structure. En route stage operation mission execution duties are the priority
   and must be the primary consideration before flying currency maintenance.

       4.3.1. As adequate opportunity may not exist for active aircrew members to perform
       frequent and regular flight activity and maintain currency when assigned to stage
       management duties, all members tasked to deploy in excess of 90 days will be assigned
       Flying Status Code (FSC) K (Inactive-Lack of Support Capability-Restricted) IAW AFI
       11-401, Aviation Mangement. When assigned FSC K, deployed stage operations
       personnel are not authorized to fly on aircrew orders.

       4.3.2. FSC K assignment for the period of deployment is eligible for Operational Flying
       Duty Accumulation (OFDA) waiver consideration.

5. Stage Operations Roles/Responsibilities.

  5.1. HQ AMC/A3C will source deployed stage management personnel in coordination with
  AMC/A3O (Functional Manager, wing-level rated manpower). AMC/A3O will identify unit
  current tasking levels for A3C's use in determining their sourcing solution. AMC/A3C will
  source operating location stage managers at least 90 days prior to required in-place date, if
  possible.

       5.1.1. The Air Reserve Component (ARC) maintains a significant source of experienced
       stage managers. Contact AFRC Force Generation Cell or National Guard Bureau
       (NGB) Readiness Center for assistance to source 7E1AN requirements.

  5.2. 18 AF/A3M Mission Support personnel conduct requirements planning with the 618
  AOC and assist CONOPS and DEPORD development in support of United States
8                                                           AMCI10-210      25 JANUARY 2013


    Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM) validated strategic airlift missions.

         5.2.1. 618 AOC/XOP and/or 618 AOC/XOO will determine when and where to
         establish stage operations.

                 5.2.1.1. Planners should consider the following when establishing/planning
                 emerging stage operations: expected airflow, number of seed crews, alert
                 posture, SRT/crew cycle time, crew composition (basic vs. augmented), and
                 aircraft/crew positioning/depositioning.

                 5.2.1.2. Planners will ensure coordination with 18 AF/A3 to determine
                 personnel sourcing based on mission requirements.

         5.2.2. 618 AOC/XOB will source aircrews and aircraft for stage operations in
         coordination with 618 AOC/XOP or XOO requirements.

                 5.2.2.1. 618 AOC/XOB will assess aircrew commitment rates and current/
                 projected wing tasking levels. XOB will task wings for stage crews and
                 determine SRT lengths as appropriate.

                 5.2.2.2. Normally, seed crews will not arrive at the designated operating
                 location until the stage management support is in place. Advanced coordination
                 is required with airflow planners for temporary management of aircrews
                 pending stage manager arrival. Mission requirements may dictate that stage
                 managers and aircrews arrive simultaneously.

                 5.2.2.3. 618 AOC/XOB, in coordination with 618 AOC Stage Managers, will
                 approve stage aircrew (seed, inbound, outbound) manning levels. XOB
                 provides guidance for crew release based on wing tasking levels.

         5.2.3. 618 AOC Stage Managers will coordinate with 618 AOC/XOZ and XOB before
         releasing stage aircrews with excessive utilization time remaining prior to SRT.

    5.3. Operating Location Stage Managers.

         5.3.1. SSMs will attend a HQ AMC Senior Stage Manager Orientation/Site Visit hosted
         by AMC/A3C prior to assuming the operating location SSM position. SSMs should
         contact AMC/A3CG (DSN 312-779-1270) and 618 AOC SSM (DSN 312-779-0390)
         when selected for duty.

         5.3.2. Prior to departing home station, all stage managers will:

               5.3.2.1. Review and understand the CONOPS for the contingency or exercise,
               11-2MDS series directives (crew rest, alerting, deadheading, Flight Duty Period
               (FDP), Crew Duty Day (CDD)), expected airflow, size of the stage (seed
               aircrews), hours of operation, and host-base/available support for stage
AMCI10-210     25 JANUARY 2013                                                                  9


             operations.

             5.3.2.2. Contact the Unit Program Account Manager (UPAM) to obtain the
             appropriate systems accounts and accesses (e.g., Global Decision Support System
             (GDSS), Enterprise Information Management (EIM), etc.). Where applicable,
             account permissions must include the “Stage Manager” role as the ability to pull
             workloads, itineraries and Integrated Flight Manager (IFM) packages is critical.
             If the stage manager already possesses an account, ensure the account is active
             and passwords are current. Contact the GDSS help desk (DSN 312-576-4949) or
             visit the website (https://gdssams.maf.ustranscom.mil/gdss2web/) for assistance.

             5.3.2.3. Review cyber-focused threat to their mission at the operating location.
             Adversary Cyber threats and Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs) can be
             obtained via Intelligence channels. Subsequent OPSEC and INFOSEC
             precautions will then be taken in all forms of electronic communication to and
             from the operating location, to include use of personal electronic devices (i.e. Cell
             phones, computers and IPads).

6. Operating Location Stage Procedures.

   6.1. Senior Stage Managers will complete the Stage Manager’s Setup Checklist (Attachment
   3) to ensure the following items are available/coordinated:

       6.1.1. Workspace and aircrew flight planning area. Stage managers should be
       collocated with but physically separated from any local AMC command and control
       function.

       6.1.2. Secure/Non-secure telephone communication. Systems should be capable of
       contacting all host-base agencies and have DSN capability. Secure communications/
       data transmission and data fax capabilities may be required and, if not available in an
       existing C2 organization, are available in the 7E1AN UTC.

       6.1.3. Network access and support (NIPR, SIPR, Broadband Global Area Network
       (BGAN), etc.) for transmission of reports. Secure communication, if required, must be
       provided by the host–base, en route, or deployed contingency response force.

       6.1.4. Billeting for stage operations personnel and aircrews. IAW Joint Federal Travel
       Regulation and AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, billeting will provide effective
       crew rest and meet Air Force standards for aircrew lodging. The SSM should attempt to
       procure the most suitable crew rest facilities available. Quarters should be of sufficient
       quality to provide adequate rest and security for all personnel. In some cases, field
       conditions may be the best available.

              6.1.4.1. Whenever possible, field conditions and open bay barracks should be
              avoided for aircrews due to adverse impact on crew rest.
10                                                      AMCI10-210       25 JANUARY 2013


     6.1.5. Medical facilities. Locate nearest suitable medical facility for Flight Surgeon and
     emergency services. This should be coordinated with AMC medical planners during
     intial planning for stage operations.

     6.1.6. Messing/In-flight meals. 24-hour messing capability may be necessary in the
     event of 24-hour operations.

     6.1.7. Transportation. Timely response and rapid transportation for arriving/alerted
     stage aircrews is essential to maintaining mission velocity. Consider the expected
     airflow to determine number of vehicles and drivers required. Contact local
     transportation agency to determine their ability to support planned airflow. If necessary,
     contact the approved local contracting agency to obtain commercial transportation.

     6.1.8. Storage for weapons, classified materials, mobility bags, aircrew flight
     equipment, and aircrew pro-gear.

     6.1.9. Appropriate worldwide Flight Information Publications (FLIP). AMC FLIP
     account managers (HQ AMC/A3A) may be consulted to establish an account for a
     deployed stage location or to determine the nearest suitable provider.

     6.1.10. Procedures for filing flight plans.

     6.1.11. Aircrew In/Out-Processing Checklists. See Attachment 4.

     6.1.12. Aircrew Stage Brochure. See Attachment 5.

 6.2. Duty Stage Managers. DSMs perform most of the daily stage operation tasks. Duty
 Stage Managers will:

     6.2.1. Ensure the 618 AOC Flight Managers/Mission Planners are aware of particular
     requirements for the transmission of the flight plans, to include e-mail address and fax
     number.

     6.2.2. Establish stage posture. Set LFA or LFB times in accordance with applicable 11-
     2MDS series directives, OPORD, or current command directives.

           6.2.2.1. Bravo Alert provides management flexibility for unscheduled
           requirements, but it is not intended to replace sound stage crew management.

           6.2.2.2. Judicious use of limited numbers of aircrews set LFB is both allowed and
           recommended when situations dictate and appropriate coordination/approval is
           obtained from 618 AOC Stage Managers. This can range from blanket Bravo to
           no crews on Bravo. The duration of the Bravo window may vary. Bravo policy is
           IAW 11-2MDS series directives or as modified by HHQ.

     6.2.3. Develop a crewflow plan covering the next 48-72 hours. When applicable, match
AMCI10-210     25 JANUARY 2013                                                                11


       the most appropriate aircrews to anticipated requirements while adhering to established
       stage priorities. Manage aircrews with the following priority:

              6.2.3.1. Aircrews requiring an emergency return to home station.

              6.2.3.2. Crew SRT, if within 48 hours of SRT.

              6.2.3.3. Crew arrival time. Use First In, First Out (FIFO) to the maximum
              extent possible. Depending upon HHQ policy, strict adherence to FIFO may be
              modified in certain circumstances (i.e. maintaining aircrew directional flow,
              Operational Risk Management (ORM), and special mission requirements).

              6.2.3.4. Match returning wing aircraft with corresponding crews. When the
              airflow allows, match depositioning aircraft and aircrews to their home stations.
              Always seek approval via 618 AOC Stage Managers to ensure proper
              coordination for airflow deviation and early aircrew release.

   6.3. Procedures for Inbound Aircrews:

        6.3.1. Prior to arrival, obtain estimated block time, crew composition, qualification and
        mission number. Block time and mission number are normally passed to the C2 agency
        by the inbound aircrew. Observe Operations Security (OPSEC). Crew composition
        and qualification is published on the flight orders and should be available from GDSS,
        the previous station's C2 agency, or the aircrew's home station.

              6.3.1.1. OPSEC material is unclassified, but sensitive, information valued by the
              enemy for its Intelligence content. Sources include operational or procedural
              indicators inherent to the planning and conduct of operations. Hostile agencies
              will exploit any and all of these sources to their advantage. The proper handling
              of unclassified, but sensitive, information is everyone’s responsibility. OPSEC
              procedures must also be kept in mind when transmitting/communicating all
              unclassified information. Examples of material that must be handled using
              proper OPSEC procedures:            personnel rosters, operation(s) nicknames,
              mission/flight data, work schedule rosters, FOUO information, and any
              document containing Personal Identifiable Information (PII). Stage personnel
              must comply with AMC and stage location OPSEC procedures. As a guideline
              for defining sensitive information refer to the AMC, 618 AOC (TACC) and
              Theater of Operations Critical Informatin Lists (CIL). Review OPSEC guidance
              in the CONOPS, DEPORD, and other Stage documentation. If additional
              information is required, contact the theater AOC or 618 AOC (TACC)/XOOI.

      6.3.2. Plan LFA/LFB-time based on outbound mission requirements. Incorporate
      applicable 11-2MDS series directives or HHQ policies to determine LFA times.

 6.4. When aircrews arrive:
12                                                        AMCI10-210       25 JANUARY 2013


      6.4.1. Complete aircrew in-processing checklist (Sample at Attachment 4).

             6.4.1.1. Identify limiting flying times (56/7 or 30/60/90) for each crew IAW AFI
             11-202V3, General Flight Rules, Chapter 9. Identify additional limiting factors
             that may affect mission assignment.

             6.4.1.2. DSMs will ensure maintenance debriefing is conducted at the termination
             of each sortie/mission or when a sortie/mission is aborted. Aircraft scheduled for
             turn-around sorties/missions need not be debriefed if returned in landing status
             Code 1 or 2. However, debriefing is required, regardless of landing status, after
             the last flight of the day for each aircrew.

     6.4.2. Facilitate in-processing with Personnel Support for Contingency Operations
     (PERSCO) and/or host nation customs (if required).

     6.4.3. Brief local procedures. If necessary, the briefing should include situation update,
     local OPSEC information, transportation, meal availability, local customs/courtesies,
     weapons storage, classified storage, billeting, and any other pertinent items.

     6.4.4. Establish LFA/LFB time. If no requirement exists to set the crew LFA/LFB, the
     crew will be placed in Charlie Alert status until a requirement is identified.

     6.4.5. Brief the expected outbound mission or alert requirement (if known).

6.5. Procedures for Departing Aircrews.

     6.5.1. Complete aircrew out-processing checklist (Attachment 4).

            6.5.1.1. Maintain a copy of aircrew orders, ORM worksheet and checklists for
            minimum of 60 days after crew departure or until the completion of stage
            operations. Records may be maintained either by hard copy or via electronic media,
            IAW AFMAN 33-363 Management of Records. Ensure backup if electronic media
            is used.

            6.5.1.2. Operational Risk Management. IAW AMCI 90-903 Aviation Operational
            Risk Management Program, risk management should be a fully integrated part of
            planning and executing every mission or sortie. At en route stage locations, aircrew
            stage managers will actively assess and mitigate risk for transient stage aircrews.

                    6.5.1.2.1. IAW AMCI 90-903, Section 5.2.1.2.1.2. “If the C2 function is
                    used, then C2 will complete the Tier 3/SQ column of the ORM worksheet
                    when possible and mitigate identified risks prior to crew alert. Examples
                    would include; … stage managers …. If the C2 function is not capable of
                    scoring the Tier 3/SQ column, then the column will remain blank.”

                    6.5.1.2.2. In a dynamic en route environment, stage manager oversight/
AMCI10-210     25 JANUARY 2013                                                                13


                    situational awareness is critical to fusing emerging requirements and
                    aircrew feedback in an attempt to mitigate increasing risk. Specific to
                    Stage Management Operations and the MAF Mission Aviation ORM
                    worksheet, stage aircrew managers will review all applicable/known risk
                    factors for changes and will make specific Tier 3 input on the worksheet at
                    Block 26/27 (Hrs Spent Legal for Alert/Alert Resets). Stage aircrew
                    managers actively mitigate identified risk and pursue optimized crew usage
                    by balancing first-in/first-out and SRT management with the necessity to
                    reprioritize crew alerts. When unable to locally mitigate risk, stage aircrew
                    managers should seek guidance from 618 AOC Stage Management and 618
                    AOC/XOZ.

                    6.5.1.2.3. Approval Authority (618 AOC (TACC)–owned missions).
                    Should elevated Tier 4 (Aircrew) risk assessments necessitate additional
                    ORM approval, signature will be sought by the aircraft commander via 618
                    AOC (TACC) IAW AMCI 90-903, Table 2. Stage aircrew managers do
                    not fall within the approval chain.

       6.5.2. Facilitate local PERSCO out-processing and/or host nation customs (if required).

7. Reports.

  7.1. The 618 AOC (TACC) and Operating Location Stage Managers produce a variety of
  reports which may include but are not limited to the: Operating Location Stage Report, Stage
  Status Report, and Stage Assets Report (by Operating Location or Home Unit). 618 AOC
  Stage Management is the process owner for stage operating location reporting.

       7.1.1. Operating Location Stage Report. This report should be submitted twice daily to
       618 AOC Stage Management by operating location stage managers. The report
       (template at Attachment 6) tracks aircrews and aircraft transiting an en route location
       and will include status of each crew (Legal for Alert, Legal for Bravo, Charlie status, or
       DNIF), planned stage airflow, and history of crews that have departed the stage.
       Operating location stage managers will not alter the report format. Additional data may
       be required at the direction of the 618 AOC Stage Managers.

       7.1.2. Stage Status Report. This report will be generated by 618 AOC Stage
       Management using data collected via the Operating Location Stage Reports. This report
       provides an analysis of stage end strength as compared to the planned seed level.
       Furthermore, it will include the number of additional aircrews and aircraft required,
       stage bed-down (actual aircraft and aircrews currently on the ground) information, and a
       remarks section. The remarks section will include brief explanations for any differences
       between planned and actual numbers, DNIF crews, and unresolved aircraft maintenance
       issues.

       7.1.3. Stage Assets Report. This report will be generated by 618 AOC Stage Managers
       using data collected via the Operating Location Stage Reports. Reports are for
14                                                      AMCI10-210        25 JANUARY 2013


      distribution to home station units by 618 AOC Stage Managers depicting stage assets
      “By Unit” and “By Location.”

      7.1.4. Additional Reports. The quantity and content of reports may vary depending on
      the operation. Requests for additional reports or modification of the reports will be
      coordinated through 618 AOC (TACC) Stage Management in conjunction with 618
      AOC /XOC, 18 AF/A3, and AMC/A3C.

 7.2. Based on information gathered from report submissions, operating location SSMs should
 continually evaluate operations at that location and make appropriate recommendations for
 optimization.

 7.3. Upon completion of operations or individual deployment tour, each operating location
 SSM will forward an After Action Report (AAR) to 618 AOC Stage Management and
 designated en route command oversight/leadership. 618 AOC Stage Managers will distribute
 this report to 18 AF/A3 and AMC/A3C for continuity. Use the template outlined in Section
 7.3.1. for AAR format. IAW AFI 90-1601 AF Lessons Learned Program, SSMs will ensure
 AARs are posted to the Joint Lessons Learned Information System (JLLIS),
 https://www.jllis.mil/USAF/. JLLIS has an email function suitable for disseminating AARs to
 appropriate offices such as 618 AOC (TACC).

      7.3.1. After Action Report should include the following at a minimum:

             7.3.1.1. Subject: Operation Name, Unit, followed by "After Action Report."
             Example: ETAR Stage Management Operations End of Tour/After Action
             Report.

             7.3.1.2. General Description: Short description of the operation, including
             general statements of the scope and purpose. Include an Executive Summary in
             this block if necessary.

             7.3.1.3. Dates: As a minimum, dates of actual operations or SSM tour dates.
             Paragraph will also include deployment, employment, redeployment, or other
             significant dates.

             7.3.1.4. Location of Operations: A short but meaningful list of actual location of
             operations (include remotely managed sites). Primary on/offload, en route
             and/or stage locations should be included.

             7.3.1.5. Objectives: A short but meaningful list of operational objectives.

             7.3.1.6. Operational Accomplishments: Mission execution summary, detailing
             significant operations, operational impact, crew and cargo totals, and missions
             launched.
AMCI10-210      25 JANUARY 2013                                                                    15


               7.3.1.7. Lessons Learned: Specific operational challenges/limitations. Include
               identified best practices and/or recommendations for issue resolution/mitigation.
               Reference AFI 90-1601 for Observation or Lesson Learned Template. Contact
               local Wing Lessons Learned POC or AMC/A9L (amclessonslearned@scott.af.mil)
               for assistance in writing observations and recommendations as well as entry into the
               Joint Lessons Learned Information System (JLLIS).

               7.3.1.8. AAR POC: AAR writer’s Name, Duty Title, Office Symbol, Duty
               Location, Commercial/DSN phone numbers, and email.

8. Associated Functional Relationships.

   8.1. Intelligence

       8.1.1. General. Aircrews operating from stage locations will require intelligence
       support to effectively execute both intra- and intertheater missions. Accurate, timely,
       and fused intelligence analysis of threat capabilities and intentions is critical to strategic,
       operational, and tactical level planning. Integration of intelligence and tactics must take
       place throughout the entire process of mission planning. In order to foster integration
       and communication, intelligence and tactics offices will be collocated to the maximum
       extent possible.

       8.1.2. AMC Stage Intelligence Responsibilities:

              8.1.2.1. Each AMC Stage organization, AMOW or Air Expeditionary Group
              (AEG), will have a Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO) who will report directly to
              the commander (AMOW/CC or AEG/CC). The AMOW or AEG SIO will be
              responsible for ensuring all intelligence personnel assigned to support stage
              operations adhere to AFI 14-202V3, General Intelligence Rules, and applicable
              14-2MDSV3 series. In cases where new stage locations stand up, the stage Intel
              personnel will report to either the theater AMOW SIO or the AEG SIO, scenario
              dependent. The SIO will be responsible for all intelligence personnel assigned to
              the AMOW/AEG. Intelligence personnel geographicaly separated from the SIO
              will report to the AMS, EAMS, or EOSS Commander.

              8.1.2.2. The SIO will provide oversight of unit intelligence personnel, ensuring
              standardization among wing/group intelligence products and coordination with
              tactics personnel as appropriate. The SIO will also work closely with the
              AMC/A2 staff, coordinating threat analysis and reporting issues, as well as
              requirements for systems integration management.

       8.1.3. Stage intelligence personnel will support 24/7 flying operations IAW theater
       directives. Timely, accurate threat information will be used to safeguard aircrews, and
       unit intelligence personnel will place special emphasis on threat analysis, crew
       briefings/debriefings, and event reporting. Specific stage intelligence responsibilities
       will include:
16                                                       AMCI10-210       25 JANUARY 2013



            8.1.3.1. Performing appropriate research, analysis and dissemination of all
            incoming information and intelligence. Intelligence must include cyber-specific
            threats and subsequent adversary TTPs. Intelligence personnel will analyze
            impact on the unit’s mission and rapidly disseminate significant intelligence to (as
            applicable) aircrew/operators, mission planning personnel, subordinate and lateral
            units, higher headquarters and other appropriate agencies.

            8.1.3.2. Ensuring all crews receive pre-mission briefings IAW the MDS-specific
            AFI 14-2 volumes.

            8.1.3.3. Ensuring all missions are debriefed and all events are reported IAW the
            Mobility Air Force Intelligence Reporting Directive (MIRD). Crew debriefings
            will follow applicable 14-2MDSV3 checklists. Intelligence personnel will report
            all relevant events via MISREP within appropriate timeliness standards per the
            MIRD and theater directives.

     8.1.4. AMC/A2FR Deployments and Readiness office (DSN 312-779-4574/4729 or
     NIPR amc.a2fr.dr@scott.af.mil, SIPR amc.a2fr@scott.af.smil.mil) is responsible for
     tasking stage intelligence personnel. The primary UTC that will be tasked is the PF3M1
     (1 x 14N3 officer, 1 x 1N051 enlisted) as part of a lead package. If additional personnel
     are required based on mission requirements, either another PF3M1 or PF3M2 (1 x
     1N071, 1 x 1N051) will be tasked depending on the grade/AFSC mix desired. If
     Intelligence equipment is required, AMC/A2FR will task a PFMAH (pare/tailored at unit
     discretion). If stage intelligence personnel are deployed to a location with no SIPR
     connectivity, a PFMAK UTC (Deployable Intelligence System Kit – INMARSAT or
     BGAN in the future) may be tasked as required.

     8.1.5. Intelligence personnel will provide PR Operational Support IAW AFI 16-1301,
     Survival, Evasion, Resistance, And Escape (SERE) Program, AFI 14-202 V3, and the
     appropriate AFI 14-2MDS V3’s. All PR Operational Support responsibilities for SERE,
     AFE, and Intelligence personnel will be delineated in writing at each stage location. All
     Intelligence personnel providing PR Operational Support must be S-V80-A graduates,
     IAW AFI 16-1301.

 8.2. Tactics

     8.2.1. AMC Stage Tactics Manning:

            8.2.1.1. Each AMC Stage organization, AMOW, AEG, or EOSS will have a
            senior tactician (ST) who will report directly to the commander (AMOW/CC,
            AEG/CC, or EOSS/CC). The ST will be responsible for all wing or group tactics
            processes documented in AMCI 11-207, Command Weapons and Tactics
            Program, and all stage tactics personnel will report to the ST.

            8.2.1.2. AMC/A3OO Current Operations Branch office (DSN 779-3997/3966 or
AMCI10-210      25 JANUARY 2013                                                                17


             NIPR        amc.a33@us.af.mil,     SIPR       amc.a33@amc.af.smil.mil        SIPR
             amc.a33@amc.af.smil.mil) tasks stage tactics personnel on behalf of AMC/A3D.
             The primary UTCs to be tasked are XMCA3 and XMCA4 (Airlift) or XMCT4
             (Tankers), depending on the type of stage being supported. The stage tactics office
             will be manned with adequate personnel to support 24/7 flying operations IAW
             theater directives.

                      8.2.1.2.1. The ST of a stage tactics office should be a Weapons Officer
                      (WO). If not a WO, the ST will be a graduate of Combat Aircrew Tactics
                      School-Mobility Electronic Combat Officer Course (CATS-MECOC)
                      and an instructor. The ST must be current and qualified in the airframe
                      that is primarily supported by the stage. The ST must have recent
                      operational experience (within 6 months) in the supported theater/Area of
                      Responsibility (AOR)/environment.

                      8.2.1.2.2. Additional tactics manning should consist of fully current and
                      qualified aircraft commanders with previous tactics expertise (at
                      home/deployed unit) and recent operational experience (within 6 months)
                      in the supported theater/AOR/environment. Additional stage tactics
                      members should have completed Basic Aircrew Tactics Studies (BATS)
                      training, but at a minimum, will be enrolled in BATS.

                      8.2.1.2.3. AMC/A3OO, AMC/A3D and the tasked wing will coordinate
                      waivers prior to AMC/A3OO tasking through DCAPES.

           8.2.1.3. The ST will provide oversight of unit tactics personnel, ensuring
           standardization among wing/group/AOR tactics products and coordination with
           intelligence personnel as appropriate. The ST will also work closely with the
           AMC/A3DT staff, coordinating threat analysis and risk mitigation management
           using appropriate airfield matrix guidance.

   8.2.2. AMC Stage Tactics Responsibilities:

           8.2.2.1. To foster integration and communication, tactics and intelligence offices
           will be co-located to the maximum extent possible. As a minimum, stage tactics
           personnel will provide aircrews transiting their stage a tactics brief during the alert
           sequence. Tactics briefings will be coordinated and integrated with the aircrew
           intelligence briefing and tactics will attend the intelligence portion of the briefing.
           Additionally, if the aircrew is filing a MISREP, stage tactics personnel will attend
           the debriefing.

           8.2.2.2. Stage tactics should follow all appropriate tactics documents when
           organizing, equipping, manning, building, and executing stage tactics functions.
           Stage tactics will maintain at a minimum electronic copies of the following:
           AFTTP 3-1. General Planning; AFTTP 3-1. Threat Guide; AFTTP 3-1.MDS and
18                                                AMCI10-210       25 JANUARY 2013


     AFTTP 3-3.MDS (for supported airframes); AMC OPORD; AMCI 11-207; and all
     appropriate theater guidance.

     8.2.2.3. Stage tactics offices will focus their attention on Air Tasking Order
     (ATO)/Airspace Coordination Order (ACO)/Special Instructions (SPINS), Giant
     Reports, Notices to Airmen (NOTAMS), AOR specific products, etc. for aircrews
     flying missions into the AOR from the Combat Entry Point to the Combat Exit
     Point. The Digital Tactics Binder (DTB) is an efficient way of managing and
     presenting the most current mission related information to aircrews. All stage
     tactics shops will be capable of updating a DTB if requested by the aircrews. If
     stage operations are being conducted within an AOR managed by an AOC, it is
     essential the mission information provided to stage aircrews matches AOR
     developed products. The following information should be produced by Stage
     Tactics in conjunction with Stage Managers and mission planners deployed in
     support of stage operations.

              8.2.2.3.1. Air Tasking Order (ATO). Extract information for stage
              aircrews flying into the AOR. Weapons and Tactics Officers need to
              have contact with the AOC to ensure stage missions are incorporated into
              the ATO.

              8.2.2.3.2. Airspace Control Order (ACO). It is essential aircrews
              understand the airspace structural procedures and applicable restrictions
              before flying into the AOR. If airspace procedures significantly differ
              from Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs) or International Civil
              Aviation Organization (ICAO) Standard and Recommended Practices
              (SARPs), stage aircrews must understand the differences.

              8.2.2.3.3. Special Instructions (SPINS) Information. Extract relevant
              data for stage aircrews. Stage aircrews must understand applicable
              sections related to airlift operations, command and control,
              communications, defensive system employment, airspace, and personnel
              recovery.

              8.2.2.3.4. Flight Plans, Charts, Notice to Airmen (NOTAMS), and
              Weather (WX). Weapons and Tactics officers will work in conjunction
              with Stage Managers to ensure these duties are evenly distributed.

              8.2.2.3.5. Airfield Information. This includes information on the most
              likely landing airfields. Include runway imagery or airfield diagrams at a
              minimum.

              8.2.2.3.6. Runway information, terrain, bullseye information, Risk
              Assessment Database (RAD) information, Giant Reports, Landing Zone
              (LZ) surveys, avoid areas, and no-fly areas. Weapons and Tactics Flights
AMCI10-210     25 JANUARY 2013                                                               19


                    should review and brief any pertinent Terminal Instrument Procedures
                    (TERPS) information to aircrews.

                    8.2.2.3.7. Communication Information. This should include
                    communication cards, expected frequencies, brevity codes, C2 and en
                    route reporting procedures and frequencies.

                    8.2.2.3.8. Slot Times and Cargo Frags (verify this information has been
                    provided by the Stage Managers).

                    8.2.2.3.9. Threat Information. In conjunction with stage intelligence
                    personnel, determine and obtain all air, ground, sea, space and
                    information threats of relevance to the required mission from all
                    attainable sources and assist Intelligence personnel in ensuring all aircrew
                    members receive threat briefs and updates. Stage tactics will aid the
                    aircraft commander in determining the appropriate tactics, techniques and
                    procedures to mitigate threat and minimize risk. This information should
                    include primary and divert airfields, air refueling tracks, and high threat
                    areas where aircrews may be required to fly.

                    8.2.2.3.10. Lessons Learned Read File. This read file should include
                    lessons learned concerning ground, en route, communication and airfield
                    operations/procedures as well as employment versus AOR threat systems.
                    This should be kept readily available for Weapons and Tactics officers
                    and aircrew members.

          8.2.2.4. Deployments to stage tactics positions are inherently a non-flying
          deployment; however, stage tactics personnel may perform AOR site visits and
          operational assessments on Mission Essential Personnel (MEP) orders. These
          missions will be accomplished based on mission need or as requested by HQ AMC
          or 618 AOC (TACC). All flying operations by stage tactics personnel will be
          approved by the commander of the stage organization (AMOW/CC, AEG/CC,
          EOSS/CC, or the SSM). MEP approval will be sought from 618 AOC/XOZ (Senior
          Controller) IAW AFI 11-401.

  8.3. Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE)

    8.3.1. General. AFE personnel supporting AMC Stage Operations will be aligned under
    the applicable en route structure.

          8.3.1.1. AFE Management, AMC/A3TL, (DSN 312-779-3616/2776 or NIPR
          AMC.A3TL@amc.af.mil, SIPR AMC.A3TL@amc.af.smil.mil) is responsible for
          tasking stage AFE personnel. The primary UTC that will be tasked is a 9AL* series
          package. If additional personnel are required, coordination will be made with the
          AMC AFE tasking Functional Area Manager (FAM) for desired grade/AFSC mix.
          If AFE equipment is required, A3TL will task accordingly.
20                                                       AMCI10-210       25 JANUARY 2013



           8.3.1.2. Each stage operation will have an AFE NCOIC. The AFE NCOIC will
           report directly to the senior AMC commander (AMOW/CC, AEG/CC, or EOSS/CC)
           at that location. The AFE NCOIC will be responsible for all stage AFE processes
           and should work specified ADCON issues through their en route chain of command
           (as outlined in the CONOPS and/or DEPORD). AFE issues will be coordinated
           through the home station Superintendent. Unresolved issues will be forwarded to
           HQ AMC/A3TL.

           8.3.1.3. Deployed AFE personnel will exercise responsibilities outlined in AFI 11-
           301 Volume 1, Aircrew Flight Equipment Program, and applicable supplements,
           technical orders, and operating instructions.

     8.3.2. AFE NCOIC Responsibilities:

           8.3.2.1. Ensure adequate funding is available to support the AFE program and
           ensure the establishment of equipment/supply accounts to manage equipment items
           and conduct proper maintenance. Resolve problems through the local en
           route/deployed command structure.

                    8.3.2.1.1. Coordinate with home station and deployed units to ensure
                    appropriate equipment and supplies are available.

           8.3.2.2. Ensure redeploying AFE personnel complete turnover duties with inbound
           personnel. Utilize NCOIC turnover checklist (see AFI 11-301). This checklist can
           be tailored to each specific deployed location.

           8.3.2.3. Ensure UTC manning requirements are met at each stage location.

           8.3.2.4. Monitor electronic technical order program and distribute technical order
           changes as required.

           8.3.2.5. Forward all messages from AMC/A3TL as required.

           8.3.2.6. Ensure deployed personnel comply with this instruction.

           8.3.2.7. Inform the applicable command structure of all situations that affect AFE
           operations.

           8.3.2.8 Complete after action/trip reports and forward to AMC/A3TL for review.

                   8.3.2.8.1. The trip report should include observations, limiting factors,
                   lessons learned, recommendations and achievements while participating in
                   deployed operations.

          8.3.2.9. Maintain equipment accountability.
AMCI10-210   25 JANUARY 2013                                                                   21



        8.3.2.10. Maintain a continuity binder containing (at a minimum):

                 8.3.2.10.1. This instruction.

                 8.3.2.10.2. Stage Operations AFE personnel roster.

                 8.3.2.10.3. AFI 11-301, Volumes 1 and 2, Maintenance and Configuration
                 Requirements for Mobility Air Forces Aircrew and Aircraft Installed
                 Aircrew Life Support Equipment, and AFI 11-301 Volume 1, AMC
                 Supplement, Aircrew Flight Equipment Program, (may be filed digitally).

                 8.3.2.10.4. Trip reports from the stage locations (may be filed digitally).

                 8.3.2.10.5. Other additional information that may be pertinent.

       8.3.2.11. Ensure inspection and maintenance of AFE is accomplished IAW technical
       orders, AFIs and local directives.

       8.3.2.12. Establish and maintain operating instructions specific to each deployed
       location.

       8.3.2.13. Contact the local AOR AFE Superintendent (AFES) within five duty days of
       arrival for any required information that may need to be included per SPINS.

       8.3.2.14. Coordinate with operations (aircrew stage and maintenance) schedulers to
       support flying operations.

       8.3.2.15. Ensure AFE section is manned to support daily operations. Aircrew should
       not have to call AFE personnel for assistance. If more personnel are required, contact
       AMC/A3TL at DSN 312-779-2776.

       8.3.2.16. Ensure current file of regulations, instructions and technical orders are
       available for use (may be maintained electronically).

       8.3.2.17. Ensure sufficient quantities of equipment are available to support mission
       requirements.

       8.3.2.18. Coordinate with maintenance supervision to perform routine AFE inspection
       on transient aircraft-installed equipment.

       8.3.2.19. Establish and/or maintain the Automated Life-sustaining Equipment Records
       and Tracking System (ALERTS) or local spreadsheet for AFE inspections to ensure
       that no discrepancies exist.

       8.3.2.20. Maintain accurate and current records for all deployed AFE. Coordination
22                                                      AMCI10-210        25 JANUARY 2013


       with home unit must be accomplished to ensure equipment inspections are tracked in a
       timely manner.

       8.3.2.21. Perform mission termination inspections (MTI) at the end of each mission.
       Use approved home unit MTI form.

       8.3.2.22. Perform a self-assessment inspection within the first 15 days of arrival at
       stage operating location. Keep all copies of the self-assessment on file for two years.

       8.3.2.23. All deployed units will ensure all AFE related issues are channeled through
       the home station AFES, and forwarded as applicable to AMC/A3TL.

       8.3.2.24. Utilize applicable cost per flying hour funds for AFE equipment or
       components as needed. Generally, the en route maintenance squadron can assist with
       ordering supplies.

       8.3.2.25. Ensure sufficient quantities of equipment, parts, and supplies are on hand to
       meet mission requirements.

       8.3.2.26. Ensure items listed in the logistics detail (LOGDET) match with items
       stored in mobility package and that shortfalls are on order to replenish the mobility
       bin.

       8.3.2.27. Each deployed AFE section should deploy with, and maintain a 30-day
       contingent of supplies in the mobility package.

       8.3.2.28. Perform 180-day inspection of mobility bin to ensure it is fully stocked.

       8.3.2.29. Ensure aircrew/aircraft are properly supported at their location and up-
       channel problems to the en route chain of command as applicable.

       8.3.2.30. Establish a memorandum of agreement for outside agency support (test,
       measurement, and diagnostic equipment, medical supply, etc.) with host wings to
       define roles and responsibilities. NCOIC will forecast, budget, and use highest
       priority allowed for supplies and will not rely on host wing AFE for parts unless
       supply difficulties exist.

 8.4. Combat Crew Communications

     8.4.1. General. Aircrews operating from stage locations may require Combat Crew
     Communications (CCC) support to effectively execute both intra- and intertheater
     missions. CCC personnel should only be deployed to meet mission requirements for
     extended and sustained flying operations from the staging location.

     8.4.2. CCC Responsibilities:
AMCI10-210     25 JANUARY 2013                                                            23


             8.4.2.1. Support flying operations IAW theater directives. Timely, accurate
             communication codes and information will be used to safeguard aircrews, ensure
             mission success with proper COMSEC (communications security) material and
             equipment usage, handling and storage procedures.

             8.4.2.2. Support IAW AFI 11-244, Instructions for CCC, and AMCI 10-450,
             Support of Nuclear Planning and Operations. All CCC personnel must possess
             special experience identifier 240, Combat Crew Comm.

             8.4.2.3. Assemble communications kits and prepare communications briefings
             when required. A communications kit consists of required COMSEC and
             classified documents, support equipment (i.e., AN/CYZ-10, etc.), and FLIPs in
             support of the mission.

             8.4.2.4. Issue and recover communications kits from aircrews and serve as the
             after-hours issue point.

             8.4.2.5.    Extract and issue Identification, Friend or Foe (IFF)/Selective
             Identification Feature (SIF) codes per applicable directives.

             8.4.2.6. Assist in developing the communications portion of the Unit Mission
             Briefing (UMB) and Initial Sortie Study (ISS), and alert briefings, as required.

             8.4.2.7. Maintain and issue current FLIPs.

     8.4.3. CCC are tasked via the 6KNZ6 (2 x 3D0X3 with SEI 240 enlisted) UTC. If stage
     CCC personnel are employed, a 2 or 4-drawer safe (depending on the amount of
     classified material to be stored), classified shredder, SIPR, NIPR and Secure Terminal
     Equipment (STE) access will need to be provided.




                                                 SCOTT P. GOODWIN, Brig Gen, USAF
                                                 Director of Operations
 24                                                     AMCI10-210      25 JANUARY 2013


                                       Attachment 1
      GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, TERMS AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 10-207, Command Posts, 4 April 2008
AFI 10-207, AMC Supplement, Command Posts, 1 February 2012
AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), 8 June 2011
AFI 11-202V3, General Flight Rules, 22 October 2010
AFI 11-244, Instructions for Combat Crew Communications (FOUO), 23 May 2012
AFI 11-2MDS Series
AFI 11-301V1, Aircrew Flight Equipment Program, 25 February 2009
AFI 11-301V1, AMC Supplement, Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) Program, 23 February 2010
AFI 11-301V2, Maintenance and Configuration Requirements for Mobility Air Forces (MAF)
Aircrew and Aircraft-Installed Aircrew Life Support Equipment, 1 May 2006
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 10 December 2010
AFI 14-2MDS Series Volume 3, Unit Intelligence Procedures
AFI 14-202V3, General Intel Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (SERE) Program, 6 September 2006
AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, 11 November 2007
AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program, 22 September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFTTP 3-42.5, Aeromedical Evacuation (AE), 1 November 2003
AMCI 10-202V4, Expeditionary Air Mobility Support Operations, 2 December 2009
AMCI 10-450, (S) Support of Nuclear Planning and Operations, 11 February 2011
AMCI 11-206, Mobility Force Management, 1 June 1999
AMCI 11-207, Weapons and Tactics Program, 7 October 2011
AMCI 11-208, Tanker/Airlift Operations, 1 June 2000
AMCI 90-903, Aviation Operational Risk Management (AVORM) Program, 5 November 2007

Prescribed Forms
None
AMCI10-210     25 JANUARY 2013                                              25


Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
618 AOC (TACC) - 618th Air and Space Operations Center (Tanker Airlift Control
Center)
AAC – Aircrew Availability Chart
AAR - After Action Report
ACO - Airspace Coordination Order
ADCON - Administrative Control
AE - aeromedical evacuation
AECT - Aeromedical Evacuation Coordination Team
AEG - Air Expeditionary Group
AEOT - Aeromedical Evacuation Operations Team
AFE - Aircrew Flight Equipment
AFES - AFE Superintendent
AFMAN - Air Force Manual
AFRC - Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS - Air Force Records Information Management System
AFTRANS - Air Forces Transportation, or 18th AF
ALERTS - Automated Life-sustaining Equipment Records and Tracking System
AMOG - Air Mobility Operations Group
AMOW - Air Mobility Operations Wing
AMS - Air Mobility Squadron
ANG - Air National Guard
AOC - Air Operations Centers
AOR - Area of Responsibility
ARC - The Air Reserve Component
ATO - Air Tasking Order
BATS - Basic Aircrew Tactics Studies
BGAN - Broadband Global Area Network
BOS - Base Operating Support
 26                                                 AMCI10-210   25 JANUARY 2013


C2 - Command and Control
CATS-MECOC - Combat Aircrew Tactics School-Mobility Electronic Combat Officer
Course
CCATT - Crew and Critical Care Air Transport Team
CCC - Combat Crew Communications
CDD - Crew Duty Day
CIL - Critical Informatin Lists
COMSEC - Communications Security
CONOPS - Concepts of Operations
CPs/AMCCs - Command Posts/Air Mobility Control Centers
CR - Contingency Response (CR) force
CRG/CRE/CRT - Contingency Response Group, Element or Team
DEPORD - Deployment Order
DNIF - Duties Not Involving Flying
DSM - Duty Stage Manager
DTB - Digital Tactics Binder
EAMS - Expeditionary Air Mobility Squadron
ECS - Expeditionary Combat Support
EIM - Enterprise Information Management
EOSS - Expeditionary Operations Support Squadron
FAA - Federal Aviation Regulations
FAM - Functional Area Manager
FDP - Flight Duty Period
FIFO - First In, First Out
FLIP - Flight Information Publications
FSC - Flying Status Code
FSRT - Firm Scheduled Return Time
GDSS - Global Decision Support System
HHQ - higher headquarters
ICAO - International Civil Aviation Organization
IFF - Identification, Friend or Foe
AMCI10-210      25 JANUARY 2013                              27


IFM - Integrated Flight Manager
INFOSEC – Information Security
ISS - Initial Sortie Study
LFA - Legal for Alert
LFB - Legal for Bravo
LOGDET - logistics detail
LZ - Landing Zone
MDS - Mission Design Series
MEP - Mission Essential Personnel
MIRD - Mobility Air Force Intelligence Reporting Directive
MTI - mission termination inspections
NGB - National Guard Bureau
NOTAMS - Notices to Airmen
OFDA - Operational Flying Duty Accumulation
OPCON - operational control
OPORD - operational order
OPR - Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC - Operations Security
ORM - Operational Risk Management
PERSCO - Personnel Support for Contingency Operations
RAD - Risk Assessment Database
RDS - Records Disposition Schedule
SARPs - Standard and Recommended Practices
SERE - Survival, Evasion, Resistance, And Escape
SIF - Selective Identification Feature
SIO - Senior Intelligence Officer
SITREP - Situation Reports
SPINS - Special Instructions
SRT - Scheduled Return Time
SSM - Senior Stage Manager
STE - Secure Terminal Equipment
 28                                                           AMCI10-210        25 JANUARY 2013


TACC - Tanker/Airlift Control Center
TERPS - Terminal Instrument Procedures
TTP - Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
UMB - Unit Mission Briefing
UPAM - Unit Program Account Manager
USTRANSCOM - United States Transportation Command
UTC - Unit Type Code
WO - Weapons Officer
WX - Weather
XOB - Mobility Management Directorate
XOC - Command and Control Directorate
XOO - Current Operations Directorate
XOP - Global Readiness Directorate
XOZ – TACC Senior


Terms
Aircrew Availability Chart (AAC) – The AAC depicts aircrew availability to ensure effective
crew utilization. If used properly, the visual/graphical depiction will help to identify
inefficiencies, gaps, or mistakes when scheduling stage aircrews (See Attachment 2).
Bravo Alert – an increased readiness posture. An aircraft or aircrew capable of launching IAW
the associated AFI 11-2MDS series V3. Crew members are given 12 hours of pre-standby crew
rest. Crews are legal for alert after pre-standby crew rest. Pre-flight duties, if required, interrupt
crew rest. A crew will not stay on Bravo standby duty for more than 48 hours. After 48 hours,
the crew must be launched, released, or entered into pre-departure crew rest.

Charlie Alert – this is the lowest readiness posture. An identified aircrew capable of entering
crew rest IAW the associated AFI 11-2MDS series V3. Charlie alert will not exceed 72 hours.
If retained for a 72-hour period, crew members will be released for 12 hours before resuming
Charlie standby force duty, entering crew rest for mission, or entering the 12 hours of pre-
standby crew rest for Bravo standby force duty.

Closed Loop System – locations served by extended SRT aircrews. The closed loop system is
primarily intratheater in nature encompassing multimodal/strategic transload operations or
Expeditionary Airlift Squadron/Theater Direct Delivery missions.
Crew Duty Time (CDT) – period of time an aircrew may perform combined ground/flight
duties. Plan the mission so aircrew members may complete post-mission duties within
maximum CDT. See AFI 11-2MDS series V3 for maximum times.
AMCI10-210       25 JANUARY 2013                                                               29


Firm Scheduled Return Time (FSRT) – for active duty stage crews is SRT plus 48 hours.
FSRT for ANG and AFRC not on long term military personnel appropriation (MPA) orders is
defined as SRT plus 24 hours.
Flight Duty Period (FDP) – time period between mission reporting and final aircraft shutdown
See AFI 11-2MDS series V3 for maximum times.
Green Crews – home station originating aircrews, bound for the en route system, under the
mission execution/command and control of 618 AOC (TACC). These aircrews are not assigned
to the Expeditionary Airlift Squadrons. These crews are on variable SRTs and primarily perform
intertheater airlift in the open loop system.
Latest Allowable Alert Time – for all missions is six hours after the expected alert time. This is
referred to as “burning the crew” or “burning the crew in the window.” If circumstances
warrant, the Aircraft Commander may extend the window to eight hours. If the crew is traveling
as passengers (not on flight orders, aka: deadheading), the aircraft commander can further extend
the window to a total of 12 hours. C2 agencies are not permitted to ask/encourage the aircraft
commander to agree to this extension.
Legal for Alert (LFA) – all aspects of an upcoming mission (i.e. aircrew, aircraft, receiver,
maintenance, cargo, weather, diplomatic clearance, etc.) are or will be ready for a scheduled
launch and the crew has been notified. The LFA is based on scheduled alert time and is different
for each MDS. Refer to AFI 11-2MDS series for specific times.
Open Loop System – traditional intertheater airlift operations, originating from the Continental
U.S. (CONUS), flying through an en route stage location before returning to CONUS. Open
loop system is primarily intertheater in nature.
Scheduled Return Time (SRT) – calculated based on initial Zulu-day departure from home
station. Reference OPORD guidance.

Seed crew calculation – a method for determining the appropriate number of seed crews is to
multiply the anticipated missions per day by a numerical factor based on historical crew
utilization. The most commonly used factors are 0.6, 0.7, and 0.8. The 0.6 factor has been used
during times of stable, predictable mission flow. The 0.7 factor is commonly used to account for
minor or temporary flow disruptions. Use a factor of 0.8 for large, variable mission flows or
when missions routinely require augmentation or maximum crew duty days. If the result is a
decimal, always round up.
Seed Crews – prepositioned stage aircrews. To calculate the stage seed, subtract total aircrews
from number of aircraft assigned to the operating location (results in greater than a 1:1 crew to
tail ratio). The seed is established by 618 AOC/XOB in coordination with the 618 AOC
planning directorates and 618 AOC Stage Management.
Tan Crews – deployed Expeditionary Airlift Squadron aircrews; typically deployed performing
intratheater airlift/theater direct delivery.
 30                                                     AMCI10-210       25 JANUARY 2013


                                       Attachment 2
                          AIRCREW AVAILABILITY CHART

Figure A2.1. Sample AircrewAvailability Chart




Note 1. Attempt to have more than one crew LFA for every mission, provided the airflow
supports such a posture. For example, “Crew A” is primary for Mission 2 and back-up for
mission Mission 1; “Crew B” is primary for Mission 3 and back-up for Mission 2. To
accomplish this, you may not want to set a crew's LFA time so as to cover only its primary
mission. Overlapping alert windows is an efficient way to set up any stage, given reasonably
reliable flow information.

Note 2. Without accurate information, you will find that you must match crews to the missions
you think are reliable and then schedule an even spread of crews throughout the day, with as
many LFA at all times as possible. This may result in deviations to your FIFO strategy.
Consider the use of Bravo crews (“Crew C”) to cover unstable mission flow, gaps in crew
availability, or unsuitable circadian rhythms.
AMCI10-210    25 JANUARY 2013                            31


                                    Attachment 3
                SAMPLE STAGE MANAGER'S SETUP CHECKLIST

Figure A3.1. Sample Stage Manager’s Setup Checklist
32   AMCI10-210   25 JANUARY 2013
AMCI10-210     25 JANUARY 2013                             33


                                    Attachment 4
              SAMPLE AIRCREW IN/OUT-PROCESSING CHECKLIST

Figure A4.1. Sample Aircrew In/Out-Processing Checklist
 34                                               AMCI10-210   25 JANUARY 2013


                                   Attachment 5
                     SAMPLE AIRCREW STAGE BROCHURE

Figure A5.1. Sample Aircrew Stage Brochure
AMCI10-210   25 JANUARY 2013   35
36   AMCI10-210   25 JANUARY 2013
AMCI10-210    25 JANUARY 2013                            37


                                    Attachment 6
              OPERATING LOCATION STAGE REPORT TEMPLATE

Figure A6.1. Operating Location Stage Report Template
