BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                            INSTRUCTION 90-2
                                                                                   1 DECEMBER 2002

                                                                                       Command Policy

                                                    GLOBAL REACH PLANNING CENTER (GRPC)
                                                                 POLICY AND PROCEDURES

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AMC/DSG (CMSgt Wiederholt)                             Certified by: HQ AMC/DS (Col Pereira)
Supersedes AMCI 90-2, 1 November 1999                                                       Pages: 5
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction implements Global Reach Planning Center (GRPC) Policy and Procedures for scheduling
and utilizing the GRPC. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

Some operating system and equipment changes were made. Some of the changes are attendance numbers,
Microsoft Office 97 was changed to Microsoft Office 2000, 8mm equipment deleted, Betacam equipment
was deleted and Paragraph/sub-paragraph number changes.


1. Policy. The AMC Director of Staff (HQ AMC/DS) operates the GRPC for the AMC Commander and
staff. AMC policy is to hold major conferences, seminars, and workshops at AMC facilities, unless
unusual circumstances dictate. GRPC supports conference requests, on a first-come, first-served basis,
for the Department of Defense (DoD) and any other US Government agencies. The US Transportation
Command (USTRANSCOM) and AMC command sections are exceptions to this policy and have prece-
dence in scheduling GRPC facilities. The chief of the GRPC has approval and disapproval authority for
scheduling conflicts. Quarterly meetings, monthly, and other routine gatherings of organizations assigned
to Scott AFB will be scheduled on a space available basis.

2. Concept of Operations. GRPC incorporates modern audiovisual and computer systems for a myriad
of conference requirements. Computerized workstations and electronic presentations give conference
hosts total flexibility for events. Classified briefings up to SECRET can be routinely supported with
higher classifications possible with added security measures. (Provide at least 2 weeks notice.)
2                                                                      AMCI90-2 1 DECEMBER 2002


3. GRPC Facilities. GRPC, building 1907, is located at 105 West Martin Street (south of AMC head-
quarters), Scott AFB, Illinois. You can visit the AMC GRPC website at
https://amc.af.mil/ds/grpc/index.htm. GRPC contains the following facilities to support conference
requirements:
    3.1. Main Conference Room. Located in the south wing of the facility and accommodates up to 153
    conferees. This room is equipped with disk operating system (Windows 2000) computer presenta-
    tions, electronic overhead, S-VHS, and DVD projected through single or dual rear screen projection.
    This room will only be used for groups with 50 or more. (Groups with 50 or less are acceptable w/o
    GRPC staff support).
    3.2. Executive Conference Room. Designed for senior-level meetings. The head table accommodates
    up to 13 people with an additional 36 seats around the room’s perimeter. In addition, this room can
    receive presentation feeds from the audiovisual hub or can operate in a stand-alone configuration via
    two liquid plasma flat screens. This room is equipped with a wall-mounted communications center
    containing a dry-erase surface, tack board, and pull-down projection screen (to support overheads).
    3.3. Meeting Rooms 1 through 3. GRPC has one large meeting room that can be divided into thirds.
    Located on the northwest side of the GRPC, each meeting room has an approximate seating capacity
    of 15 conferees in varying seating arrangements. These rooms are equipped with a wall-mounted
    communications center containing a dry-erase surface, tack board, and pull-down projection screen
    (to support overheads). Dry-erase marking pens and erasers are supplied by the GRPC. Electronic pre-
    sentations are available in either a stand-alone or user-assisted format displayed on liquid plasma flat
    screens.
    3.4. Seminar Rooms 1 and 2. The seminar rooms can be used as either one large room, accommodat-
    ing up to 45 conference attendees or two smaller rooms for 20 conferees each when divided in half.
    These rooms are also equipped with wall-mounted communications centers containing a dry-erase
    surface, tack board, and pull-down projection screen (to support overheads). Dry-erase marking pens
    and erasers are supplied by the GRPC. Electronic presentations are available in either stand-alone or
    user-assisted formats displayed liquid plasma flat screens.
    3.5. Other Facilities and Equipment Available. During conferences held at the GRPC, conferees and
    conference support personnel may use the kitchen facility and administrative equipment (fourteen
    telephones, fax machine, copier, three PCs, and a printer- found in the customer support area).
       3.5.1. Kitchen Facility. Available and designed to support a limited customer-catered set-up. A
       kitchen checklist will be provided during the pre-conference walk-through to assist the conference
       points of contact (POC). Food and beverages are authorized during breaks and must be consumed
       only in the lobby, or designated break areas. NOTE: The kitchen is equipped with a dishwasher,
       disposal, refrigerator-freezer, washer/dryer unit, and ice machine. Service trays, bowls, flatware,
       carafes, and other assorted dishes are also available in the kitchen. POCs are responsible for clean-
       ing and storing all kitchen items. Any loss, breakage, or damage is reimbursable within 10 days to
       the GRPC via AF Form 616, Fund Cite Authorization.
       3.5.2. Telephones. Carrels are located behind the main lobby wall and are equipped with 14 class
       “A” and modem lines. These telephones are for outgoing calls only. Incoming calls are received at
       the lobby reception desk and messages are posted on lobby monitors. A non-secure fax machine
       and a STU-III telephone are also available. For STU-III calls, contact the GRPC staff. (The POC
       is responsible for ensuring users of STU-III equipment have proper security clearance for the level
AMCI90-2 1 DECEMBER 2002                                                                                  3


       of the keying device.) The commercial phone number to leave a message for conference attendees
       is (618) 256-4549 or DSN: 576-4549. The commercial fax number at the GRPC is (618)
       256-5695, DSN: 576-5695 or an alternate line at 576-4622.
NOTE: For DSN access (class “A” only), dial 94 and the number (no second dial tone). For a local
on-base call, dial 256 or 229 and the 4-digit number. Local off-base numbers are accessible by dialing 99
and the number. Long distance numbers require a pin number supplied by the conference POC.
       3.5.3. Copy Machine. Available during conferences. Limit to 10 copies per original. If more cop-
       ies are required, make arrangements with the Defense Printing Service at 256-4686 located at
       building 700, South Drive, Scott AFB, IL.
       3.5.4. Executive Offices. Executive offices are available for conference senior officers (general
       officers or equivalents, i.e., wing commanders and major command staff directors, members of the
       Senior Executive Service) and distinguished visitors.

4. Scheduling. GRPC administrative staff maximizes the use of the facility by scheduling conference
rooms according to group size, audiovisual requirements, and security classification. Conference facilities
are tentatively reserved by telephone (Local base call: 256-4543, DSN: 576-4543 or Commercial:
618-256-4543) and later confirmed via written contract:
   4.1. Once conference dates are confirmed and not later than one month prior to the conference date,
   the project office Point of Contact (POC) must schedule a GRPC pre-conference brief and sign a con-
   tract. The OPR, alternate, support personnel, and briefers (if possible) should attend and receive a user
   responsibilities briefing.
   4.2. AMC and USTRANSCOM Command Sections and DV briefings have precedence in scheduling
   of the facility, so it may become necessary to cancel, on short notice, previously scheduled confer-
   ences. In the event a conference has been “bumped,” a courtesy phone call and confirmation e-mail
   will be sent to the conference POC. Potential optional facilities include the HQ AMC main conference
   room and directorates conference rooms.
   4.3. Conference POCs must keep the GRPC staff informed of all pertinent changes that involve sup-
   port for conferences. Current agendas (briefing and presentation requirements) are required 24 hours
   prior to conference date and will include a list of conference attendees. Pass cancellations to the
   GRPC as soon as possible to allow other prospective users to schedule the conference facilities.

5. Hours of Operation. The GRPC hours are 0730-1630, Monday through Friday; closed weekends and
federal holidays.

6. Transportation. No dedicated transportation exists for the GRPC. Consequently, all ground transpor-
tation must be coordinated in advance with the base transportation office at 256-2100 located in building
548 at 801 Hangar Road, Scott AFB, Illinois.

7. Lodging Arrangements. The conference POC or OPR is responsible for all lodging arrangements for
conference attendees. Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) should be for the 375th lodging to house
GRPC conferees, whenever possible, in the Huyser House. For information on the availability of lodging,
contact the Guest Reception Center at the Scott Inn, 24 hours a day at 256-1844 located in building 1510
at 1510 Beech, Scott AFB, Illinois.
4                                                                       AMCI90-2 1 DECEMBER 2002


8. Command Section Participation. To request senior staff officer participation in courtesy office calls
or conference opening/closing remarks from either USTRANSCOM or AMC, contact the appropriate
command section scheduling office at least 30 days prior to conference date.

9. User Responsibilities.
    9.1. Advise attendees of conference center operating policies. Smoking is not permitted in the build-
    ing, the only designated smoking area is located outside the east entrance. Policies are outlined in a
    user package provided by the GRPC staff during a POC pre-conference brief.
    9.2. Ensure all attendees have the appropriate security clearances and the need-to-know. Assume
    responsibility for room security and contents during actual use. Special provisions should be followed
    when classified information is being discussed in conference rooms.
       9.2.1. The POC is responsible for providing door guards to secure the area.
       9.2.2. The POC is responsible for safeguarding all classified material during the lunch hour or
       when conferees are touring other base facilities. Conference rooms will be locked and a guard
       posted inside the room. There are no storage facilities located at the GRPC for Classified or any
       conference materials unattended.
       9.2.3. All materials, including handouts, briefcases, briefing agendas and notebooks must be
       removed from the rooms at the end of each conference day.
    9.3. Provide properly trained personnel to assist presentations’ staff with facilitating briefings; to
    arrange furniture if necessary; to coordinate and arrange protocol seating (as required); to answer
    phones and post messages if the group has over 100 attendees; and to keep the kitchen and break areas
    clean. (The facility must be returned to its original configuration on completion of conference.) The
    POC or alternate must be on-hand prior to the arrival of conferees, remain within the GRPC during
    actual use, and be available to answer questions and lend assistance to their conferees. POC must
    remain until all conferees have departed the GRPC.
    9.4. Ensure that audiovisual, computer, and communication equipment is not removed from the facil-
    ity. A GRPC staff member will approve all equipment relocation.
    9.5. Ensure that all briefing hard-materials are compatible with installed projection equipment and
    that briefing materials with cue sheets are delivered to GRPC presentation technicians on DVD, VHS,
    CD, 3.5” floppy disk or 100/250mb zip disk no later than 24 hours prior to the day before their sched-
    uled briefing. All software or briefing diskettes brought into the facility will be scanned for possible
    viruses.
    9.6. The POC is responsible for providing and serving food and beverages for the conference. GRPC
    can provide beverage service to OPRs to use for conferences (i.e. coffee, juice, tea, water, soft drinks)
    for a nominal daily fee of .50 per person/per day. Please pay the GRPC staff by 1200 on the last day of
    the conference. POC will provide (when beverage service is used) a kitchen crew, and be on hand for
    a mandatory kitchen safety briefing prior to assuming responsibility of the kitchen duties. Addition-
    ally, they are responsible for the cleanliness of the kitchen and break areas throughout each day, POC
    is responsible to set up and take down all beverage/snack displays, if used. Duties and responsibilities
AMCI90-2 1 DECEMBER 2002                                                                          5


  are posted in the kitchen. Eating and drinking is permitted only in the lobby and designated areas
  (with the exception of water in conference rooms).



                                                 SEGUNDO PEREIRA, COL, USAF
                                                 Director of Staff
