BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR MOBILITY COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                 24-101 VOLUME 9

                                                                              20 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                    Transportation

                                                      AIR TERMINAL OPERATIONS CENTER



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

 OPR: AMCI24-101V9                                        Certified by A4T (Col William Z. Zeck)
 Supersedes: AMCI24-101V9, 24 November 2009                                            Pages: 87


This instruction implements AFPD 24-2, Preparation and Movement of Air Force Materiel. It
establishes policy and procedures for the Air Terminal Operations Center (ATOC). This
instruction applies to the Air National Guard (ANG) when in Title 10 status and assigned to Air
Mobility Command (AMC). It also applies to the US Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and their
units. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using
the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command to a4tcp@us.af.mil. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for
a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include: addition of AMC Form 77, Aircraft Ground Handling Record instructions,
removal of load planning section to AMCI 24-101, Volume 11, Cargo and Mail Policy,
consolidated Attachment 2, Information Systems with terms in Attachment 1, relocated Port to
Port Requirements from paragraph 9 to Attachment 2, added Attachment 7, AMC Form 56,
Re-handled Workload instructions, added responsibility for the Station On Hand Channel Report,
  2                                                    AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


RCS: AMC (AR) 7115 (7115 report) to cape forecasting, added verbiage to Mission Load Report
(MLR) and bumped cargo procedures, added guidance for handling non-TWCF missions, added
guidance for supporting host installation mobility operations, included all ATOC messages from
the A4T website, and provided new seat release procedures. This version eliminates references to
outdated publications and information systems. Further revisions are made for clarity and
currency.

Section A— ATOC Overview                                                                         3
       1. Air Terminal Operations Center (ATOC).                                                 3
       2. 618th Air Space Operations Center (AOC) /Aerial Port Control Center (APCC).            3
       3. Duty Officer (DO).                                                                     4
       4. Facilities Requirements.                                                               4
Section B—Air Terminal Operations Center Work Centers                                            5
       5. Flight/Section Chief.                                                                  5
       6. Senior Controller.                                                                     6
       7. Information Control.                                                                   8
       8. Ramp Control.                                                                         13
       9. Capability Forecasting.                                                               15
Section C— Miscellaneous Information                                                            16

       10. USTRANSCOM Defense Couriers.                                                         16

       11. Additional Crew Member (ACM) Travel (AMCI 11-208, AMC Tanker/Airlift                 18
       Operations).
       12. Space Blocks.                                                                        19

       13. Movement of Animals.                                                                 21

       14. Handling of Traffic on Aborted/Diverted Flights.                                     22

       15. Baggage Pallet Utilization on AMC Aircraft.                                          23

       16. Aerial Port Engine Running On and Offload (ERO) Procedures.                          23

       17. AMC Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF), Non-TWCF, Category B, and            25
       Air Reserve Component (ARC) Aircraft.
       18. Utilization of SAAM Aircraft.                                                        28
                                                                                                28
       19. Enroute Aerial Port Services Support for Host Installation Mobility Operations and
       Transiting Mobility Forces
                                                                                                29
       20. Billing non-DOD Aircraft for Aerial Port Aircraft Services.
Section D— Border Clearance                                                                     30
       21. Border Clearance - General.                                                          30
Section E— Intransit Visibility                                                                 35
       22. Intransit Visibility (ITV).                                                          35
Attachment 1 - GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                37
Attachment 2 - PORT TO PORT REQUIREMENTS                                                        48
Attachment 3 - ATOC MISSION FOLDERS AND MISSION LOAD REPORT (MLR)                               55
Attachment 4 - PASSENGER DEVIATION WAIVER PROCEDURES                                            72
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                    3



Attachment 5 - DIPLOMATIC CLEARANCE PROCEDURES                                                  76
Attachment 6 - SPECIAL CARGO                                                                    80
Attachment 7 - AMC FORM 56 INSTRUCTIONS                                                         86

Section A— ATOC Overview

1. Air Terminal Operations Center (ATOC). This volume provides guidance and procedures
to be used by the ATOC in performance of daily responsibilities. ATOC is placed an echelon
above all other air terminal work centers to effectively exercise command and control. ATOC is
the focal point for aerial port mission execution. It is the central point through which all
information relating to airlift traffic flow and aerial port operations is received, processed, and
dispatched to each functional area as well as to the chain of command. Personnel assigned to
ATOC should be at least an E-4 with experience in multiple work centers, as well as extensive
knowledge of all directives, policies, and procedures pertaining to passenger and cargo/mail
handling. ATOC controls all space allocated on AMC airlift missions, is responsible for obtaining
maximum utilization on each aircraft, and coordinates movement of special category cargo and
passengers in accordance with AMCI 24-101, Vol. 11, Cargo and Mail Policy and Vol. 14,
Military Airlift-Passenger Service. ATOC has the authority to prioritize aerial port workload and
provide oversight to all aerial port work centers. ATOC is the focal point of the Aerial Port
Expediter (APEX) loading operations and will coordinate with local command and control, ramp
services, dispatch and maintenance controllers to establish aircraft on/offload times and
configurations IAW AMCI 24-101, Vol. 7, APEX Aircraft Loading Program. ATOC's role is to
provide proactive and safe oversight and correct information to manage available resources in
order for the aerial port to effectively receive, document, and handle passengers, cargo, and mail.
The ATOC is required to perform four functions: senior controller, information control, ramp
control, and capability forecasting; all report directly to the ATOC flight/section chief. Data
Records is also part of ATOC, however, their responsibilities are outlined in AMCI 24-101, Vol. 6,
Transportation Documentation, Data Records, and Reports. Duty Officers (DOs) are normally
located within ATOC and report directly to the Squadron Commander or designated
representative. Duties and responsibilities for ATOC’s collocated within base or wing command
posts, will be outlined in local operations instructions.

2. 618th Air Space Operations Center (AOC) /Aerial Port Control Center (APCC). 618
AOC/APCC serves as the 618 AOC Commander's direct representative, is the channel mission
manager, and single point of contact for over 70 aerial ports worldwide. 618 AOC/APCC is the
command authority for issuing passenger prohibitive cargo deviations and initiates management
actions to ensure expeditious movement of national interest items, human remains (HR),
life-or-death, and critical aircraft spares directly supporting the Department of Defense (DOD)
airlift system. 618 AOC/APCC controllers have knowledge in ATOC, load planning, passenger
movement, hazardous cargo, and are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to provide guidance
to aerial port DO’s/ATOC senior controllers. 618 AOC/APCC can be contacted at DSN
312-779-0350/0355. In the event an aerial port encounters a problem that would hinder mission
execution, 618 AOC/APCC controllers have the expertise necessary to provide operational
  4                                                      AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


guidance and technical knowledge to coordinate unique/moment's notice requirements well
outside the realm of a normal ATOC.

3. Duty Officer (DO). The Squadron Commander or designated representative outlines the
responsibilities of the DO and number required on shift to perform daily tasks based on installation
and aircraft mission requirements. The DO is responsible for aerial port operations and ensuring
all work centers are accomplishing mission related tasks in a safe and timely manner. Other
responsibilities usually include researching mishaps, aircraft delays, resolving issues with outside
agencies/customers, monitoring Material Handling Equipment (MHE), and redirecting manning
from one work center to another to avoid mission saturation. DO’s must have continuous access to
a radio and a vehicle for observation of flightline activities. During the shift, the DO’s will visit
each work center. When a duty officer is not available, the Squadron CC or designated
representative will delegate DO responsibilities (i.e. senior controller).

4. Facilities Requirements. The facilities and services detailed below are the minimum
requirements for ATOC to meet its responsibilities. Where required facilities are not available and
cannot be provided at base level, the responsible unit commander will submit a request through
host base engineering channels to the major command (MAJCOM) responsible for support
facilities and HQ AMC/A4TR. Thus, as a minimum, these requirements are essential to effectively
manage the ATOC:

      4.1. Intra-base Telephone System. Each ATOC will have a survivable voice (telephone)
      system to provide dedicated service. Because the requirement for direct circuits varies from
      base to base, local management must determine what direct circuits are needed. A direct link
      with the following activities should always be considered: command and control (C2) agency,
      base operations, passenger operations, cargo operations, ramp operations, special handling,
      squadron or port operations office, records reports and analysis, law enforcement desk, fire
      department, explosive ordnance disposal (EOD), aerial port or support squadron commander,
      representatives from US Immigration/Customs Enforcement, Department of Agriculture, and
      other locally designated agencies.

      4.2. At least one Class A capable telephone will be located on information control consoles.

      4.3. Land Mobile Radio (LMR) Policy and Requirements. Each ATOC requires a LMR
      system to effectively accomplish its assigned mission.

           4.3.1. Each LMR system will consist of a fixed low power (not to exceed 35 watts)
           transceiver and portable radio(s). This system will be under control of the ATOC.

           4.3.2. Radio system antennas will be installed at sites selected to provide optimum
           range.

           4.3.3. AFI 33-106, Managing High Frequency Radios, Personal Wireless
           Communications Systems, and the Military Affiliate Radio System outline procedures
           for management of LMR equipment.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                       5




    4.4. Standardization. The optimum working area for ATOC is based upon maximum
    number of personnel required to perform section functions during peak workload periods.
    Square footage allowed for each person required to perform duties will be in accordance to
    AFI 32-1024, Standard Facility Requirements.

           4.4.1. When possible, install wall, floor, and ceiling silencing materials in the ATOC
           to reduce noise level to a minimum.

    4.5. ATOC personnel will have access to the Global Air Transportation Execution System
    (GATES) and the Global Decision Support System (GDSS). ATOC facilities will also have
    the following items; a non-secure fax, and reproduction equipment (scanner/copier).

    4.6. Status Boards. GATES should be used in lieu of status boards. In the event status
    boards are required (ex. GATES outage/manual procedures) information on display
    boards/television monitors will enable effective command and control of all port functions.

Section B—Air Terminal Operations Center Work Centers

5. Flight/Section Chief. The flight/section chief is directly responsible to the flight commander
or operations officer for safe daily aerial port mission execution. His/her responsibilities are to
supervise and control all ATOC resources and to ensure that only highly qualified and motivated
personnel are selected to perform ATOC duties. The flight/section chief will ensure maximum
utilization of airlift IAW Precision Loading policy located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/
USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4tc/cargo/precision/hello.html. In the event an ATOC
function is collocated as specified in paragraph 1 or are tasked to duties not covered in this volume,
the ATOC flight/section chief will outline these specific duties/responsibilities by local operating
instructions to assure full compliance with established directives and local procedures. The ATOC
flight/section chief will be comprised of an officer and a Senior Non-Commissioned Officer
(SNCO), however local management may adjust requirement based on installation and aircraft
mission requirements.

    5.1. The flight/section chief is responsible for ensuring an adequate number of personnel are
    trained as Contracting Officer Representative (COR) to monitor and oversee AMC
    commercial contract air carrier's performance IAW the International Airlift Contract’s
    Performance Work Statement (PWS) and Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP). The
    Acquisition administrator is USTRANSCOM/TCAQ which can be reached at E-mail:
    USTCAQ-Operations@ustranscom.mil.

    5.2. The flight/section chief is directly responsible for making sure mobility kits are
    assembled and maintained in all ATOCs with a mobility tasking for deployment as directed
    by the 618 AOC. These kits may also be used during power outages or natural disasters.
    Strategic aerial ports will maintain a minimum of one mobility kit, but management may
    obtain additional kits. These kits will contain all publications, forms, miscellaneous supplies,
  6                                                      AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


      and equipment as identified in AMCI 24-101, Vol. 18, Military Airlift--AMC Mobilized
      Aerial Port Forces and Aerial Delivery Flights, for Air Reserve Components (ARC), mobile,
      and strategic units. Hard copy prints and publication may be maintained on appropriate
      electronic storage media or accessed from the Air Force portal if so authorized by the aerial
      port flight/section chief.

      5.3. Manual Procedures. The flight/section chief must ensure that ATOC personnel are
      capable of transitioning to a manual operation if automated systems are not available.
      Training requirements for manual procedures are detailed in AMCI 24-101, Volume 22,
      Training Requirements for Aerial Port Operations. The flight/section chief must ensure cape
      forecasting is prepared to provide manual backlog data (7115 report) to 618 AOC/XOG as
      required and IAW AMCI 24-101, Vol. 6, Transportation Documentation, Data Records, and
      Reports. The flight/section chief must ensure that ATOC has an adequate amount of manual
      mission folders, (AMC Form 77 and AMC Form 68, Aerial Port Movement Log), for manual
      procedures and inclusion in mobility kits. GATES generated AMC Form 77s are available at
      https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4tc/cargo/hello.ht
      ml. AMC Form 77’s and AMC Form 68’s are also available on the e-Publishing website at
      http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

      5.4. AMC Form 56. The ATOC flight/section chief maintains overall responsibility for
      review and submission of the AMC Form 56 to Data Records. Procedures for AMC Form 56
      are located in Attachment 7 of this instruction.

6. Senior Controller. The ATOC flight/section chief will designate qualified individuals as
senior controllers. Personnel assigned as senior controllers will monitor/oversee aerial port
flightline operations. Senior controllers must have continuous access to a radio and flight line
vehicle for observation of activities. When a DO is not assigned or available, the squadron CC may
delegate those responsibilities to senior controllers. As a minimum, senior controllers are
responsible for ensuring the tasks listed below are accomplished, however, information
control/ramp control may be the individuals actually accomplishing the task.

      6.1. Ensure fleet, cargo, passenger service, and ATOC ramp coordinator, as appropriate,
      meet all arriving and departing aircraft requiring service IAW locally established sequence of
      events (SOE).

      6.2. During pre-aircraft arrival planning, review information contained in the inbound
      Mission Load Report (MLR) to ensure the proper execution of services required from the
      aerial port. Ensure information control aggressively seeks inbound information when inbound
      aircraft information is not available.

      6.3. Ensure load plans are complete at least 6 hours prior to mission departure.

      6.4. Monitor planning, selection, and positioning of cargo loads prior to loadmaster/boom
      operator arrival. This is particularly important at en route stations where short ground times
      demand quick service.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                              7




   6.5. Ensure maximum number of seats has been released to passenger services NLT 5 hours
   prior to mission departure or as soon as requirements are known.

   6.6. Closely monitor and provide coordination for missions with unique requirements, i.e.
   aero-medical evacuations (AEs), Distinguished Visitors (DVs), “quick turn” missions, and
   ensure adequate personnel are available to provide support as needed.

   6.7. Closely monitor current operations to include; weather forecast, aircraft maintenance
   status, current ramp conditions, aircraft parking plans, etc…

   6.8. Verify loadmaster/boom operator alert times with the C2 agency and ensure aircrews
   are briefed concerning explosives, hazardous, or other special handling cargo.

   6.9. Coordinate courier movements with defense courier station personnel and passenger
   service work center.

   6.10. Coordinate commercial contract missions with COR, carrier's representatives, cargo
   operations and passenger service.

   6.11. Ensure transportation delays are coordinated with affected air terminal work centers
   and provide local C2 agency with detailed information on the delay. See paragraph 7.15 for
   more information.

   6.12. Monitor input of source data and on-time transmission of MLR’s, delay reports, and
   other related traffic reports. Check information in the MLR for accuracy and completeness.
   Additional information on the MLR is located in Attachment 3.

   6.13. Check inbound/outbound mission folders (AMC Form 77 and/or AMC Form 68,
   Aerial Port Movement Log) and its documentation for completeness and accuracy. Additional
   information regarding the AMC Form 77 and the AMC Form 68 are located in Attachment 3.

   6.14. Closely monitor aircraft maintenance status to ensure passenger holding time at
   aircraft is consistent with mission requirements and not excessive.

   6.15. Review updated manpower and MHE/vehicle/equipment availability at each shift
   change.

   6.16. Personally monitor aerial port handling of AMC Mission Capability Assets (MICAP),
   HR’s and Nuclear Weapons Readiness Material (NWRM) shipments. Review Attachment 6
   for additional information.
  8                                                      AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


      6.17. Review mission data against Precision Loading policy located at
      https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4tc/cargo/precisi
      on/hello.html to ensure maximum utilization of airlift.

7. Information Control. Information control gathers, processes, and disseminates all
information pertaining to air terminal operations. They ensure each terminal work center is given
the necessary information to effectively accomplish the assigned mission by working closely with
the C2 agency, base operations, maintenance control, other base agencies, and up-line/down-line
station ATOCs. Information control closely monitors all work center SOEs to ensure established
timelines are being met to prevent aircraft delays. Information control will be separated into two
functions, inbound control and outbound control; however, local management may adjust
requirement based on installation and aircraft mission requirements. NOTE: ATOC will not
solely rely on automated systems, i.e. GATES, GDSS or email to retrieve/disseminate load
information. When required, information controllers must be aggressive in
obtaining/disseminating load information when unavailable, i.e. call the work centers and
up-line/down-line stations to pass/retrieve load information.

      7.1.     Inbound Documentation.            Information control ensures documentation is
      disseminated to respective terminal work centers and original copies are forwarded to the
      records and reports section for filing. Passenger service will collect and send terminating and
      through load passenger/baggage manifests to ATOC IAW AMCI 24-101, Vol. 14, Military
      Airlift-Passenger Service. If documentation is incomplete or missing, information control will
      retrieve copies as needed from GATES. If missing documentation is from a non-GATES
      station, information control will contact stations, i.e. originating/enroute, in an attempt to
      locate and recover missing documentation. Enter an explanation in the remarks sections of
      AMC Form 77/AMC Form 68 if document recovery efforts are unsuccessful.

      7.2. Outbound Documentation. Information control will establish close coordination
      with load planning in order to ensure receipt of outbound documentation no later than six
      hours prior to mission departure. Information control will verify the aircraft document packet
      (except for passenger boarding manifests) and account for completeness of its contents prior
      to delivery to the aircraft. Information control will ensure the ramp coordinator delivers
      mission document packets to outbound aircraft when the documentation is not available at the
      time of the aircrew briefing.

      7.3. AMC Form 77/AMC Form 68. Information control will provide accurate SOE and
      load information on the AMC Form 77/AMC Form 68. Place all source/required
      documentation in the pertinent mission folder. Procedures for AMC Form 77/AMC Form 68
      are located in Attachment 3 of this instruction.

      7.4. Mission Load Report (MLR) Information. Provide current arrival/departure data
      via inbound/outbound GATES MLR and telephonic notification for flights three hours or less.
      Ensure data is sufficiently clear and complete to allow for effective ground handling
      preparation efforts. Send MLR NLT 30 minutes after actual aircraft departure. For
      additional MLR information refer to Attachment 3 of this instruction.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                     9



   7.5. Mission Coordination with Work Centers. Information control will verbally
   (telephone, LMR, etc.) notify affected air terminal work centers when there are sudden
   changes in aircraft maintenance status, changes in aircraft parking spots, changes in aircraft
   departure/arrival times, tail swaps, aircraft configuration changes, diverted, cancelled, and
   aborted missions, etc. to ensure current information is passed to all affected air terminal work
   centers. When MLR’s are not available for inbound aircraft, information control will pass
   inbound information to affected work centers by telephone. Information control will
   announce inbound arrivals and departures of AMC aircraft via the radio or by telephone.

   7.6. Seat Release. Calculate the maximum number of seats available based on review of
   load plans, GDSS mission remarks, and accounting for additional crew members (ACM)/duty
   passengers. Ensure all available seats are released to passenger service NLT 5 hours prior to
   mission departure or as soon as requirements are known. NOTE: It is ATOC’s
   responsibility to inform the aircrew, at time of crew show, of the total number of seats
   released. If crew/mission cannot accommodate the proposed release, ATOC must annotate
   reason why in mission remarks.

   7.7. Aircrew Notification. Information control will verify loadmaster/boom operator
   show times with the local C2 agency and provide tentative availability times to terminal work
   centers. When unique situations alter or change of requirements arise, coordinate with local
   C2 agency to make changes or cancellations of established SOE times. Document changes or
   cancellations on AMC Form 77 or AMC Form 68.

   7.8. Aircraft Load Briefing. Information control, ramp coordinator, or designated
   representative will brief the aircraft commander or designated representative (e.g.,
   loadmaster/boom operator) concerning seat release, NWRM/special cargo shipments,
   prisoners/guards, couriers, number of pallets, load characteristics (e.g., overhang, rolling
   stock, etc.), total tonnage, etc. Notify the local C2 agency of applicable aircraft load briefing
   information. The loadmaster/boom operator may receive the briefing by telephone at the
   one-stop facility, in person at ATOC, or at the aircraft. Once information concerning number
   of passengers, deportees, special category passengers, and handicapped passengers is
   available, ensure the ramp coordinator briefs aircraft commander or designated
   representative. NOTE: Information control may use AMC Form 30, APEX Mission Load
   Brief Cover Sheet, to complete briefings for aircraft that are loaded using APEX criteria.

   7.9. Hazardous Cargo Briefing. Information control, ramp coordinator or designated
   representative will brief the aircraft commander or designated representative (e.g.,
   loadmaster/boom operator) concerning hazardous cargo according to AFMAN 24-204_IP,
   Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military Air Shipments. The aircraft commander or
   designated representative will print their name and rank directly below their signature on the
   brief sheet. When the GATES Mission Brief Sheet or ICODES loadplan is utilized,
   loadplanners will print their name and rank directly below their signature on the air terminal
   representative signature block.
10                                                 AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


       7.9.1. For manual procedures, personnel will ensure the following air terminal
       inspection certification statement is annotated on the DD Form 1385, Cargo Manifest,
       with printed name and signature of air terminal representative, "ALL HAZARDOUS
       MATERIALS COVERED BY THIS MANIFEST HAVE BEEN INSPECTED AND
       FOUND TO BE PACKAGED IN THE PROPER OUTSIDE CONTAINER, FREE OF
       VISIBLE DAMAGE AND LEAKS, AND IS PROPERLY CERTIFIED.”
       Loadplanners will print their name/rank and place their signature directly below the
       statement. Additionally, ensure the following aircrew briefing statement is annotated
       on the DD Form 1385, "I HAVE BEEN BRIEFED ACCORDING TO AFMAN
       24-204 IP, PARAGRAPH 1.2.9., ON HAZARDOUS CARGO COVERED BY THIS
       MANIFEST.” Once ATOC has briefed the aircraft commander or designated
       representative, have the aircraft commander or designated representative print their
       name/rank and sign their name directly below the statement. Apply these statements by
       pen and ink, programmed wording, rubber stamps, or typewriter.

 7.10. C2 Agency or Base Operations Hazardous Cargo Load Notification. ATOC will
 provide local C2 agency or base operations, as applicable, with hazardous material
 information for compliance with AFJI 11-204, Operational Procedures for Aircraft Carrying
 Hazardous Materials. Refer to AFMAN 24-204_IP, Preparing Hazardous Materials for
 Military Air Shipments, Attachment 21, which outlines the information the briefing agency is
 required to provide to aircraft commander or designated representative.

 7.11. C2 Agency Coordination. Information control will provide all necessary
 information to the local C2 agency to ensure completion of ground handling services prior to
 scheduled departure time. Coordinate payload requirements and ensure the air manifests have
 been completed NLT 6 hours prior to departure. C2 agencies need load information in gross
 weights 6 hours prior in advance of departure time so computerized flight plans, fuel loads,
 and airspace clearance issues can be worked. C2 agencies can use this information to
 determine preferred/special parking requirements in advance of aircraft arrival.

 7.12. 618 AOC/Flight Manager (FM) Coordination. Information Control will ensure
 final cargo load information is placed in GATES six hours prior to mission departure. For
 manual procedures, notify the 618 AOC/XOCM at DSN# 312-779-0301, Comm#
 618-229-0301, 6 hours prior to mission departure. The FM needs the cargo load information
 (passenger data when available) 6 hours prior to departure to allow time to calculate fuel
 loads, file flight plans with appropriate authorities, and obtain airspace clearances for
 movement of hazardous and explosive cargo. Changes to the load plan within the 6 hour
 window of over 1,000 pounds must be coordinated thru 618 AOC/XOCM.

 7.13. Border Clearance Notification. When not already performed by the local C2
 agency or base operations, information control will provide initial and updated airlift
 information to each border clearance agency as required.

 7.14. GATES Intransit Visibility (ITV). Ensure all missions in GATES are departed NLT
 30 minutes after actual departure time. GATES should automatically enter departure time
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 11



   based on a departure message from Global Decision Support System (GDSS). If GATES is
   not automatically updated, the information controller will update GATES with the departure
   time.

          7.14.1. Query the Integrated Data Environment (IDE)/Global Transportation
          Network (GTN) Convergence (IGC) to ensure ITV timeliness criteria IAW Defense
          Transportation Regulation (DTR) 4500.9-R (Part I, Passenger Movement, Part II,
          Cargo Movement, and Part III, Mobility). Timeliness is measured from actual aircraft
          departure time to availability of data in IGC. Movement data must be available in IGC
          as follows: Two hours for all intra-theater and CONUS air movements, one hour for
          all sustainment airlift and unit/non-unit strategic air movements.

          7.14.2. If movement data is not drillable in IGC IAW prescribed timeliness criteria,
          contact the AMC C2 Call Center at Scott AFB, IL, 618-256-4949, DSN 312-576-4949
          or the IGC Help Desk at (618) 220-6836, DSN 312-770-6836.

          7.14.3. Information Controllers will have IGC and GDSS accounts to verify and
          support ITV data.

          7.14.4. Refer to paragraph 22 of this volume for more information regarding ITV.

   7.15. Transportation Delay Reporting. Coordinate with the local or appointed C2
   agency on all Aerial Port delays to ensure the most appropriate code per AMCI 10-202, Vol.
   6, Mission Management and Reliability Reporting System (MMRRS) is assigned.

          7.15.1. Once a delay has occurred, review the aerial port sequence of events (SOE)
          and coordinate with outside agencies (i.e. POL, Maintenance, etc.) to identify the
          primary reasons for departure delay. Ensure a detailed narrative of the circumstances
          leading to the delay is placed in the remarks section of the AMC Form 77 or AMC
          Form 68.

          7.15.2. Coordinate with the local or appointed C2 agency on all aerial port delays to
          ensure the most appropriate 300 series delay which best describes the reason for delay,
          from AMCI 10-202, Vol. 6, MRRS, is assigned. If the reason for delay cannot be
          readily identified, work with the C2 agency to assign a delay code of x-555 until the
          proper delay code can be determined.

          7.15.3. If the mission was delayed on a Special Assignment Airlift Mission (SAAM),
          Joint Airborne Air Transportability Training (JA/ATT), Exercise, Contingency,
          Operational Support Airlift (OSA) and/or Executive Airlift mission leg due to the
          user; ensure C2 utilizes either 171 or 173 delay code.

          7.15.4. If the mission was delayed by higher headquarters to support MICAP, HR’s,
          wait for known delayed space block passengers, etc., ensure C2 utilizes Execution 500
          series delay codes.
12                                                   AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013



         7.15.5. Once mission has departed your station and C2 has completed all actions,
         review mission in GDSS to ensure the proper delay code/remarks were utilized,
         coordinate with C2 if corrections are required. NOTE: Overall responsibility for
         delay determination is aerial port commander or designated representative.

 7.16. Assigning Mission Identifiers for non-AMC Missions. Information control will
 construct a mission identifier when cargo/mail or passengers are loaded at their station aboard
 any aircraft that is not identified in GATES. If a mission number is unavailable, use MAF
 Mission ID Encode/Decode Table found at URL: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/
 AFP40/d/s6925EC1341A00FB5E044080020E329A9/Files/editorial/Encode-Decode.pdf?
 channelPageId=s6925EC1341A00FB5E044080020E329A9&programId=tA4057E1F2C6
 A9B77012CBD26518A1C04

 7.17. Maintaining AMC Form 56. When aircraft are re-handled, information control
 completes an AMC Form 56, as appropriate, to reflect this additional workload. For
 instructions on when to complete/completing the AMC Form 56, see Attachment 7.

 7.18. Bumped Pallet and Shipment Responsibilities. A bumped pallet or shipment is any
 pallet or shipment of cargo/mail that is manifested, but removed from the manifest or aircraft.
 Manifested cargo/mail shipments will not be bumped without the ATOC's approval. Section
 responsibilities for bumped cargo/mail are as follows:

        7.18.1. Information Control function will:

                 7.18.1.1. Initiate a "cargo/mail" bump sheet and contact all affected work
                 centers. (The GATES Bump Sheet or locally produced cargo/mail bump sheet
                 will be used). As a minimum, the worksheet will contain the following.

                           7.18.1.1.1. Mission/aircraft number, manifest number, pallet ID
                           and/or Transportation Control Number (TCN) date and time
                           cargo/mail was bumped.

                           7.18.1.1.2. Reason for bump, i.e. warped pallet, allowable cabin
                           load (ACL) reduction, contact points inadequate, etc.

                           7.18.1.1.3. Present location of cargo/mail.

                           7.18.1.1.4. Printed name/signature of person initiating bump sheet
                           and name of person (signature not required) notified of bumped
                           cargo information from the affected work centers.

                 7.18.1.2. Notify load planning to supplement load, if required and time
                 permits.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 13



                  7.18.1.3. Receive new final manifest from loadplanning or correct the final
                  manifest by circling the pallet/shipment (line item) and annotate the manifest
                  with the words "Pallet or Shipment bumped at (i.e. EDF)."

                  7.18.1.4. Recover all documentation pertaining to bumped pallet/shipment
                  (e.g., Shipper’s Declaration for Dangerous Goods, Transportation Control
                  Movement Documents (TCMD), DD Form 1252) and deliver to load planning.

                  7.18.1.5. Annotate the AMC Form 77/AMC Form 68, remarks section, that
                  pallet/shipment was bumped and reason. Ensure the completed cargo/mail
                  bump sheet is filed in the AMC Form 77/AMC Form 68.

       7.18.2.    Aircraft/Ramp Services will: Offload/deliver the pallet/shipment to
       appropriate work center.

       7.18.3. Cargo Operations/Special Handling will:

                  7.18.3.1. Correct any discrepancies. Cargo/mail shipments bumped at
                  enroute locations will be processed as intransit cargo. Originating locations
                  will verify with load planning that pallet/shipment has been removed from
                  system load chalk.

                  7.18.3.2. Relocate cargo/mail and inform information control of new location
                  for inclusion on the bump sheet.

       7.18.4. Load Planning will:

                  7.18.4.1.   Supplement load and update load plans, if required and time
                  permits.

                  7.18.4.2. Ensure documentation is recovered for bumped pallet or shipments.

                  7.18.4.3. Ensure the pallet or shipment is processed back into the movement
                  ready on-hand file for future load planning.

   7.19. For cargo that has special loading issues, information control and/or load planning will
   coordinate with down line stations to ensure the necessary vehicles, MHE, equipment, highline
   space, storage, and drivers are available to accept the cargo prior to movement. Information
   control will annotate unique equipment requirements in the MLR.

8. Ramp Control. The ramp coordinator is the eyes and ears of information control and will
monitor all aerial port ground handling operations to include maintaining constant
communication with information control.
  8.1. The inbound ramp coordinator will:
14                                                  AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


     8.1.1. Meet all inbound aircraft to collect cargo/passenger mission documentation
     (exceptions may be made with prior coordination for local missions requiring no aerial
     port services).

     8.1.2. Ensure sufficient copies of registered mail/signature service manifests remain on
     the aircraft for special handling personnel to collect/transfer accountability. (GATES
     down line stations can create their own if needed).

     8.1.3. Physically inventory and annotate intransit cargo aboard aircraft by pallet
     position, weight, destination, pallet ID, and other locally required load planning
     information. Information for rolling stock, pallets that have forward and/or aft overhang,
     and pallets loaded out of position will include start, stop and C/B fuselage station.
     Annotate C/B fuselage station for all pallet trains. Verify with loadmaster/boom operator
     that the aircraft locks, rails, rollers, winch, aircraft ventilation stations, operational
     lavatories, etc., are all operational. For passenger information, annotate number of
     thru-load passengers, physical seats, boom operators/loadmasters, and infant cots.
     Record this information on locally produced worksheets. Ensure one copy is filed in the
     AMC Form 77/AMC Form 68 and one copy is given to loadplanning. NOTE:
     Inbound load plans or blank AF Form 4080, Load Sequence Breakdown Worksheet, may
     be utilized as a worksheet for physical aircraft inventory.
     8.1.4. Validate aircraft configuration and obtain the operating weight/moment as well
     as applicable weight and balance data for computation of a firm ACL.

     8.1.5. When necessary, escort border clearance personnel to and from aircraft.

     8.1.6. Coordinate all ground handling activities with appropriate work centers.

8.2. The outbound ramp coordinator will:

     8.2.1. Ensure delivery of all final manifests to the aircraft prior to scheduled departure
     time.

     8.2.2. Deliver mission document packets to outbound aircraft when such documentation
     is not available at the time of crew briefings.

     8.2.3. Verify aircraft is configured for planned passenger/cargo upload.

     8.2.4. Coordinate all ground handling activities with appropriate work centers.

     8.2.5. Relay information concerning load changes through information control.

     8.2.6.    Monitor all aerial port aircraft loading/servicing operations and make
     recommendations to the duty officer/senior control to divert equipment and personnel in
     order to prevent mission delays as needed.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                    15




        8.2.7. When necessary, escort border clearance personnel to and from aircraft requiring
        such services.

9. Capability Forecasting. This function provides each terminal work center with daily or
monthly airlift capability forecasts. The forecasts consist of known airlift capability based upon
current operations bulletins, schedules, revisions, amendments or changes and will include all
available opportune airlift and requests/receipts for clearance of explosives and applicable FMS
shipments (see Attachment 2, Port-to-Port Clearance Requirements), and diplomatic cargo
clearances. Accuracy and timeliness are paramount to facilitate equipment scheduling and
workload planning. Close coordination with local activities is necessary to provide the most
current and complete information available. Hence, it is imperative that capability forecasting pass
all additions, deletions, and/or revisions to published forecasts to affected work centers. This
section performs the following duties:

    9.1. Airlift Capability Schedules. Forecasters extract the necessary data from appropriate
    C2 systems (i.e., Single Mobility System (SMS), GDSS, etc.) or published schedules and
    amendments to prepare the daily mission schedule. This should be completed in advance of
    operations and distributed to terminal work centers. Forecasters monitor schedules and update
    terminal work centers with new information immediately upon receipt.

    9.2. Monitoring Cargo Capability. Receive/monitor airlift space assignments and
    control the port management levels by channel. This gives aerial port leadership a tool to
    accurately portray the port’s status, identify periods of under/over generation, and when
    necessary, request increases or reduction in airlift capability. Additionally, forecasters will
    pull a daily GATES pallet listing report to monitor and maintain an accurate pallet count by
    destination, module type, and weight/cube. Coordinate with 618 AOC/XOG, load planning,
    and cargo operations management to achieve maximum pallet and aircraft utilization goals.
    Stations equipped with GATES should use the system's local management reports as
    described in the current system user's manual to the maximum extent possible.

    9.3. Station On Hand Channel Report, RCS: AMC (AR) 7115. Cape Forecasting must
    be prepared to provide manual backlog data (7115 report) to 618 AOC/XOG as required and
    IAW AMCI 24-101, Vol. 6, Transportation Documentation, Data Records, and Reports. This
    is a report required by 618 AOC/XOG and AMC/A4T that reflects the amount of movement
    ready channel cargo/mail on hand and cargo moved on channel missions in the last 24 hours,
    as well as other necessary data for efficient application of airlift and other overall
    management actions

    9.4. Control of Opportune Airlift. Monitor all known opportune airlift. The forecast will
    include in-transit or inbound mission capability which will depart that station on the operating
    day. NOTE: Stations shall strive to maximize utilization first on commercial, then organic
    missions, before opportune airlift, to the greatest extent possible.
  16                                                     AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


    9.5. Contingency, Exercise, JA/ATT, SAAM, and AMC Special Air Mission (SAM)
    Coordination. Coordinate mission requirements with users, air terminal work centers, and
    618 AOC/XOCG (DSN 312-779-0320). If SAAM/SAM missions are authorized to transport
    cargo, vehicles, equipment and personnel IAW AFMAN 24-204_IP, Preparing Hazardous
    Materials for Military Air Shipments, Chapter 3, Tactical, Contingency, or Emergency Airlift,
    the statement "AFMAN 24-204_IP, Chapter 3 applies" must be included on the mission
    execution directive (e.g., GDSS Mission Detail). If the GDSS mission remarks does not
    contain this statement, then hazardous material requirements for channel missions pertaining
    to fuel levels, compatibility, packaging, etc., will be:

            9.5.1. Compatible according to AFMAN 24-204_IP, Preparing Hazardous Materials
            for Military Air Shipments, Table A18.1 and Table A18.2.

            9.5.2. Vehicle and equipment fuel levels will not exceed limits authorized for
            non-tactical airlift.

            9.5.3. Hand-carried hazardous materials must be packaged as required by AFMAN
            24-204_IP.

       9.6. Diplomatic Clearance Procedures. For diplomatic clearance procedures, go to
       Attachment 5.

       9.7. Explosives Monitoring. Coordinate inbound or outbound clearance for channel and
       opportune explosives shipments and monitor the terminal's explosive movement
       requirements and capability. (The Host base Weapons Safety office provides authorized
       explosives storage locations and explosives limitations for the installation). Requests for
       explosives clearances will be IAW AMCI 11-208, Tanker/Airlift Operations and Attachment
       2, Port to Port Requirements. For space block procedures see paragraph 12 of this volume.

Section C— Miscellaneous Information

10. USTRANSCOM Defense Couriers. Shipments escorted by Defense Couriers can contain
highly classified national security material that requires courier escort. These shipments consist of
loose loaded, palletized, hand-carried items, or a combination of these configurations. Courier
escorts will either be dedicated (assigned to the dispatching courier station) or designated (from
aircrew or passenger manifest).

       10.1. Dedicated Couriers. Dedicated couriers are members of the US Armed Forces or
       civilian employees assigned to the USTRANSCOM/J3-C and can be identified by their
       Defense Courier credentials. Dedicated couriers at stations located on AMC installations will
       have flight line badges.

       10.2. Designated Couriers. A designated courier is an appropriately cleared active duty
       member of the US Armed Forces (in the grade E5 or above) or, when authorized, a US
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                   17



   Government civilian employee (in the grade GS-5 or above), who is selected by a dedicated
   courier to take custody of, safeguard, and escort a particular courier shipment. Specific
   information concerning designated couriers can be found in DODI 5200.33, Defense Courier
   Operations, enclosure 7.

   10.3. At destination stations, courier personnel will contact ATOC or C2 personnel to
   determine aircraft arrival and courier information (for example, ETA, parking spot,
   designated courier's names, passenger or aircrew member, size of shipment, etc.).

   10.4. When temporary secure storage of courier escorted material is required at any station
   other than destination station, the couriers will request host base assistance for necessary
   security arrangements. The squadron or port operations officer will coordinate courier
   material (assume TOP SECRET) secure storage requirements with the base commander.
   10.5. USTRANSCOM/J3-C Defense Courier Responsibilities.

         10.5.1. Courier station personnel will coordinate all channel space block movements
         with 618 AOC/XOG Cargo Bookies. Airlift must be requested NLT 48 hours prior to
         the required movement date. For weekend missions, requests must be submitted NLT
         1200 hrs. Friday (CST). For more information, see paragraph 12, Space Blocks.

         10.5.2. Ensure space blocked escorted material and/or couriers are coordinated and
         available to the aerial port IAW locally coordinated SOE.

         10.5.3. Ensure escorted material is properly packaged and documented IAW DTR
         4500.9-R, Part II, Cargo Movement.

         10.5.4. Coordinate designated courier requirements with ATOC within the time
         parameters established by local aerial port directives.

         10.5.5. For movements by dedicated couriers, ensure courier travel orders are
         delivered to the passenger terminal no later than 2 hours and 20 minutes prior to
         aircraft block time. When cargo is not hand-carried, dedicated couriers will board
         aircraft after observing upload of cargo.

         10.5.6. For movement by designated couriers, provide flightline escort for the
         couriers and escorted material to the aircraft and support the couriers until the aircraft
         departs.
   10.6. 618 AOC/XOG (Cargo Bookies) Responsibilities.

         10.6.1. Provide 24-hour assistance to process space block requests.
  18                                                      AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


            10.6.2. Confirm validity of request, and if approved, notify the appropriate aerial
            port capability forecaster, USTCJ3-C and requesting courier station of flight
            information.

            10.6.3. Update GDSS mission display remarks to reflect cargo and courier
            movement information.

       10.7. Aerial Port Responsibilities for defense courier shipments.

            10.7.1. Ensure appropriate aerial port sections are notified of courier space block
            requirements.

            10.7.2. Coordinate with courier station personnel on aircraft arrival, departure, and
            loading information (for example, ETA, ETD, parking spot, courier's names, size of
            shipment, etc.).

            10.7.3. Process and manifest defense courier personnel on the selected mission IAW
            AMCI 24-101, Vol. 14, Military Airlift - Passenger Service.

            10.7.4. If required, provide flightline escort to courier station personnel to
            monitor cargo loading.

       10.8. Refer to AMCI 24-101, Vol. 11, Cargo and Mail Policy, and Vol. 14,
       Military Airlift - Passenger Service, for additional courier information.


11. Additional Crew Member (ACM) Travel (AMCI 11-208, AMC Tanker/Airlift
Operations). An additional crew member is an individual who possesses valid flight orders or
supporting message authorizing ACM status.

       11.1. ACM Policy. Qualified Mission Design Series (MDS)-specific crew members may
       travel aboard mobility aircraft (except 89AW and special operations missions) as ACMs to
       accomplish training, evaluation, or pre-/de-position in support of mobility operations.
       ACMs are assigned in addition to the normal aircrew complement required for a mission.
       Crew members are not authorized to travel in ACM status while in leave status.

       11.2. ACM Notification Responsibility. ACMs must notify the C2 agency not later
       than 3 hours prior to scheduled aircraft departure time of their intent to travel. In turn the C2
       agency will notify the ATOC at least 3 hours prior to the scheduled departure time and
       inform them of ACM seating requirements and if team integrity is desired. ACMs who do
       not notify the C2 agency at least 3 hours prior to scheduled departure will be required to
       process through the passenger terminal for onward travel.

       11.3. ACM En Route Travel Continuation. En route C2 agencies are normally
       notified of an ACM's intent to continue on the same mission in the remarks section of the
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                   19



      previous stations C2's departure message or by air-to-ground radio communications with
      the aircraft commander. In the event this method fails, ACMs who intend to continue with
      the mission they are traveling on must ensure the crew notifies the enroute C2 agency of
      their intent during the 30 minute out call.

      11.4. ACM Seating and Priority. ACMs normally travel in the crew compartment. If
      the number of ACMs desiring travel exceeds the capacity of the crew compartment, the C2
      agency will notify the ATOC, who in turn will coordinate with the passenger terminal so
      seats not previously assigned to duty or emergency leave passengers may be used for
      ACMs. Duty passengers, once manifested, will not be displaced by ACM travelers. ACMs
      have priority over space available passengers unless passengers are Category I, emergency
      leave. They will not bump planned cargo on AMC missions, unless approved by 618
      AOC/XOG. Both originating and through load space available passengers (unless on
      approved emergency leave) may be displaced by ACM travelers provided the C2 agency is
      notified not later than 3 hours prior to aircraft departure time. Once ATOC determines final
      passenger loads and seat assignments are made, passengers will not be moved from their
      assigned seats by ACMs. ACMs will report to the aircraft in sufficient time to clear customs
      and load baggage, but NLT 1 hour prior to aircraft departure time. If the ACM fails to show
      by the prescribed time, the seats will be released to the ATOC. Flight examiners have
      priority over and will not be displaced by any other ACMs. The priority of travel for flight
      examiners is MAJCOM, NAF, wing or group, then squadron, per AMCI 11-208, AMC
      Tanker/Airlift Operations.

12. Space Blocks. The intent of space blocking is to allocate space for traffic that requires
movement on a unique, nonrecurring basis. This should not be interpreted to allow users to
consistently circumvent established transportation priorities and gain unwarranted movement
precedence over other shipping activities. Advise shipping activities requesting space block
approval on a routine basis over a specific channel that this constitutes a potential abuse of this
privilege and will not be approved.

     12.1. 618 AOC/XOG Responsibilities. Confirm validity of the request and, if approved,
     notify the appropriate aerial port capability forecaster and customer of flight information.
     Annotate space block information on the GDSS Mission Detail for the selected mission. On
     commercial cargo missions, 618 AOC/XOG will only space block courier escorted material,
     monetary shipments, authorized couriers, and military working dogs (MWDs) with handlers
     on channel missions. 618 AOC/APCC may be contacted for short notice (inside 24hrs)
     requests. Send confirmation or cancellations of space blocks by message, fax, e-mail, or
     telephone to all stations concerned.

     12.2. Stations will receive confirmation of space blocks from the 618 AOC booking
     activity via telephone, fax, GDSS, or e-mail and will ensure necessary coordination to
     provide the space as directed.
20                                                     AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


     12.3. Cargo and Mail Space Block Information. Space block requests for cargo and
     mail that are submitted to 618 AOC for cargo or dual-configured missions will include the
     following information:

            12.3.1. Transportation control number.

            12.3.2. Pieces, weight, and cube.

            12.3.3. Item nomenclature.

            12.3.4. Mission number.

            12.3.5. Origin and destination stations.

            12.3.6. Justification for space block and other pertinent information (outsized
            cargo, etc.).

     12.4. Passenger Space Blocks. Space block requests for passengers that are submitted to
     the appropriate 618 AOC booking agency (618 AOC/XOGC) for cargo missions will include
     the following information:

           12.4.1. Number of passengers.

           12.4.2. For all missions include name, rank, and last four of SSN.

           12.4.3. Mission number.

           12.4.4. Origin and destination stations.

           12.4.5. Justification for space block and other pertinent information. NOTE: 618
           AOC/XOG will not space block passengers on Patriot Express or dual-configured
           aircraft as the Traffic Management Office (TMO) is responsible for booking
           passengers on these missions to prevent overbooking.

     12.5. MWDs and Handlers.

          12.5.1. MWDs will be moved on military aircraft, commercially-contracted cargo
          aircraft, and Patriot Express missions. Patriot Express missions will be on a
          case-by-case basis to avoid displacement of limited pet spaces.

          12.5.2. Shippers must contact the appropriate capability forecasting office to
          coordinate movement on military and commercially contracted cargo aircraft.
          NOTE: After duty hours, contact information control.

          12.5.3. Capability forecasting will determine a suitable mission and request space
          blocking of MWD and handlers with 618 AOC/XOG Cargo Bookies. After duty
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                            21



         hours, Information control will determine a suitable mission and request space
         blocking of MWD and handlers through 618 AOC/APCC. 618 AOC/APCC will
         contact the 618 AOC/XOG Cargo Bookies.

         12.5.4. To space block MWDs on Patriot Express missions; Transportation Offices
         must contact XOGs Passenger Section at DSN 312-779-4024 or commercial
         618-229-4024. MWDs must have a transportation account code (TAC) and TCN and
         will be billed as cargo. MWDs will be approved on a case-by-case basis after it is
         determined the ability to move on cargo missions is not available. Requests for
         movement on Patriot Express missions will normally not be approved more than 10
         days from departure to minimize the impact on pet movements.

         12.5.5. Requests for commercially-contracted cargo and Patriot Express missions
         must be accomplished a minimum of 2 working days prior to movement for approval.

         12.5.6. The following must be included in all requests:

                  12.5.6.1. Name, Rank, and SSN of handler (full SSN if traveling on Patriot
                  Express, last four for other missions). NOTE: In addition, commercial
                  "passenger" missions require date and place of birth of handler.

                  12.5.6.2. Branch of Service.

                  12.5.6.3. TCN and type of dog (Explosive, Drug, Search and Rescue, etc.).
                  Identify any HAZMAT accompanying the shipment.

                  12.5.6.4. Total Weight (dog, kennel, food, bags).

                  12.5.6.5. Include a separate entry on Patriot Express missions for dog and
                  kennel only (must not exceed the number of pets or ACL listed in GATES).

                  12.5.6.6. Mission number, departure date/time, aerial port of embarkation
                  (APOE) , aerial port of debarkation (APOD).

                  12.5.6.7. 24-hour POC name and number (DSN and commercial).

13. Movement of Animals.

    13.1. For transportation of household pets (cats and dogs) see DTR 4500.9-R, Part 1,
    Passenger Movement, Chapter 103.
  22                                                      AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


       13.2. For any other type of animal (birds, fish, mammals, reptiles, etc.) movement (for
       official purposes, non-PCS), see DOD 4515.13R, Air Transportation Eligibility. NOTE:
       Service animals with approved documentation are not considered pets.

14. Handling of Traffic on Aborted/Diverted Flights.

       14.1. Aborted Flights at Station of Origin.

              14.1.1. In cases where a flight returns to point of origin and requires change of
              aircraft without any change in loads, manifest header information will be changed to
              reflect the aircraft number and date of departure. At non-automated stations, if
              manifest header data has been sent to the data processing center (DPC), send a
              message notifying them of the change in aircraft number and departure date so a new
              header card may be prepared.

              14.1.2. When a flight returns to point of origin and substitute aircraft is not available
              to move the traffic, return the traffic to the terminal and ensure the shipment is
              processed back into the movement ready on-hand file for future load planning. At
              non automated stations, re-enter shipment in the on-hand level for movement on
              other flights. Mark manifests as "void" and notify the appropriate DPC so detail
              information contained on the manifests will not be processed.

              14.1.3. Place appropriate comments in the AMC Form 77/AMC Form 68 remarks
              block for aborted missions. Utilize same mission folder for mission completion of
              aborted flights.

       14.2. Aborted and Diverted Flights at En Route Stops.

              14.2.1. When an aircraft aborts or diverts at an en route stop and traffic will
              continue on the same aircraft at a later date, no change in documentation is required.

              14.2.2. In cases where traffic is offloaded from an aborted/diverted aircraft and the
              load is selected to move on a different aircraft, process thru-load manifests as
              terminating manifests. Create new manifests for shipments and identify such traffic
              as intransit on the detail record.

              14.2.3. Once offloaded, cargo and mail for an APOD other than the manifested
              destination will be entered into the backlog for subsequent shipment to the APOD. If
              the mission's destination is changed to the APOD of the traffic, it is permissible to
              leave the traffic on the aircraft and re-manifest it to destination. Prepare a new
              manifest using the inbound manifest as source data and follow normal distribution
              procedures. If there is insufficient time to re-manifest the traffic prior to ETD of the
              aircraft, it is acceptable to manually change the manifest header data and prepare a
              new manifest after aircraft departure. In such cases, normal distribution of the
              manifest will be made to include providing copies to the manifest destination.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  23



            Shipments in this category are exempt from AMCI 24-101, Vol. 11, Cargo and Mail
            Policy provisions which require re-weighing and re-accomplishment of DD Form
            2775, Pallet Identifier.

15. Baggage Pallet Utilization on AMC Aircraft. When 20 or more passengers/troops are to
be loaded on an AMC aircraft, a pallet position will be left open to accommodate the palletized
baggage. If there is no space for a baggage pallet, the ATOC duty officer/senior controller in
coordination with aircraft loadmaster/boom operator may approve floor loading of the baggage.
NOTE: The KC-10 requires a baggage pallet/position when there are more than 10 passengers.
Reference AFI 11-2KC-10, Vol. 3, KC-10 Operations Procedures, and T.O. 1C-10(K) A-9.

16. Aerial Port Engine Running On and Offload (ERO) Procedures. EROs will be used to
expedite the flow of aircraft when ground time warrants a departure from normal operation. EROs
are primarily useful in combat, contingency, or training operations and can be used to increase
velocity when required.

     16.1. ATOC Authority. ATOC is the coordinating and approving authority for aerial
     port ERO support. EROs will not be used for convenience and will not be requested unless
     they will enhance velocity, training, and mission effectiveness. When aerial port or
     maintenance mission requirements indicate an ERO, ATOC can request an ERO through
     Command Post, who in turn, will coordinate with the aircrew.

     16.2. Applicable Aircraft. ERO operations will be performed only on US Air Force
     active and reserve component C-130, C-5, C-17, and C-21 aircraft. Safe EROs on C-21
     aircraft only require crew coordination and adherence to applicable regulations AFI
     11-2C-XXX-V3, (aircraft type) Operations Procedures and the Operational Risk Principles
     listed in paragraph 16.4 below.

     16.3. Types of ERO Requests.

            16.3.1. Planned ERO Based on Mission Directive, Operation Order (OPORD), or
            JA/ATT. This is the preferred ERO method for aerial port support. ATOC/capability
            forecasting will track these requests and facilitate aerial port actions in accordance
            with this paragraph.

            16.3.2. Short Notice ERO Request. This is a request from an aircrew and it is not
            normally approved. This request must be coordinated between the aircrew, ATOC,
            maintenance, local Command Post, and when necessary, 618 AOC/XOCG. For
            arriving aircraft, the aircrew, port, or maintenance should request ERO support NLT
            30 minutes prior to ETA. For departing aircraft, requests will be made at crew show
            time. This will allow Operational Risk Management (ORM) assessments (see
            paragraph 16.4), work center coordination, essential work load adjustments,
            passenger preparations, and ERO safety briefings.
24                                                  AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


        16.3.3. Non-running to Running ERO Request. This is a request to start engines
        during aircraft on-loading. This request should only be considered for C-17 aircraft
        under normal strategic airlift conditions. The use of this ERO reduces aircraft
        pre-flight preparation time and accommodates any last minute loading or maintenance
        situations. Aircraft commanders are responsible for contacting the Command Post to
        request an ERO. The Command Post will notify ATOC and the duty officer/senior
        controller will determine if there is an ERO qualified load team available. The aircraft
        commander will not start engines until ATOC approves the ERO. If the ATOC
        approves the ERO, the mission loadmaster will conduct a safety briefing prior to
        starting the ERO operations, as he/she is responsible for the overall safety and
        supervision of the load crew. ATOC will also contact Passenger Service to advise
        them about passenger loading.

 16.4. Operational Risk Management (ORM). The ATOC will ensure use of the six-step
 ORM process to determine if ERO support will be provided based on a local risk assessment.
 Each ERO request will require a separate assessment to include but not limited to:

        16.4.1. Identifying the hazard.

        16.4.2. Assessing the risks.

        16.4.3. Analyzing risk control measures.

        16.4.4. Making control decisions.

        16.4.5. Implementing risk control measures.

        16.4.6. Assessing and considering:

                 16.4.6.1. Mission visibility.

                 16.4.6.2. Availability of qualified personnel.

                 16.4.6.3. Aircraft load characteristics.

                 16.4.6.4. Overall operational mission impact on other arrivals and
                 departures.

 16.5. Use of Checklists. Use of the applicable ERO checklist is mandatory for all EROs
 performed on C-5, C-17, and C-130 aircraft. These checklists are located under AMCI
 24-101, Volume 11, Cargo and Mail Policy at URL: www.e-publishing.af.mil.

 16.6. Passenger Operations. Passenger service agents will brief passengers about the
 ERO prior to boarding, IAW AMCI 24-101, Vol. 14, Military Airlift Passenger Service.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  25



   16.7. Explosive Operations. Aircraft with Class/Division 1.1 through 1.3, 1.5 and 1.6 will
   only be provided ERO support if authorized by an OPORD. ATOC will verify this through
   local Command Post or 618 AOC/APCC. Aircraft with Class/Division 1.4 can be ERO'd
   without an OPORD. NOTE: Any ERO of explosives requires a thorough ORM
   consideration.

   16.8. Training and Certification Requirements. Aerial port commanders will take the
   necessary actions to ensure personnel are trained and available to support EROs when training
   and velocity can be achieved. Personnel assigned to ERO duties must be task certified using
   the Qualification Training Program (QTP) IAW AMCI 24-101, Vol. 20, Air Transportation
   Standardization/Evaluation (ATSEV) Quality Assurance, and applicable requirements in
   AMCI 24-101, Vol. 22, Air Transportation Training Requirements.

17. AMC Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF), Non-TWCF, Category B, and
Air Reserve Component (ARC) Aircraft.

    17.1. Utilization of AMC TWCF Airlift Missions. Passenger, cargo, and dual
    configured missions including dual-configured unused space aboard SAAM, exercise, and
    contingency missions between CONUS and overseas and within overseas area:

            17.1.1. Only traffic eligible for transportation under the provisions of DOD
            4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility, may move on AMC aircraft between the
            CONUS and overseas areas and between overseas areas.

            17.1.2. Some traffic (cargo or mail and passengers) may move over more than one
            published channel to arrive at the final destination for the consignee. All
            documentation for traffic of this nature must reflect the final destination AMC
            terminal identifier code (point where traffic departs AMC system for movement via
            other modes) as the APOD. The originating terminal (point where traffic entered
            AMC system) will reflect its terminal identifier code as the APOE. Should a change
            in traffic status require modification of these elements, return all documentation to
            the appropriate service representative for re-accomplishment. NOTE: The
            manifest station, APOE, and APOD are the key elements in the TWCF billing
            process. When the manifest station is the same as the APOE, TWCF will bill the
            customer to the APOD identified from the DD Form 1384, Transportation Control
            and Movement Document. Any changes made to the origin APOE can result in
            either duplicate or no billing of customers. At the first point of entry in the AMC
            airlift system, the APOE must coincide with the manifest station for billing to occur.
            When the manifest station is not the same as the APOE, this traffic is determined to
            be intransit and no billing will occur.

            17.1.3. Displacing Cargo with Passengers. Space available passenger movement
            will not be considered until provisions have been made for the movement of all
            revenue cargo, mail or passengers.
26                                                     AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


     17.2. Handling and Utilization of DOD (Non-TWCF) Aircraft for Movement of
     Non-TWCF Traffic Outside AMC Channel Routes.

          17.2.1. As DOD common user terminals, AMC Aerial Ports will provide services to
          both TWCF and Non-TWCF DOD missions IAW of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS)
          priority system. When requested Aerial ports will also provide non-reimbursable
          support services to DOD Non-TWCF missions. Non-reimbursable support services
          must not interfere with TWCF mission support requirements and no reimbursable
          expense may be incurred by the aerial port e.g. labor overtime, expendable materials,
          etc. Non-reimbursable support services include but are not limited to MHE support for
          baggage/cargo on/off-loading aircraft operations and transportation to/from the
          aircraft to/from the air terminal or the installation’s designated mobility processing
          area.

          17.2.2. When aerial ports provide MHE support only, no Joint Inspection (JI) of the
          cargo is required, and it is the responsibility of the owning organization to ensure
          cargo is properly prepared for air transportation (weight, fuel levels, center of balance,
          etc.) and manifested, to protect the safety of the aircraft, aircrew, and passengers.
          Aerial ports will use the remarks section of AMC Form 77 or AMC Form 68 to
          document aerial port loading assistance, and retain a copy of the owning organizations
          manifest.

          17.2.3. For outbound Non-TWCF missions, where the DOD unit requires more than
          MHE assistance (i.e. manifesting, load planning, etc.), the unit will, prior to arriving at
          the aerial port, ensure all cargo is prepared, packed, marked, labeled and documented
          IAW DTR 4500.9-R, Part II, Cargo Movement,and/or Part III, Mobility, as applicable,
          AFMAN 24-204 IP, Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military Air Shipments (for
          hazardous materials), MILSTD-129, Military Standard Marking for Shipment and
          Storage, and applicable TO’s. Prior to aircraft loading, the aerial port personnel will
          perform a JI with the users, and the aerial port will create/retain a copy of the manifest
          for the station work file.

                   17.2.3.1. When Aerial Ports provide full aerial ports services, GATES will
                   be used for manifesting/ITV.

          17.2.4. When space is allotted to AMC on Non-TWCF support missions routed over
          an existing validated AMC channel, all cargo and passengers in the aerial port backlog
          will be selected by priority/system entry time and load planned appropriately.

     17.3. Utilization of Commercial Contract Aircraft.

          17.3.1. Passenger and Dual-Configured (passenger and cargo) Aircraft. Any
          passenger traffic authorized by DOD 4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility, may
          travel on the aircraft. Hazardous cargo must be packaged to meet Quantity Limitations
          according to either AFMAN 24-204_IP, Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military
          Air Shipments, 49 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), International Civil Aviation
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                               27



         Organization (ICAO) or the International Air Transport Association (IATA) for
         passenger movement.

         17.3.2. Commercial Cargo Aircraft.

                  17.3.2.1. Cargo and mail authorized movement by DOD 4515.13-R, Air
                  Transportation Eligibility, will be in accordance with DTR 4500.9-R. All
                  hazardous material will be in compliance with either: AFMAN 24-204_IP,
                  Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military Air Shipments, (under
                  DOT-SP-7573) and the appropriate competent authority approvals (CAA) or
                  DOT exemptions, 49 CFR, ICAO, or IATA.

                  17.3.2.2. Do not move passengers on cargo-configured aircraft except as
                  indicated:

                            17.3.2.2.1. Escorts for HRs.

                            17.3.2.2.2. Any individual specifically identified in official
                            travel order as a courier, guard, or escort for cargo or courier
                            material.

                            17.3.2.2.3. Contract Administrators (CA) and Contracting
                            Officer Representative (COR) in performance of duties outlined
                            in International Airlift Contract’s PWS and QASP.

                            17.3.2.2.4. The number of passengers is normally limited to two.
                            However, there are provisions in the standard category B contract
                            that allows for installation of a third seat if there is sufficient
                            space, and the contractor is notified of the requirement 24 hours
                            prior to scheduled departure.

   17.4. Utilization of ARC Aircraft Operating with an AMC Mission Identifier. Cargo
   and mail authorized by DOD 4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility, may be moved on
   these aircraft between the CONUS and overseas areas and between and within overseas areas
   on dual-configured and cargo configured aircraft.

   17.5. Utilization of ARC Aircraft Operating with an ARC Mission Identifier.
   Reference AMCI 11-208, AMC Tanker/Airlift Operations, for specific guidance; this
   includes training missions.

   17.6. Utilization of AMC Aircraft for Movement of Opportune Traffic.
  28                                                       AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


             17.6.1. As outlined in DOD 4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility, aircraft in a
             positioning, repositioning, or training status may be employed in the movement of
             DOD cargo and passengers on an opportune basis. Opportune airlift is any aircraft not
             on a scheduled channel mission which offers space for passengers, cargo, and/or mail.
             It is the use of organic aircraft in a secondary role to the primary mission and the
             portion of airlift capability available for use after planned mission requirements have
             been met. NOTE: An aircraft positioning/repositioning to/from a channel mission
             can be considered opportune airlift, but caution must be taken to ensure opportune
             cargo does not interfere with or delay the scheduled departure of channel mission.

18. Utilization of SAAM Aircraft. Use of unused space aboard SAAM aircraft for movement
of eligible traffic in accordance with DOD 4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility, is authorized
provided user requirements have been met and there are no security or training requirements that
would preclude the movement of eligible traffic. The senior AMC representative, air terminal
manager or aircraft commander (when no AMC representative is available) in conjunction with
the troop commander (or user if no passenger/troop commander is on board) will make the
determination to move eligible traffic.

19. Enroute Aerial Port Services Support for Host Installation Mobility Operations and
Transiting Mobility Forces

       19.1. For host wing installation deployment activities to include all services assigned to the
       host installation, the host or joint base installation commander (Wing/ABG/CC) is
       responsible to ensure installation is capable of supporting deployment operations IAW AFI
       10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, and determines augmentation program
       requirements. AMC aerial ports will provide MHE, Load Team Chief and JI inspection
       support, and may provide additional support as detailed between the tenant APS/AMS and
       the Host Installation.

       19.2. For operations involving DOD transiting forces; originating, in-transit or terminating,
       (e.g., deploying/redeploying forces not assigned to the host wing), all required aerial port
       services support will be provided by the aerial port with augmentation from transiting forces
       as necessary IAW DTR part III, Mobility, chapter 303, para b.2.b.(3) and para b.2.c.(1). The
       aerial port should not be expected to perform Arrival/Departure Airfield Control Group
       (A/DACG) functions.

             19.2.1. Unless specifically tasked by the unified command to provide an A/DACG
             function, the host wing should not be expected to augment the aerial port except in
             crisis situations (e.g., natural disaster response, humanitarian crisis) as outlined in the
             coordinated installation deployment plan/support agreement; however, the host wing
             will retain oversight and responsibility for overall coordination of deploying/
             redeploying actions to include all necessary base reception/staging. In addition, the
             aerial port will coordinate with the host through formal agreement for requirements
             that exceed aerial port capacity, (i.e., cargo and passenger staging/processing
             facilities). It is critical that the aerial port and installation deployment officer maintain
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                      29



           regular two-way communication on projected movements to facilitate integrated and
           seamless support.
20. Billing non-DOD Aircraft for Aerial Port Aircraft Services.
     20.1. As outlined in AMCI 65-602, Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF) Budget
     Guidance and Procedures, aerial ports will track airlift services provided to other than
     TWCF-controlled aircraft.

            20.1.1. Foreign Governmental Aircraft.

                     20.1.1.1. US Air Force airfields are available, with proper coordination for
                     use by foreign governmental aircraft (military and state), provided this use
                     does not interfere with military operations and use of the airfield. Routine
                     airfield services will be provided by aerial port units to support foreign
                     governmental aircraft on a non-reimbursable basis. As stated in AFI
                     10-1801, Foreign Governmental Aircraft Landings at United States Air
                     Force Installations, routine airfield services is defined as crew, passenger,
                     and baggage on/off-loading, screening, and transportation to/from the
                     aircraft, terminal, and base operations. Additional routine services may be
                     provided on a non-reimbursable basis at the discretion of the installation
                     commander provided there is no additional cost to the Air Force to do so.
                     AMC/A4TC also identifies cargo on/off-loading operations and
                     transportation to/from aircraft, terminal, and base operations as routine
                     services.

                     20.1.1.2. All foreign countries will be provided routine airfield services
                     without charge unless specifically identified as not providing reciprocal
                     services (all foreign countries are assumed to be under an agreement for the
                     exchange of these services or be providing similar services to military and
                     other state aircraft of the United States).

                     20.1.1.3. If determined by the installation commander or designated
                     representative that billing is warranted, aerial ports will bill for services not
                     defined as routine services (e.g.; cargo preparation, pallet build
                     up/breakdown, or other operations that would not meet the definition of
                     cross-docking). See paragraph 20.2 for billing instructions.

                     20.1.1.4. Billing documentation specified in paragraph 20.2 is not
                     required for routine airfield services. Tonnage handled and passengers
                     processed will be reflected on the 7107, Monthly Station Traffic Handling
                     Report.

                     20.1.1.5. Reimbursable charges for supplies and services furnished to a
                     foreign governmental aircraft that result in additional cost to the Air Force
  30                                                      AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


                        will be charged to the foreign government (i.e., consumables not
                        reimbursed under TWCF). All supplies and services will be charged under
                        appropriate arrangements, e.g., Foreign Military Sales (FMS) case,
                        Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement (ACSA), authorized air and/or
                        credit card for fuel purchases or billed directly to the foreign government.

                        20.1.1.6. Aerial ports will not obligate aircraft maintenance services, issue
                        supply accountable parts or allow access to USAF Technical Orders (T.O.)
                        without calling HQ AMC/A4RXP at, DSN 779-2947.

             20.1.2. Non-DOD Aircraft. Aerial Ports will submit billing documentation as
             outlined in paragraph 20.2 through 20.4 for all services provided to non-DOD aircraft.

       20.2. Preparing and Submitting the Aerial Port Billing Document. Aerial ports will
       submit a memorandum through their local finance office to the Defense Finance Accounting
       Service (DFAS) IAW AMCI 65-602, Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF) Budget
       Guidance and Procedures to initiate carrier billing. This memorandum will be submitted as
       soon as possible after completion of ground services and/or supply support, but not later than
       three duty days. The memorandum will detail all handling of inbound and outbound
       segments of the mission. The aerial port will provide a copy to the carrier's representative or
       crew in the event there is no representative, and retain a file copy in AMC Form 77/AMC
       Form 68 IAW disposition requirements.

       20.3. A4TC Web Page Memorandum Template. A self-explanatory template with
       three attachments for this memorandum is available for download on the A4TC web page
       titled “Reimbursement for Non-DOD Aircraft” at URL: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/
       USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4tc/cargo/tools/hello.html.

       20.4. Cash/Check Payment for Services. In the event cash or check payment is made or
       necessary for services, the aerial port will complete a DD Form 1131, Cash Collection
       Voucher, that will be submitted to the local Finance Service Office by the squadron Resource
       Manager on the next business day. NOTE: A format for this form is available on the A4TC
       web page at URL: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/
       a4t/a4tc/cargo/tools/hello.html.

Section D— Border Clearance

21. Border Clearance - General.

       21.1. Border clearance is IAW Department of Defense Foreign Clearance Guide (FCG) and
       can be found at website: https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil/. Passengers, crew members, and
       their personal property; equipment, cargo, mail, and all other items (including the aircraft)
       transported across political boundaries on AMC aircraft must comply with the laws and
       regulations of the country involved. The DOD FCG prescribes requirements of foreign
       governments for personal identification documents, customs, health, and diplomatic
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 31



   clearance of aircraft and cargo. (See Attachment 5 for diplomatic clearance procedures.) This
   section does not apply to US Air Force Reserve (AFRC) units.

   21.2. Border Clearance Agencies. Requirements for United States border clearance are
   prescribed in the laws and regulations of the following agencies:

          21.2.1. Customs Bureau. Performs inspection and clearance of all personal
          baggage and cargo imported to or exported from the United States, including receipt
          of necessary documentation from carriers and passengers; receipt of necessary export
          declarations from carriers for submission to the Foreign Trade Division, Bureau of
          Census and Department of Commerce; control of the importation of wild animals,
          wild birds, plumage and eggs, in compliance with the laws of the Fish and Wildlife
          Service, Department of the Interior; and, control of the importation of foods and
          drugs in compliance with laws of the Food and Drug Administration.

          21.2.2. Immigration and Naturalization Service. Performs clearance of all
          aliens and US citizens into and out of the US in compliance with laws of the
          Departments of Justice and the Department of State, to include examination and
          receipt of necessary documentation from carriers and passengers.

          21.2.3. Department of Agriculture. Controls the importation of plants, plant
          products, fresh fruits, vegetables, domestic animals, animal products, poultry, hay,
          straw, and similar materials. They will receive all necessary documentation from
          carriers, passengers, and crew.

          21.2.4. Public Health Service. Ensures all crew members and passengers
          traveling on AMC aircraft to or from a foreign area comply with directives relative to
          immunization requirements, quarantine procedures, and fumigation of aircraft.

          21.2.5. To ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, all AMC aircraft
          entering or departing the United States to or from a foreign area must clear through an
          APOE, APOD or a customs port of entry where border clearance can be obtained.
          Border clearance inspectors are available or on call at all AMC APOEs.

   21.3. References. The following directives implement laws and regulations pertaining to
   border clearance requirements. Refer to these directives for specific and regional
   requirements:

          21.3.1. DTR 4500.9R, Part V, Department of Defense Customs and Border
          Clearance Policies and Procedures.

          21.3.2. DODD 4500.54-E, DOD Foreign Clearance Guide.
32                                                  AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


          21.3.3. AFJI 48-104, Quarantine Regulations of the Armed Forces.

 21.4. Supply of Forms. The port operations officer, senior AMC representative, or
 equivalent will be responsible for maintaining a 3-month supply of necessary border
 clearance forms for passengers and cargo (United States and foreign) for those destinations or
 channels serviced by their station. Maintain these forms so as to be readily available for
 military and contract flights. The COR will ensure commercial carriers provide a sufficient
 number of border clearance forms on each aircraft to meet appropriate agency requirements.
 (See applicable border clearance directive from paragraph 21.3 above for forms
 requirements). Minimal form requirements include:

          21.4.1. I-94 W, Nonimmigrant Visa Waiver Arrival/Departure Form.

          21.4.2. CBP-3171, Application Permit, Special License Unlading-Lading-Overtime
          Services.

          21.4.3. CBP-3461, Entry/Immediate Delivery, in lieu of CF 7501, Entry Summary,
          to be furnished within 30 days.

          21.4.4. CBP-6059B, Customs Declaration.

          21.4.5. CBP-7501, Entry Summary.

          21.4.6. CBP-7507, General Declaration, Agriculture, Customs, Immigration, and
          Public Health.

          21.4.7. CBP-7512, Transportation Entry and Manifest of Goods Subject to CBP
          Inspection and Permit.

          21.4.8. DC Form 7525V, Shipper's Export Declaration.

          21.4.9. DD Form 1252/1252-1, US Customs and Border Protection (CBP)
          Declaration for Personal Property Shipments, Part I and Part II.

     21.5. Inspection Overtime. When it is necessary to request overtime services of
     Customs, Immigrations, Department of Agriculture, and Public Health Service inspectors,
     take the following action:

           21.5.1. File (in advance when possible) requests with the Customs inspector for
           overtime service on Customs Form (CF) 3171, Application-Permit-Special License
           Unlading-Lading-Overtime Services. This form may also be used to confirm an oral
           request. All requests must have financial approval and reservation of funds as soon
           as possible after ordering. Port personnel will maintain records to certify Standard
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                               33



          Form 1080, Voucher for Transfers between Appropriations and/or Funds, as a
          receipt of overtime services. As a minimum, records will consist of whether or not
          missions serviced were out of the Transportation Working Capital Fund, the
          inspector's name and overtime hours worked; and an audit of overtime worked vice
          aircraft arrival or departure log.

          21.5.2. Prior to certification of receipt of services for payment, review the file to
          ensure all items are correct.

    21.6. Commanders of Regular and Limited Airport of Entry (AOE). Commanders
    of AOEs and air bases that are customs ports of entry will:

          21.6.1. Establish local procedures to ensure all entry and departure requirements
          for aircraft, crew members, passengers, baggage and cargo are met per DTR
          4500.9-R, Part V, Customs and Border Clearance Policies and Procedures and the
          DOD FCG.

          21.6.2. Designate an appropriate functional element or official to furnish timely
          advance notice of aircraft arrivals and departures to the Federal Inspection Service
          (FIS) and maintain an active liaison with local FIS officials.

          21.6.3. Ensure quarantine is imposed in compliance with AFJI 48-104, Quarantine
          Regulations of the Armed Forces, when an epidemic of communicable disease
          creates a hazard through the spread of disease within the area of command as a result
          of aircraft movement. Quarantine will be affected whether outbreak occurs among
          military or civilian personnel.

          21.6.4. Institute procedures to ensure crew members and passengers meet the
          following requirements before departing the point of origin:

                   21.6.4.1. Valid passports and visas when required by the DOD FCG.

                   21.6.4.2. Current immunization and vaccination documentation in
                   compliance with the DOD FCG and AFJI 48-110, Immunizations and
                   Chemoprophylaxis.

                   21.6.4.3. A briefing on action to safeguard classified material in an
                   emergency as defined in DODM 5200.01-V1, DOD Information Security
                   Program: Overview, Classification, and Declassification, and AFI 31-401,
                   Information Security Program Management.

          21.6.5. Quarterly meetings are recommended between US Customs Service Port
          Directors and the Commanders of the Airports of Entry.
34                                                    AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013



            21.6.6. Facilitate inspection and clearance of aircraft, crew members, passengers,
            baggage and cargo by border clearance officials.

            21.6.7. Commanders must provide adequate office and inspection facilities for
            border clearance activities.

            21.6.8. Coordinate with border clearance agencies to provide briefings on border
            clearance requirements for crew members and other personnel traveling on DOD
            owned/controlled aircraft.

     21.7. Senior AMC Representative at Last Port Prior to Entry. The senior AMC
     representative at the last port prior to entry into the Customs Territory of the United States
     (CTUS) will:


            21.7.1. Notify the destination base commander of aircraft requiring border
            clearance.

            21.7.2. Ensure all border clearance forms have been prepared and are in the
            possession of the aircraft commander before departure.

            21.7.3. Ensure passengers and crew members have in their personal possession
            passport, visas, and immunization and vaccination documentation as required by the
            DOD FCG.

            21.7.4. Ensure passengers and crew members are briefed regarding the following:

                     21.7.4.1. Action to take to safeguard classified material in an emergency
                     as defined by DODM 5200.01-V1, DOD Information Security Program:
                     Overview, Classification, and Declassification and AFI 31-401,
                     Information Security Management.

                     21.7.4.2. Customs, immigration and quarantine laws covering entry of
                     persons, baggage, plants and animals into the CTUS in compliance with
                     AFJI 48-104, Quarantine Regulations of the Armed Forces. Additionally,
                     prior to boarding, passengers will be made aware of restricted and
                     prohibited articles.

            21.7.5. Ensure DD Form 1252s are available for all HHG shipments.

     21.8. Aircraft Commander. The aircraft commander is responsible for ensuring aircraft
     and passengers are either pre-cleared or transit a regular AOE for full federal inspection
     services en route to the final destination. If the aircraft lands for emergency or temporary
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                      35



      reasons, the aircraft commander will ensure no cargo, baggage, personal property or
      equipment is removed from the aircraft, and no passenger or crew member depart the
      landing place unless removal or departure is necessary for safety or preservation of life and
      property. The aircraft commander must provide border clearance documentation and
      manifests to border clearance personnel upon arrival.

      21.9. Inspections. Actual inspections will follow guidelines established in DTR
      4500.9R, Part V, DOD Customs and Border Clearance Policies and Procedures.

Section E— Intransit Visibility


22. Intransit Visibility (ITV). ITV is the ability to track the identity, status, and location of
DOD unit and non-unit cargo, passengers, patients, forces, military and commercial airlift, sealift,
surface assets, and personal property from origin to consignee or destination during peace,
contingencies and war.

     22.1. IGC is the DOD's single designated source for in-transit shipment information that
     supports the family of transportation users and providers--both DOD and commercial. IGC
     collects and integrates transportation information from selected transportation systems and gives
     its customers located anywhere in the world, a seamless near-real-time capability to access and
     employ transportation and deployment information: https://www.igc.ustranscom.mil/igc/.

     22.2. GATES is the IGC ITV feeder system used by AMC aerial ports and deployed forces
     to process, manifest, and track passengers and cargo; support resource management and
     provide command and control support information. Specific requirements and information
     for use of GATES is found at: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/
     1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/gates/hello.html.

             22.2.1. HQ AMC/A4T is the functional manager for GATES and common-user
             aerial port ITV business processes. HQ AMC/A4TI serves as the command ITV
             functional manager. HQ AMC/A4TI ensures and monitors ITV capabilities at fixed
             aerial ports.

     22.3. ITV for Contingency/Mobility Operations. Commanders of AMC owned and/or
     operated aerial ports will ensure all AMC owned or controlled airlift missions departing their
     station have all mobility cargo and passengers manifested in GATES. Deploying units
     remain responsible for providing the ITV source information (DTR 4500.9-R, Part III,
     Mobility, Chap. 302) and aerial ports will continue to advise/assist units as required. To meet
     these requirements, AMC units will use one of the following procedures to ensure GATES is
     utilized as the ITV source provided to IGC: NOTE: This requirement will not apply to
     those instances where the local base LRS oversees the deployment processing and
     manifesting function using CMOS since the port is only augmenting the wing deployment
     process.
36                                                  AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


        22.3.1. Import the cargo/passenger data into GATES utilizing the unit provided
        ATCMD file (i.e., TC-AIMS II, MDSS II, CMOS, etc.) for cargo and XMAN for
        passengers. Cargo data import instructions are available in the GATES User Manual
        (GUM) on the GATES Informational Community of Practice (COP), under Cargo
        Data Management. Request for/access to the GATES Informational COP is located on
        the     HQ     AMC/A6         website:     https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/
        DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-LG-AM-73-4-5-4&Filter=OO-LG-AM-73
        The current XMAN version is located on the HQ AMC/A4TI website:
        https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/itvinfo/
        hello.html. This is the only version to be used for passengers.

        22.3.2. Hand input all cargo and passenger data into GATES utilizing the unit
        provided manual cargo manifest/TCMD and/or passenger manifest.

 22.4. In the event that the deploying unit is unable to provide the data via electronic means,
 the port will assist and then notify HQ AMC/A4TC who will advise the unit’s parent
 MAJCOM.


                                                         JOHN C. TOBIN, Col, USAF
                                                         Deputy Director of Logistics
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                37




                                        Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

DOD Directive 1300.22, Mortuary Affairs Policy, 25 May 2011

DODD 4500.54E, DOD Foreign Clearance Guide, 28 December 2009

DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part I, Passenger Movement, November 2010

DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part II, Cargo Movement, June 2008

DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part III, Mobility, July 2011

DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part V, Customs, January 2011

DOD 4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility, November 1994

DODI 5200.33, Defense Courier Operations (DCO), 30 June 2011

DODM 5200.01-V1, DOD Information Security Program: Overview, Classification, and
Declassification, 24 February 2012

AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 20 September 2012

AFI 10-1801, Foreign Governmental Aircraft Landings at United States Air Force Installations, 1
September 1997

AFI 11-2C130, Vol. 3, C-130 Operations Procedures, 23 April 2012

AFI 11-2C130J, Vol. 3, C-130J Operations Procedures, 8 December 2009

AFI 11-2C-5, Vol. 3, C-5 Operations Procedures, 24 February 2012

AFI 11-2C-17, Vol. 3, C-17 Operations Procedures, 16 November 2011

AFI 11-2KC-10, Vol. 3, KC-10 Operations Procedures, 30 August 2011

AFI 11-2KC-135, Vol 3, KC-135 Operations Procedures, 18 September 2008

AFI 20-110, Nuclear Weapons-Related Materials Management, 18 February 2011
  38                                                 AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013



AFI 24-203, Preparation and Movement of Air Force Cargo, 2 November 2010

AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005

AFI 32-1024, Standard Facility Requirements, 14 July 2011

AFI 33-106, Managing High Frequency Radios, Personal Wireless Communications Systems, and
the Military Affiliate Radio System, 9 January 2002

AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, 2 April 2008

AFJI 11-204, Operational Procedures for Aircraft Carrying Hazardous Materials, 11 November 1994

AFJI 48-104, Quarantine Regulations of the Armed Forces, 24 January 1992

AFJI 48-110, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis, 29 September 2006

AFMAN 24-204_IP, Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military Air Shipments, 3 December 2012


AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications, 25 November 2011

AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

AMCI 10-202, V6, Mission Management and Reliability Reporting System (MMRRS), 15 March 2011

AMCI 11-208, AMC Tanker/Airlift Operations, 1 June 2000

AMCI 23-102, Expeditious Movement of AMC MICAP/VVIP/Assets, 29 June 2009

AMCI 24-101, Vol. 6, Transportation Documentation, Data, Record, and Reports, 23 July 2012

AMCI 24-101, Vol. 7, AMC Aerial Port Expeditor (APEX) Aircraft Loading Program, 24 July 2012

AMCI 24-101, Vol. 11, Cargo and Mail Policy, 7 April 2006

AMCI 24-101, Vol. 14, Military Airlift - Passenger Service, 14 August 2012

AMCI 24-101, Vol. 18, Military Airlift - AMC Mobilized Aerial Port Forces and Aerial
Delivery Flights, 24 March 2011

AMCI 24-101, Vol. 20, Air Transportation Standardization/Evaluation (ATSEV) Quality
Assurance, 11 January 2008

AMCI 24-101, Vol. 22, Air Transportation Training Requirements, 31 December 2012
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                            39




AMCI 65-602, Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF) Budget Guidance and Procedures,
23 December 2009

T.O. 1C-10(K) A-9, Cargo Loading Manual, December 2008

49-CFR, Transportation, 8 August 2012

IATA, Dangerous Goods Regulation (Required), 2011

ICAO, Technical Instructions for the Safe Transport of Dangerous Goods by Air (Recommended),
2011

Prescribed Forms

AMC Form 77, Aircraft Ground handling Record

AMC Form 145, Passenger Deviation Request

Adopted Forms

AMC Form 56, Re-handled Workload

AMC Form 30, APEX Mission Load Brief Cover Sheet

AMC Form 68, Aerial Port Movement Log

AMC Form 85, Aircraft Handled by Type

AMC Form 302, Cargo/Passenger Envelope and Checklist

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

AF Form 4080, Load and Sequence Breakdown Worksheet

DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher

DD Form 1252/1252-1, US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Declaration for Personal
Property Shipments, Part I and Part II

DD Form 1384, Transportation Control and Movement Document

DD Form 1385, Cargo Manifest

DD Form 2775, Pallet Identifier
  40                                                AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013



I-94 W, Nonimmigrant Visa Waiver Arrival/Departure Form

CBP-3171, Application Permit, Special License Unlading-Lading-Overtime Services

CBP-3461, Entry/Immediate Delivery

CBP-6059B, Customs Declaration

CBP-7501, Entry Summary

CBP-7507, General Declaration, Agriculture, Customs, Immigration, and Public Health

CBP-7512, Transportation Entry and Manifest of Goods Subject to CBP Inspection and Permit

DC Form 7525V, Shipper's Export Declaration

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ACA - Airlift Clearance Authority

ACL - Allowable Cabin Load

ACM - Additional Crew Members

ACSA - Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement

A/DACG - Arrival/Departure Airfield Control Group

AE - Aero-medical Evacuation

AFMAN - Air Force Manual

AFRC - Air Force Reserve Command

AMC - Air Mobility Command

AMS - Air Mobility Squadron

AOC - Air and Space Operations Center

AOE - Airport of Entry

APEX - Aerial Port Expeditor

APOD - Aerial Port of Debarkation
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                             41




APOE - Aerial Port of Embarkation

APS - Aerial Port Squadron

ARC - Air Reserve Components

ATOC - Air Terminal Operations Center

ATSEV - Air Transportation Standardization/Evaluation

C2 - Command and Control

CAA - Competent Authority Approval

CBP - Customs and Border Protection

CCC - Command and Control Center

CDDOC - COCOM Deployment Distribution Operations Center

CIC - Customer Identification Code

CMOS - Cargo Movement Operations System

COCOM - Combatant Command

COMM - Commercial

CONUS - Continental United States

COP - Community of Practice

COR - Contracting Officer Representative

CRW – Contingency Response Wing

CTUS - Customs Territory of the United States

DDOC - Deployment and Distribution Operation Center

DOD - Department of Defense

DOT - Department of Transportation
  42                                             AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


DTR - Defense Transportation Regulation

DTS - Defense Transportation System

DV - Distinguished Visitors

ECWR - Explosives Clearance Worksheet Request

EO - Explosive Ordnance

EOD - Explosive Ordinance Disposal

ERO - Engine Running Onload or Offload

ETA - Estimated Time of Arrival

ETD - Estimated Time of Departure

FCG - Foreign Clearance Guide

FIS - Federal Inspection Service

FMS - Foreign Military Sales

GATES - Global Air Transportation Execution System

GDSS - Global Decision Support System

GUM - GATES User Manual

HQ AMC/A4T - Air Transportation Division

HQ AMC/A4TC - Cargo and Traffic Management Branch, Air Transportation Division

HQ AMC/A4TI - Transportation Systems and Data Management Branch, Air Transportation
Division

HQ AMC/A4TP - Passenger Branch, Air Transportation Division

HQ AMC/A4TR - Transportation Resources Branch, Air Transportation Division

IAA - Israeli Aviation Authority

ICODES - Integrated Computerized Deployment System

IBD - Inhabited Building Distance
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                         43




IDE - Integrated Data Environment

IDF - Israeli Defense Forces

IGC - Integrated Data Environment (IDE)/Global Transportation Network (GTN) Convergence

IT - Information Technology

ITO/TMO - Transportation Office/Traffic Management Office

ITV - In-transit Visibility

JA/ATT - Joint Airborne/Air Transportability Training

JCS - Joint Chiefs of Staff

JI - Joint Inspection
LOC - Lines of Communication

LRS - Logistics Readiness Squadron

MAF - Mobility Air Forces

MEP - Mission Essential Personnel

MDS - Mission Design Series

MICAP - Mission Capability Assets

MLR - Mission Load Report

MRT - Maintenance Repair Team

MWD - Military Working Dog

NEW - Net Explosive Weight

NRA - Non-Revenue Airlift

NWRM - Nuclear Weapons Readiness Material

OPORD - Operation Order
  44                                              AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


ORM - Operational Risk Management

OSA - Operational Support Airlift

OSD - Office of the Secretary of Defense

PL - Precision Loading

PSN - Proper Shipping Name

PWS - Performance Work Statement

QASP - Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan

QTP - Qualification Training Program

SAAM - Special Assignment Airlift Mission

SAM - Special Air Mission

SNCO - Senior Non Commissioned Officer

SLPC - Single Load Planning Capability

SMS - Single Mobility System

SOE - Sequence of Events

SWOG - Special Weapons Over Flight Guide
TAC - Transportation Account Code

TCAIMS II - Transportation Coordinator's Automated Information for Movement System II

TCMD - Transportation Control and Movement Document

TCN - Transportation Control Number

TDA - Turkish Diplomatic Authorization

TWCF - Transportation Working Capital Fund

UN - United Nations

USAFR - United States Air Force Reserve

USTRANSCOM - United States Transportation Command
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                    45




XOCZD - 618 Air and Space Operations Center (TACC) International Clearance Branch

Terms

APOD - A station that serves as an authorized port to process and clear aircraft, ships, and traffic
for entrance to the country in which it is located.

APOE - A station that serves as an authorized port to process and clear aircraft, ships, and traffic
for departure from a particular country.

Cargo - Any items or supplies.

CMOS - CMOS is an Installation Transportation Office/Traffic Management Office (ITO/TMO)
system. CMOS integrates computer hardware, software, and communications to effectively plan,
document and manage outbound and inbound cargo and passengers; and to plan, schedule, and
monitor the execution of transportation activities in support of deployment and reception of forces.
CMOS provides warfighters with an end-to-end distribution capability and real time in-transit
visibility during all passenger and cargo movements.

Deployment - The relocation of forces to areas of operation.

Destination - The location to which units, materiel, or individuals are traveling. The Combatant
Commander, Military Services, or Defense agencies designate it.

GATES - The current real-time system that supports fixed, deployed, and mobile sites. It
processes and tracks cargo and passengers; supports resource management and provide command
and control support information. It generates cargo, passenger, and resource reports at
headquarters and unit level, and provides message routing and delivery for all AMC transportation
airlift operators regardless of size, workload volume, configuration, or location.

GDSS - GDSS is a USTRANSCOM-funded system providing Mobility Air Forces (MAF)
Command and Control (C2) information for the Defense Transportation System (DTS) to
combatant commanders throughout the full spectrum of military operations. As the MAF's
principal C2 system, the operational imperative is to deliver robust capabilities to command and
control MAF forces using a net-centric environment, allowing access and information sharing
across classified and unclassified domains. GDSS has evolved far beyond C2; features that have
been added to GDSS include the ability to plan, source and schedule (personnel and aircraft),
dispatch missions with a full array of flight services, and flight follow. GDSS has approximately
22 interfaces with other systems in various capacities.

ICODES - ICODES is a load planning software tool that assists embarkation specialists in the
rapid development of cargo load plans. Serving as the Single Load Planning Capability (SLPC) for
the Department of Defense, ICODES links load planners throughout the enterprise with each other
and authoritative data sources for near real-time collaboration in support of Joint Forces
  46                                                      AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


deployment and distribution operations. ICODES provides end-to-end supply chain visibility
through increased in-transit cargo visibility, distribution forecasting and planning, and information
visualization.

IGC - IGC allows the newer Enterprise Data Warehousing capabilities of GTN and the capability
deliveries of the IDE to be managed by a single Program Manager; retiring the legacy GTN
components in 2010, providing a state-of-the-art capability to perform reporting, ad hoc queries,
and multi-dimensional analyses, as well as, ensuring consistent access to common, authoritative
logistics data, business rules, and reliable information. IGC enhances capability to interoperate,
unifies information technology (IT) development across the Domain, synchronizes investment
into objective systems, and eliminates legacy/redundant data stores and interfaces.

In Transit Visibility - The ability to track the identity, status, and location of DOD unit and
non-unit cargo and passengers, patients, and personal property from origin to consignee or
destination during peace, contingencies, and war.

Manifest - A document listing in detail the passengers, cargo, or mail carried aboard.

NWRM - Classified or unclassified assemblies and subassemblies (containing no fissionable or
fusionable materiel) identified by the military departments that comprise or could comprise a
standardized war reserve nuclear weapon (including equivalent training devices) as it would exist
once separated/removed from its intended delivery vehicle. The AF adds definition to NWRM
(NWRM-AF) as “select nuclear combat delivery system components and use control equipment
that are design sensitive, or needed to authorize, prearm, arm, launch, release or target a nuclear
weapon, or needed to maintain and protect system integrity.”

Origin - The location from which personnel or material commence movement to a destination.

Precision Loading - Cargo Policy based on increased pallet utilization by profile and aircraft
utilization by airframe.

TC-AIMS II- TC-AIMS II provides automated support to functions now performed by unit and
installation Transportation Coordinators, who may be using manual processes. TC-AIMS II
improves and expedites unit movements and Transportation Operating Agency actions, and
provides a source of timely and accurate deployment information for use at all Joint Deployment
Community command levels. Under TC-AIMS II, unit movement, installation transportation, and
load planning functionality is accessible from a single client platform at the unit/installation level.
The processing, tracking, and reporting of data is available to decision makers at various command
levels.

TCN - A unique 17-position alphanumeric data element assigned to control a shipment unit
throughout the transportation pipeline.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                             47



TCMD - The shipment information document (DD Form 1384, Transportation Control and
Movement Document). It provides advance notice of shipments and the information necessary to
process the shipments through the Defense Transportation System. The TCMD is the basis for
preparation of air and surface manifests and for compiling logistics reports.

Theater - A geographical area outside CONUS for which a commander of a unified command has
been assigned military responsibility.

Unit - Any military element whose structure is prescribed by an authority, such as a Table of
Organization and Equipment.
  48                                                   AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


                                         Attachment 2

                            PORT TO PORT REQUIREMENTS

A2.1. Explosives: Port-to-Port Clearance Requirements.                 The APOE will request
port-to-port clearance for air shipment of explosives and applicable FMS shipments at the earliest
possible date, but NLT 24 hours prior to requested missions ETD (unless a specific location
requires a greater notification time). The APOD will respond to the request ASAP. An APOE will
not ship explosives or applicable FMS shipments without APOD approval except when free-flow
is authorized. En route stations must ensure up-line and down-line stations are aware of their
requirements to move cleared explosives and applicable FMS shipments. This should prevent
incompatible cargo from being planned and loaded by up-line and down-line stations. Explosives
port-to-port clearance requests will include:

    A2.1.1. PSN and UN Number.

    A2.1.2. Class/Division and Compatibility Group.

    A2.1.3. Net Explosives Weight (NEW).

    A2.1.4. Inhabited Building Distance (IBD), if applicable.

    A2.1.5. Commodity Code/Risk Category.

    A2.1.6. Pieces/Weight/Cube.

    A2.1.7. Requested arrival date.

    A2.1.8. Mission number.

NOTE: Class/Division 1.5 will be treated the same as Class/Division 1.1 for clearance
requirements.

    A2.1.9. All FMS shipments terminating at Ramstein AB and destined to countries within the
    USEUCOM Theater of operations will be port-to-port cleared. USEUCOM FMS validator
    will be required to ensure all end to end clearances have been met prior to requesting
    port-to-port airlift clearance.

A2.2. The APOE must consult the Foreign Clearance Guide (FCG) and the 618 International
Clearance Branch (XOCZD) for any diplomatic clearance requirements, see Attachment 5 for
more information regarding diplomatic clearance requirements. The APOE will follow procedures
listed below for the following locations: NOTE: All information is subject to change.

    A2.2.1. Alice Springs, Richmond, Australia. Richmond can only accept Class 1.1, 1.2,
    1.3, and 1.4 explosives in accordance with parking restrictions, NEW limits, and ramp
    parking locations listed in note below. All explosive shipments require 14 days clearance
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                    49



    prior to arrival. E-mail clearance requests to Det. 1, 735 AMS/TR,
    steven.melnyczenko.2.au@us.af.mil or Commercial Fax: 011-61-4587-1663. Detailed
    questions should be directed to RMC AMC OPS at Commercial: 011-61-4587-1655. After
    hours contact cell is: 61-4-0875-2714.

NOTE: Specific local restrictions for all AMC aircraft:
Class 1.1 = 49.9 kg // Western apron with waiver only. *
Class 1.2.1 = 2000 kg // Western apron.
Class 1.2.2 = 8000 kg // Western apron.
Class 1.3 =9000kgs // Western apron and 1000 kg // spot 2.**
Class 1.4 = 9000 kg // Western apron and 2000kg // spot 2/3.**
*Project Air 5398 for AGM-142 NEW=1600.
**Parking Restriction: Due to lack of separation distance between spot 2 and 3, aircraft cannot
occupy both spots during explosive ordnance (EO) loading operations.

    A2.2.2. AMC Norfolk, VA. All 1.1, 1.2, and 1.3 explosives require seven (7) to ten (10) days
    clearance. POC for clearances is the weapons station duty officer at DSN 312-565-0800 or
    Commercial 757-443-0800. Requests will include proper shipping name, class/division, piece,
    weight, cube, NEW, and UN number. All requests require a follow-up e-mail to:
    HazmatNMC@airtermnorva.navy.mil and HazmatNGU@airtermnorva.navy.mil. All 1.4
    explosives require 72 hours clearance time. POC is air terminal duty officer at DSN 312-565-6556
    or Commercial 757-445-6556. E-mail: HazmatNGU@airtermnorva.navy.mil.

    A2.2.3. Al Udeid AB, Qatar. All munitions destined for or transiting thru Qatar via
    military airlift must be pre-cleared thru Qatari customs prior to being accepted at the Aerial
    Port of Embarkation (APOE). Customs pre-clearance is a shipper’s responsibility and must be
    accomplished utilizing the GHQ (General Headquarters of Qatar) letter. The GHQ letter must
    accompany the shipment when delivered to the APOE. The APOE will not accept munitions
    destined for or transiting thru Qatar without the GHQ letter. All transiting and terminating
    Class/Division 1.1 thru 1.4 require 7 days prior notification. Outsized handling capability is
    limited to 12 positions. All clearance requests are based on parking capability and onward
    movement of explosives. POC is 8 EAMS/ Capability Forecasting, DSN 318-437-2645.
    E-mail: 8eams.troc@auab.afcent.af.mil.

    A2.2.4. Andersen AFB, Guam. Free-flow of Class/Division 1.4C, D, E, and S is
    authorized up to two 463L pallets or 1000 lbs. NEW. All other explosives require 48 hours
    clearance. Whenever possible, in-transit explosives should be planned on direct missions to
    minimize handling and storage. POC is the 734 AMS Capability Forecasting Office at DSN
    315-366-6055/3125. E-mail: 734ams.atoc@us.af.mil.

    A2.2.5. Aviano AB, Italy. All Class/Divisions of explosives must be cleared at least 48
    hours prior to departure from the APOE. Limited temporary storage is available on a
    case-by-case basis for transiting explosives. Aircraft parking is limited to 30,000 lbs. NEW.
    POC is Capability Forecasting at DSN 314-632-7321, Fax 314-632-4270. E-mail:
    cape.forecast@aviano.af.mil.
50                                                 AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


 A2.2.6. Bahrain IAP, Bahrain. All explosive shipments require clearance through
 USDAO, 14 days prior to arrival. Contact ATOC at DSN 318-439-3321, E-mail
 atoc@bahrain.navy.mil to coordinate movement.

 A2.2.7. Christchurch, New Zealand. All explosive Class/Divisions destined for
 consignees in New Zealand can be accepted into Christchurch. Only explosive
 Class/Divisions 1.4, 1.5, & 1.6, can be accepted as through-load explosives on missions
 transiting Christchurch. No explosive Class/Divisions can be transshipped through
 Christchurch due to no Explosive Storage Capability. All clearance requests for terminating
 or through-load explosives must be coordinated a minimum of 14 days prior to arrival.
 Clearance requests for terminating explosives must include, in addition to normal information
 requirements, the Consignee's clear text name and address. POC is AMC Flight Operations at
 commercial 99-011-643-358-1455, FAX 99-011-643-358-1458.

 A2.2.8. Diego Garcia, British Indian Ocean Territory (B.I.O.T). All transiting and
 terminating explosives require a minimum of 72 hours clearance prior to departure from
 APOE. Freeflow of transiting Class/Division 1.4 remaining on aircraft is authorized but
 requires 72 hour courtesy call. For explosive clearance, submit Explosives Clearance
 Worksheet Request (ECWR), and as applicable, approved 618th Air Operations Center
 (AOC) Dips Hazardous Cargo Coordination Spreadsheet. Submit proof of explosives
 clearance confirmation for all explosives shipments transiting Diego Garcia to subsequently
 transit or terminate at Singapore. POC is Det 1, 730 AMS Cape Forecasting (AMC
 Contractor), DSN 315-370-2987, COMM 011-246-370-2987, Fax 315-370-3968. Email:
 730AMS.Det1.ATOC@diego.af.mil. Foreign aircraft with transiting explosives/ordnance
 must contact Naval Support Facility (NSF), Diego Garcia, Base Operations (Base Ops), DSN
 315-370-3322.

 A2.2.9. Dover AFB, DE. All explosive require 48 hours prior to arrival. Free-flow of
 explosives is not authorized. POC for explosive clearance during normal duty hours is the
 436th APS Explosive coordinator at DSN 312-445-2304. For emergency clearance after duty
 hours, weekends, or holidays, contact the aerial port duty officer at DSN 312-445-2300/2301.

 A2.2.10. Eielson AFB, AK. All explosive shipments must be coordinated at least 48 hours
 prior to departure. There is limited in-transit storage at Eielson AFB AK. POC is CATO
 ATGHS       ATOC       DSN       317-377-3257,       Fax     317-377-3095   or   E-mail:
 cato.eielson@eielson.af.mil.

 A2.2.11. Fukuoka IAP, Japan. Fukuoka cannot accept any level of explosives.

 A2.2.12. Gimhae AB, Korea. Gimhae is prohibited from handling any explosives.

 A2.2.13. Guantanamo Bay NAS, Cuba. All Class/Divisions of explosives must be
 cleared at least 72 hours prior to departure from APOE. Temporary storage is on a
 case-by-case basis. Fax requests to: DSN 312-564-5022 or Commercial 011-539-5399/5299.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                51



   A2.2.14. Gunsan AB, Korea. Class/Division 1.3 with 100 lbs. or less NEW and 1.4
   limited to 1 each 463L pallet explosives must be coordinated at least 72 hours prior to
   scheduled departure. All other Class/Divisions and NEW must be coordinated at least 5 days
   prior to scheduled departure. POC is CATO-GUNSAN ATOC at DSN 315-782-4737, e-mail:
   ed.owens@kunsan.af.mil.

   A2.2.15. Incirlik AB, Turkey. All explosives require 72 hours clearance prior to arrival.
   Import and export shipments of explosives require a Turkish Diplomatic Authorization
   number (TDA #). E-mail or fax TDA letter with explosive request will ease clearance process.
   FMS explosives are exempt from the TDA # requirement. POC is Cape Forecasting at DSN
   314-676-8371. After duty hours contact ATOC at DSN 314-676-3783/6811 Fax
   314-676-3134. E-mail: 728AMS.capeforecast@incirlik.af.mil.

   A2.2.16. Joint Base Charleston, SC. All explosives require 48 hours clearance prior to
   arrival. Free-flow of explosives is not authorized. POC for explosive clearance during normal
   duty hours is 437 APS, Capability Forecasting at DSN 312-673-3193/3194, or E-mail
   437APScape@charleston.af.mil. After-duty hours, weekends and holidays contact the aerial
   port duty officer at DSN 312-673-3246.

   A2.2.17.    Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson, AK. All explosives transiting or
   terminating Elmendorf require a minimum of 48 hours advance notice prior to entering the
   Alaskan theater, to include Eielson AFB. Unlimited Free-flow of transiting 1.4 explosives is
   authorized. Free-flow of terminating Class/Division 1.4 up to two 463L pallets is authorized,
   except for Class/Division 1.4 compatibility groups B, G, and F, which require 48 hours
   clearance approval. Primary POC is Elmendorf Cape Forecasting, DSN
   317-552-3569/4297/2548 or FAX 317-552-1919. Alternate POC is Elmendorf ATOC, DSN
   317-552-2104 or email 732ams.cape@us.af.mil.

   A2.2.18. Joint Base Lewis/McChord. Free-flow of Class/Division 1.4C, D, E, and S is
   authorized up to two 463L pallets or 1000 lbs. NEW. All other explosive require coordination
   48 hours prior to arrival. All requests for terminating or through-load explosive clearance
   during normal duty hours must be coordinated through the 62 APS Capability Forecasting
   office at DSN 312-382-0700. For emergency clearance after duty hours, weekends, or
   holidays, contact the aerial port duty officer at DSN 312-382-2611/2613.

   A2.2.19. Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, NJ. All explosives require seven
   workdays clearance prior to arrival. There is no multi-pallet explosive storage capability.
   Prior clearance is required for all FMS shipments terminating the USEUCOM Theater. This
   will be performed by APOE/APOD Ramstein capability forecasters after all other clearance
   requirements are met and confirmed by theater FMS approval authority. FMS shipments will
   be assigned a mission number to complete port-to-port clearance and passed to the
   APOD/theater FMS approval authority prior to cargo being advanced to APOE. POC is
   Capability Forecasting, DSN 312-650-4917/0276 or Commercial: 609-754-4917/0276.

   A2.2.20. Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, HI. All explosives transiting or terminating
   JBPHH must be coordinated at least 48 hours prior to scheduled departure. Explosive aircraft
52                                                   AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


 parking is limited to three spots not to exceed 25,000 lbs. NEW 1.1; 19,800 lbs. NEW 1.2.1; and
 30,000 lbs. NEW 1.3. Unlimited free-flow of transiting 1.4 explosives is authorized. Free-flow of
 terminating 1.4 up to 10,000 lbs. gross weight or four pallets is authorized, except for 1.4
 compatibility groups B, G, and F, which require 48 hours clearance approval. Primary POC is 735
 AMS Cape Forecasting, DSN 315-449-6964 or FAX 315-448-3312. Alternate POC is JBPHH
 ATOC, DSN 315-449-6981/6906. Email 735ams.capeforecasti@hickam.af.mil.

 A2.2.21. Kadena AB, Japan. All transiting and terminating Class Division 1.1-1.4
 require 48 hour coordination. All Class/Division 1.4 explosives transiting on quick turn
 aircraft are considered free-flow and require 24 hour prior to ETA courtesy notification. 733
 AMS is responsible for coordinating explosive shipments into OL-A Clark and OL-B Utapao.
 Cargo destined for these two locations requires a minimum of 45 days advance request
 notification. Duty hours POC between 2200Z-0730Z, is the 733 AMS Airlift Management,
 DSN 315-634-0007, Commercial 011-81-6117-340007, Fax DSN 315-634-1759. The
 after-hours or emergency POC is ATOC at DSN 315-634-3535, Commercial
 011-81-6117-343535. E-mail: 733AMS.cap@us.af.mil.

 A2.2.22. Kuwait City International Airport. Classes 1.1 through 1.3 are prohibited.
 Class 1.4 is authorized but requires advance clearance, both inbound and outbound. For
 clearance requests, contact the 5 EAMS Capability Forecasting office at DSN 318-450-1200
 or Cell Phone 011-965-6778-6459. Email: cav.cape@kcab.afcent.af.mil.

 A2.2.23. Lajes Field, Portugal. Through-load, transship, and terminating explosives
 shipments must be coordinated at least 5 days prior to scheduled departure from APOE.
 Class/Divisions 1.1 (30 lbs. NEW maximum), 1.2 (27,000 lbs. NEW maximum), 1.3
 (unlimited), 1.4 (unlimited) can be accepted as through-load only. Transshipment of
 Class/division 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 (any amount of NEW), and 1.4 (unlimited) can be accommodated
 with prior coordination. For terminating explosives, storage space is limited to (1.3G/100 lbs.
 NEW maximum, and (1.4S / one (1) 463L pallet and two (2) 40"x48" wooden skids
 maximum) respectively. POC is 729 AMS Cape Forecasting, DSN: 314-535-7009/4217,
 Commercial: 011-351-295¬57-7009/4217. Email: 729ams.atoc@lajes.af.mil.

 A2.2.24. MCAS Iwakuni, Japan. Minimum of 48 hours prior notification is required for
 all Class/Division of explosives. Maximum single aircraft load of any Class/Division is
 30,000 lbs. NEW. Contact ATOC or Load Planning at DSN 315-253-5500 (ATOC) or DSN
 315-253-3165 (Load Planning) for clearance. FAX number is DSN 315-253-4294.

 A2.2.25. Misawa AB Japan. All explosives require minimum 24 hours clearance.
 Free-flow of Class/Division 1.4 is not authorized. Contact AMC CATO ATOC at DSN
 315-226-2471, Fax 315-226-2461. E-mail: msjatoc@misawa.af.mil.

 A2.2.26. Naples, Italy. No terminating or transiting Class/Divisions 1.1 thru 1.3
 explosives. Under special circumstances, Class/Division 1.4 may be accepted with prior
 authorization from USDAO Rome. All movement must be coordinated 48 hours prior. POC is
 Naples ATOC, DSN 314-626-5226/5424 or FAX 314-626-5259. Explosive clearance at
 Naples takes minimum one week notice to USDAO Rome for 1.4S movement for ISAF
 rotations. Coordinate with Naples ATOC to reconfirm coordination times.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                      53




   A2.2.27. Osan AB, Korea. All explosives require 72 hours clearance. Free-flow of
   Class/Division 1.4 up to 1000 lbs. is authorized. POC is Capability Forecasting at DSN
   315-784-6593. E-mail: 731ams/cape@osan.af.mil.

   A2.2.28. Paya Lebar Air Base, Singapore. All Explosive Class/Divisions must be
   cleared 14 days prior to scheduled departure from APOE and coordinated through the
   USDAO Singapore office. Due to special customs permits required to import and transit
   weapons or explosives into Singapore, individuals must review the FCG
   (https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil/fcg.cfm) for additional requirements. During normal duty
   hour’s 2300Z-1100Z, Monday through Friday and 2300Z-0500Z Saturdays, POC is
   Capability Forecasting, DSN 315-421-2804/FAX COMM: (+65)6282-9448 or E-mail:
   amcsingapore.sp@andersen.af.mil. After duty hours, weekends, and holidays please
   contact the Aerial Port Duty Officer COMM (+65)9127-0315 or (+65)9862-5262.

   A2.2.29. RAF Mildenhall, United Kingdom. All explosive Class/Divisions must be
   cleared 48 hours prior to scheduled departure from APOE. Any explosives shipped on a
   multi-pallet train should be coordinated at the earliest possible date but at least 48 hours prior.
   Include consignee in request for terminating explosives. During normal duty hours contact
   Capability Forecasting at           DSN       314-238-5519,       FAX       238-2828.     E-mail:
   727ams.troo@mildenhall.af.mil . After duty hours, weekends, and holidays contact the
   aerial port duty officer at DSN 314-238-2272.

   A2.2.30. Ramstein AB, Germany. All Classes/Divisions of explosives require clearance
   72 hours prior to departure from the APOE. Prior clearance is required for all FMS shipments
   terminating Ramstein AB and destined for countries within the USEUCOM Theater. FMS
   shipments will be assigned a mission number to complete port-to-port clearance and passed to
   the APOD/theater FMS approval authority prior to cargo being shipped to the APOE. POC is
   Ramstein Capability Forecasting, DSN 314-479-4418/4419; Fax 314-479-5224. E-mail:
   721.aps.tr-ops@ramstein.af.mil.

   A2.2.31. Rota NAS, Spain. The user will request port-to-port clearance for air shipment
   of explosives and hazardous materials no earlier than 72 hours by e-mail to
   m-ro-navsta-atoc-rota@eu.navy.mil and rotaaodo@navsta.rota.navy.mil. Contact is
   DSN 314-727-2138 or COMM 34 country code 956-82-2138. The user shall provide all
   required hazardous cargo information. In addition to the Port to Port approvals, the Madrid
   ODC Diplomatic Clearances and the Air Operations Duty Officer will not approve any PPR's
   until cargo and hazardous materials have been coordinated through the ATOC. Temporary
   storage will be coordinated on a case by case basis through the Air Operations Duty Officer
   and the Naval Munitions Command. There is no outsize storage capability for T-2, T-3, and
   T-4 pallet trains, only single pallets.

   A2.2.32. Sigonella, Italy. All Class/Divisions of explosives must be cleared at least 12
   days prior to departure from the APOE with prior authorization from USDAO Rome.
  54                                                   AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


   A2.2.33. Spangdahlem AB, Germany. All Classes/Divisions of explosives require
   clearance 72 hours prior to departure from the APOE. Specific local restrictions for parking ramp
   6 (Hot cargo pad): Class/Division 1.1 is limited to 12,000 lbs. NEW, Class 1.2 is limited to
   143,000 lbs. NEW, and Class/Division 1.3 is limited to 100,000 lbs. NEW. Parking ramp 5:
   Class/Division 1.3 is limited to 10,220 lbs. NEW per spot; there is no NEW restriction for
   Class/Division 1.4. Temporary Storage Limits: Class/Division 1.3 is limited to 100 lbs. NEW;
   there is no NEW restriction for Class/Division 1.4. POC is Spangdahlem Cape Forecasting DSN
   314-452-8846, Monday through Friday only. E-mail: 726ams.tro@spangdahlem.af.mil.

   A2.2.34. Tel Aviv, Israel. There are no HAZMAT/Explosive operations conducted at Tel
   Aviv. Any HAZMAT/explosive material will be transported to OVDA Air Base, Southern
   Israel and requires a minimum of 14 working days’ notice for prior coordination with United
   States Embassy (TLV Aircraft Clearance Office: Commercial number is 011
   972-3-519-7331). All munitions must have clearance prior to movement and arrival to
   OVDA Airbase. N.E.W restrictions will be identified/determined at the time clearance is
   requested by the Israeli Aviation Authority (IAA) and the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF).
   Consignee requires 14 working days prior to arrival at airport in order to arrange in-country
   movement to final destination. There is no transit explosive storage or overnight parking for
   aircraft at this location. POC is AMC Contractor: Commercial telephone: From CONUS:
   011-972-3-973-2916, From Europe: 00-972-3-973-2916.

   A2.2.35. Travis AFB, CA. All Class/Division 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, and 1.4 with compatibility
   groups of A, B, F, H, J, K, L, and N or any explosives that exceeds the usable dimensions of a
   single pallet, including multi-pallet trains require clearance. Free-flow is authorized with a 24
   hour courtesy e-mail or phone call for 1.4 with compatibility groups of C, D, E, G, and S with
   a total NEW per aircraft of 1,000 pounds or less, and the shipment does not exceed two (2)
   463L pallets. Three to five pallet positions requires a 72 hour courtesy call. Shipments
   exceeding five pallet positions require clearance. POC is 60 APS Cape Forecasting, DSN
   312-837-4545/4544 Fax 312-837-4555. Commercial: 707-424-4545/4544. E-mail:
   60apscapeforecast@amc.af.mil after duty hours POC is 60 APS duty officer at DSN
   312-837-4551/4552 or Commercial 707-424-4551/4552.

   A2.2.36. Yokota AB, Japan. All transiting and terminating Class/Division 1.1 thru 1.4
   require 72 hours prior notification. Explosives exceeding an IBD of (12) require 60 days
   advance notice and 30 days advance clearance. All clearance requests are based on parking
   capability and onward movement of explosives. POC is 730 AMS Capability Forecasting,
   DSN 315-225-7163. Commercial: 011-81-3117-55-7163. Fax 315-225-8472. E-mail:
   730ams.capes@yokota.af.mil.

A2.3. Submit any changes to the explosives clearance requirements to HQ AMC/A4TC,
amc.a4tcp@us.af.mil.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                       55




                                           Attachment 3

           ATOC MISSION FOLDERS AND MISSION LOAD REPORT (MLR)

A3.1. AMC Form 77, Ground Handling Record. The AMC Form 77 is a step-by-step record
of events for all data entered and will populate all appropriate fields when entered into GATES.
Information control will prepare an AMC Form 77 for each mission handled and ensure all
information on the form is accurate. If there are no port requirements, an AMC Form 77 will not be
utilized. An AMC Form 77 will not be prepared for ramp coordinators meeting aircraft with
negative requirements. The inbound folder will have most information filled in from the inbound
MLR from the previous station. The outbound folder will self-populate as information is input by
other terminal work centers. Upon completion, verify information is correct and ready for
signatures (manual or digital). Pen and ink changes are authorized.

A3.2. Accuracy. Information controllers will ensure all information on the form is accurate and
properly completed. A considerable amount of the information contained on the form is furnished
by other terminal work centers; therefore, it is the responsibility of these work centers to ensure the
information provided is accurate, timely, and complete.

   A3.2.1. Record all times in Greenwich Mean Time (GMT).

   A3.2.2. If block is not used, leave blank.

   A3.2.3. SOE start and complete times will reflect the times that work on an aircraft actually
   started and finished. In all instances, the time recorded will reflect the time the first task is
   started and the last task was completed.

   A3.2.4. If a section completes all tasks and at a later time it is necessary for the same section
   to return to the aircraft, the subsequent handling should be recorded in the remarks section.

A3.3. Quality Control. Once the form is completed, the senior controller must review it for
accuracy and contents. Both signature blocks can be signed by the same person should the person
who completed the form also be the senior controller. After signing, the senior controller sends the
folder to the Data Records section at a time determined by local management. NOTE: Once an
AMC Form 77 is completed for a mission and that mission cancels or diverts back, annotate the
form with the reason the mission did not operate or was diverted. If a section completes all tasks
and at a later time and it is necessary for the same section to return to the aircraft, the subsequent
handling should be recorded in the AMC Form 77 remarks section, finalized and sent to the
Records, Reports, and Analysis section for inclusion on the AMC Form 85, Aircraft Handled by
Type (refer to AMCI 24-101, Volume 6 for instructions).

A3.4. AMC Form 77 Completion Instructions. GATES automatically populates the AMC
Form 77 with information populated by port work centers (SOE completion, basic load
information, etc.) However, not all blocks are auto-populated, and information controllers must
  56                                                    AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


be aware of form completion requirements. Information in the folder is vital to qualifying and
quantifying movement data in the DTS. Complete or ensure completion of the GATES AMC
Form 77 as follows:

A3.5. Inbound: This information is used as a management tool for planning cargo/mail and
passenger off-load. Pass inbound mission information to all work centers as soon as it is available.

    A3.5.1. Block 1: MISSION NUMBER/DATE: Enter mission number and date. Example:
    PBP080700160 / 12 Oct 2011.

    A3.5.2. Block 2a: MDS: Enter numbers of design designation and alpha characters.
    Example: C5B.

    A3.5.3. Block 2b: TAIL #: Enter last five alphanumeric characters of the serial number. Use
    leading zeros as necessary. Example: 60141, 015ST.

    A3.5.4. Block 3. OPERATOR: Enter the two or three characters of the operator of the
    aircraft. Example: Operator is 62 AW, or 436 AW. For commercial contract flights, enter
    the three-letter carrier code. Example: Federal Express, enter FDX; for World Airways, enter
    WOA.

    A3.5.5. Block 4: FROM: Enter the three-letter air terminal identifier code for the station of
    last departure. Example: SUU, OSN, EDF.

    A3.5.6. Block 5: ETA: Enter estimated date and time of arrival. Example: 06 Oct
    2011/2056.

    A3.5.7. Block 6a: ATA: Enter actual date and time for aircraft arrival. Example: 06 Oct
    2011/2108.

    A3.5.8. Block 6b: ATB: Enter actual date and time for aircraft block. Example: 06 Oct
    2011/2116.

    A3.5.9. Block 7: SPOT: Enter the aircraft parking spot. Example: F3, 7, G1W.

    A3.5.10. Block 8: GROUND TIME: Enter the scheduled ground time. If it is a terminating
    mission, enter "TERM". Example: 003+15, TERM.

    A3.5.11. Block 9: PASSENGER DATA OFFLOAD: Breakdown as follows:

             A3.5.11.1. Block 9a: SPACE REQUIRED: Enter total space required off this
             station.

             A3.5.11.2. Block 9b: SPACE AVAILABLE: Enter total space available off this
             station.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 57



         A3.5.11.3. Block 9c: TOTAL: Enter total number of passengers off this station.

         A3.5.11.4. Block 9d: FOREIGN NATIONALS: Enter total foreign nationals off
         this station (non-US citizens, to include foreign national dependents of US citizens).

         A3.5.11.5. Block 9e: CIVILIANS: Enter total number of civilians off this station.

         A3.5.11.6. Block 9f. DISTINGUISHED VISITORS. Enter total number of
         distinguished visitors off this station.

         A3.5.11.7. Block 9g: PATIENTS: Enter total number of patients off this station
         (this number may be obtained from manifest or local aeromedical representative).
         NOTE: FN, CIV. DV, and patient numbers are for informational purposes so
         service can be provided by-appropriate agencies. Therefore, an individual may be
         reflected more than once depending on the different categories that apply. Example:
         an individual may be a civilian and a DV; therefore, the individual is reflected as both
         a CIV and DV.

   A3.5.12. Block 10: PASSENGER DATA THRU: Breakdown as follows:

         A3.5.12.1. Block 10a: SPACE REQUIRED: Enter total space required through
         load this station.

         A3.5.12.2. Block 10b: SPACE AVAILABLE: Enter total space available through
         load this station.

         A3.5.12.3. Block 10c: TOTAL: Enter total number of passengers through load this
         station.

         A3.5.12.4. Block 10d: FOREIGN NATIONALS: Enter total foreign nationals
         through load this station (non-US citizens, to include foreign national dependents of
         US citizens).

         A3.5.12.5. Block 10e: CIVILIANS: Enter total number of civilians through load
         this station.

         A3.5.12.6. Block 10f: DISTINGUISHED VISITORS. Enter total number of
         distinguished visitors through load this station.

         A3.5.12.7. Block 10g: PATIENTS: Enter total number of patients through load this
         station (this number may be obtained from manifest or local aeromedical
         representative). NOTE: FN, CIV, DV. and patient numbers are for informational
         purposes so service can be provided by appropriate agencies. Therefore, an
         individual may be reflected in more than one category. Example: an individual may
         be a civilian and a DV; therefore, the individual is reflected as both a CIV and DV.
58                                                   AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013



     A3.5.13. Block 11: CARGO / MAIL DATA OFFLOAD: Breakdown as follows:

         A3.5.13.1. Block 11a: CARGO WEIGHT: Enter gross weight to be offloaded at
         this station.

         A3.5.13.2. Block 11b: MAIL WEIGHT: Enter gross weight to be offloaded at this
         station. NOTE: Currently, the GATES generated AMC Form 77 displays net
         weight for Blocks 11a and 11b. ATOC must line-out auto-populated net weight
         amounts for these blocks and insert the gross weight. ATOC must also line-out the
         word “Net” for Blocks 11a and 11b. The next version of GATES will correct this
         issue.

         A3.5.13.3. Block 11c: CARGO CONFIGURATION: Enter rolling stock, floor
         loaded, married pallets, number of single pallets, etc. to be offloaded at this station.
         Example: 6$, 1 T-2, 1 T-4, 7 RSS, 18 PCS LSS Reg Mail.

         A3.5.13.4. Block 11d: TOTAL NEW: Enter total net explosive weight offloaded at
         this station. NOTE: Enter in the remarks section; the Class/Division, NEW in
         metric measurements, and other vital information on explosives. Example: 1.1F, 59
         kgs, loose loaded in pallet position 7.

     A3.5.14. Block 12: CARGO / MAIL DATA THRU: Breakdown as follows:

         A3.5.14.1. Block 12a: CARGO GROSS WEIGHT: Enter gross weight through
         load this station.

         A3.5.14.2. Block 12b: MAIL GROSS WEIGHT: Enter gross weight through load
         this station. NOTE: Currently, the GATES generated AMC Form 77 displays net
         weight for Blocks 11a and 11b. ATOC must line-out auto-populated net weight
         amounts for these blocks and insert the gross weight. ATOC must also line-out the
         word “Net” for Blocks 11a and 11b. The next version of GATES will correct this
         issue.

         A3.5.14.3. Block 12c: PALLET POSITIONS: Enter total pallet positions occupied
         and break down of cargo (i.e. rolling stock, floor loaded, married pallets, number of
         single pallets, etc.) through load this station. Example: 5 PP’s/1$, 2RSS, 8 PCS LSS.

         A3.5.14.4. Block 12d: TOTAL NEW: Enter total NEW through load this station.
         NOTE: Enter in the remarks section; the Class/Division, NEW in metric
         measurements, and other vital information on explosives. Example: 1.1F, 59 kgs,
         loose loaded in pallet position 7.

     A3.5.15. Block 13: SPECIAL HANDLING / HUMAN REMAINS: Enter any additional
     special handling/HR information if necessary.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                    59



     A3.5.16. Block 14: INBOUND COORDINATION: Enter in the ETA, revised ETA (1)
     (2), and ATA/ATB columns with the initials of the individual receiving the information for
     each applicable section. At the bottom of each column, ATOC representatives passing the
     information will enter their initials and the time all sections were notified. Enter in the off
     load columns the start and completion times received and the initials of the individual
     passing the times from each applicable section. At the top of the column, enter the earliest
     of all start times and the latest of all completion times in the appropriate block and pass to
     the Command and Control Center (CCC). Enter the initials of the individual in CCC
     receiving these times in the initials block.

     A3.5.17. Block 15: COMPLETED BY:

             A3.5.17.1. Block 15a: PRINTED NAME: Print rank and name of ATOC
             individual that completed folder.

             A3.5.17.2. Block 15b: SIGNATURE: Signature of ATOC individual that
             completed folder. NOTE: If mission terminates and outbound portion of AMC
             Form77 is not utilized, the information controller will annotate folder contents in
             the inbound remarks section. The Senior Controller will QC the folder and
             print/sign blocks 15A and 15B (next to or below ATOC individual that completed
             folder).

     A3.5.18. REMARKS (Page 2): Enter any inbound information vital to the operation of
     the missions. This should include, but is not limited to, special handling information, AMC
     MICAP/VVIP shipments, NWRM shipments, times, problems, personnel contacted,
     phone calls, space blocks, equipment failures, aborts, etc. Information entered will begin
     with Julian date and GMT, and end with the initials of the individual that logged the
     remark. Examples: 186/2137Z Loadmaster was sick upon arrival, requested transportation
     to the hospital…WJB or 223/0565Z AMC MICAP downloaded and transported to
     outbound aircraft by ATOC 4…KJA or 196/1255Z NWRM remained on aircraft with
     courier RDW. Reference inbound MLR for source information.
  60                                                     AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


Figure A3.1. Inbound GATES AMC Form 77.




A3.6. Outbound: This information is used as a management tool for planning cargo/mail and
passenger up-load. Pass outbound mission information to all work centers as soon as it is
available. When properly completed, entries in this section provide the various work centers with
the information needed to complete the mission. Additionally, they provide a record of events that
took place in handling the outbound mission.

       A3.6.1. Block 1: MISSION NUMBER: Enter mission number. Example: LQR72F30A283.

       A3.6.2. Block 2a: Aircraft Type/Number (MDS): Enter numbers of design designation and
       alpha characters. Example: DC8F, C5B.

       A3.6.3. Block 2b: TAIL #: Enter last five alphanumeric characters of the serial number.
       Use leading zeros as necessary. Example: 60141, 015ST.

       A3.6.4. Block 3: OPER: Enter the two or three characters of the operator of the aircraft.
       Example: Operator is 62 AW or 436 AW. For commercial contract flights, enter the
       three-letter carrier code. Example: Federal Express, enter FDX; for World Airways, enter
       WOA.

       A3.6.5. Block 4: MISSION ROUTING: Enter the three-letter air terminal identifier code
       for each station of the mission routing. Indicate any routing change in the remarks. Example:
       SUU HIK OKO DNA OSN.

       A3.6.6. Block 5: ETD: Enter estimated date and time of departure. Example: 08 Oct 2011
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  61



   2220.

   A3.6.7. Block 6: ATB: Enter actual date and time the aircraft blocks out. Example: 08 Oct
   2011 2206.

   A3.6.8. Block 7: ATD: Enter actual date and time the aircraft is airborne (obtain from
   CCC). Example: 08 Oct 2011 2224.

   A3.6.9. Block 8: SPOT: Enter the aircraft parking spot. Example: F3, 7, G1W.

   A3.6.10. Block 9: DATE: Enter actual date and time of operation. Example: 08 Oct 2011
   2224.

   A3.6.11. Block 10: ETIC/IC: Enter time aircraft is estimated to be in commission utilizing
   blocks 1, 2, and 3 if necessary. Also, enter time aircraft comes in commission using IC block.
   "Trouble Shooting" as an ETIC is an appropriate entry if ATOC information controllers
   cannot obtain a more specific aircraft maintenance from the command post/maintenance
   complex. Update trouble shooting ETICs often to insure functional areas have current
   aircraft status routinely.

   A3.6.12. Block 11: CONFIG: Enter the aircraft configuration for AMC aircraft. If the
   aircraft configuration has been modified, enter the number of pallet positions and seats
   available. Enter the number of seats and pallet positions for Category B missions.

   A3.6.13. Block 12: OPERATING WEIGHT: Enter aircraft operating weight.

   A3.6.14.    Block 13: OPERATING MOMENT/INDEX: Enter the aircraft operating
   moment.

   A3.6.15. Block 14: RAMP FUEL WEIGHT: Enter the ramp fuel load weight.

   A3.6.16. Block 15: ALLOWABLE CABIN LOAD (ACL): Enter ACL. ACL is the
   maximum payload (cargo, mail, passengers, patients, and baggage) that can be safely
   transported by a specific aircraft over a specific route.

   A3.6.17. Block 16: CRITICAL LEG ACL: Enter critical leg ACL when available (from
   618 AOC Flight Manager, downline stations, etc..). Critical leg ACL is defined as the
   maximum payload (cargo, mail, passengers, patients, and baggage) which may be carried
   over the most restrictive segment of a mission. The critical leg is normally the longest flying
   time and will usually be the most restrictive.

   A3.6.18. Block 17:AIRCRAFT RAMP WEIGHT: Enter actual aircraft ramp weight.
   Obtain this figure by adding aircraft operating weight, ramp fuel weight, and total gross
   weight of manifested load.
62                                                    AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


     A3.6.19. Block 18: LOADMASTER DATA:

          A3.6.19.1. Block 18a: SCHEDULE SHOW: Enter loadmaster scheduled show
          time as established by CCC. Enter the initials of the individual in CCC passing the
          scheduled show time and the initials of the person in ATOC who receives the
          scheduled show time in the appropriate block.

          A3.6.19.2. Block 18b: TIME AVAILABLE: Enter the time the loadmaster is
          available for duty.

          A3.6.19.3. Block 18c: MISSION BRIEFING: Enter time loadmaster was briefed
          and the initials of the person in ATOC that briefed the loadmaster in the appropriate
          blocks.

          A3.6.19.4. Block 18d: LOADMASTER’S NAME/GRADE: Enter the loadmasters
          name and grade. For Example: Bryant, E-7.

     A3.6.20. Block 19: PASSENGER CLOSEOUT/ANTIHIJACKING:

          A3.6.20.1. Block 19a: # PAX: Enter the total number of passengers the flight is
          closed out with.

          A3.6.20.2. Block 19b: CLOSEOUT BY: Enter the day/time all passengers are
          processed and the manifest is closed out, and the initials of the individual passing the
          closeout.

          A3.6.20.3. Block 19c: ANTIHIJACKING BY: Enter the time antihijack actions are
          complete and initials of the individual passing the information.

     A3.6.21. Block 20: TIME CARGO/MAIL MANIFEST RECEIVED:

          A3.6.21.1.   Block 20a: PRE: Enter the time the preload manifest is received.
          (Optional)

          A3.6.21.2. Block 20b: FINAL: Enter the time the final manifests are received.

     A3.6.22. Block 21: AIRCRAFT AVAILABLE FOR LOADING:

          A3.6.22.1. Block 21a: Enter day/time aircraft is released to the air terminal for
          loading

          A3.6.22.2. Block 21b: Enter initials of CCC representative passing the information

          A3.6.22.3. Block 21c: Enter initials of ATOC person receiving the information in
          the appropriate blocks.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 63



   A3.6.23. Block 22: NOTIFICATION OF ACL/SEATS:

          A3.6.23.1. Block 22a: ACL/SEATS: Enter in line 1 the computed ACL and
          SEATS. Example: 40,000 AND 8. (40,000 pounds ACL and eight seats available).
          Complete lines 2, 3, and 4 in the same manner for revised ACLs if needed.

          A3.6.23.2. Blocks 22 b-f: Enter the initials of individuals receiving the computed
          ACL/SEATS at PAX, PSC, LOAD PLAN, FLEET SRVCS as well as day and time
          information that is passed in the appropriate blocks. Complete lines 2, 3, and 4 in the
          same manner for revised ACLs if needed.

          A3.6.23.3. Block 22g: Enter in the ATOC column the initials of the ATOC
          individual passing the information. Complete lines 2, 3, and 4 in the same manner for
          revised ACLs if needed.

   A3.6.24. Block 23: MANIFESTED LOAD DATA:

          A3.6.24.1. Block 23a: Enter number of THRU, ON and TOTAL.

                    A3.6.24.1.1. Block 23b: TOTAL PAX: Enter number of passengers.

                    A3.6.24.1.2. Block 23c: PAX WEIGHT: Enter passenger weight.

                    A3.6.24.1.3. Block 23d: BAGGAGE WEIGHT: Enter net baggage
                    weight (do not include weight of baggage pallet/bin).

                    A3.6.24.1.4. Block 23e: CARGO WEIGHT: Enter net cargo weight.

                    A3.6.24.1.5. Block 23f: MAIL WEIGHT: Enter net mail weight.

                    A3.6.24.1.6. Block 23g: PALLETS: Enter number of pallets and tare
                    weight (subtract the net weight from the gross weight to obtain tare
                    weight; also include baggage pallets/bins)

                    A3.6.24.1.7. Block 23h: TOTAL GROSS: Enter total weight of PAX
                    WEIGHT, BAGGAGE WEIGHT, CARGO WEIGHT, MAIL WEIGHT
                    and TARE WEIGHT. NOTE: Adjust payload in GATES for tare
                    weights not already included.

   A3.6.25. Block 24: MISSION ABORT: Enter ETA, ATA, ATB, SPOT, TIME, CCC, and
   OTHER ABORT DATA on air or ground abort information, as appropriate. Use Remarks
   section, if needed.

   A3.6.26. Block 25 a-g: OUTBOUND COORDINATION: Enter in the ETD, revised ETD,
   ATD, and ETIC/ IC columns the initials of the individual receiving the information at each
64                                                      AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


     internal and/or external work-center. At the bottom of each column, the ATOC
     representative passing the information will enter their initials and time all work-centers were
     notified. Enter in the ONLOAD DATA column, the START and COMPLETION times and
     the INITIALS of the individual passing the information to ATOC from each applicable
     work-center. At the top of the column enter the earliest of all start times and latest of all
     completion times in the appropriate blocks and pass to CCC. Enter the initials of the
     individual in CCC receiving these times in the INIT block. In the PAX CALL column,
     enter the time the passengers are to be at the aircraft ready to load and the initials of the
     individual in passenger service who receives the information. At the bottom of the column,
     enter the time the passenger load call was passed and the initials of the individual in ATOC
     passing the information.

     A3.6.27. Block 26: FOLDER CONTENT: Mark each item when the corresponding
     document is placed in the mission folder. Leave blank those items that do not apply to the
     applicable mission. Additional contents not listed will be documented in block 26 (use
     remarks section if needed). The MLR is not required to be contained in the AMC Form 77.
     NOTE: Information control will ensure all station file documentation is included in the
     AMC Form 77 prior to forwarding to Data Records.

     A3.6.28. Block 27: TELECON COORDINATION: Enter receivers and passer's initials, as
     well as time passed, in the appropriate blocks when the aircraft load message is passed by
     telephone for flights three hours or less.

     A3.6.29. Block 28: COMPLETED BY:

             A3.6.29.1. Block 28a: PRINTED NAME: Print rank and name of ATOC
             individual that completed folder.

             A3.6.29.2. Block 28b: SIGNATURE: Self-Explanatory.

     A3.6.30. Block 29: SHIFT SUPERVISOR:

             A3.6.30.1. Block 29a: PRINTED NAME: Print rank and name of ATOC senior
             controller.

             A3.6.30.2. Block 29b: SIGNATURE: The senior controller will sign indicating
             the folder has been reviewed, all required documents are present and the history is
             accurate and complete. Exceptions will be noted.

     A3.6.31. REMARKS (page 2): Enter any outbound information vital to the operation of
     the missions. This should include, but is not limited to, special handling information, AMC
     MICAP/VVIP shipments, NWRM shipments, times, problems, personnel contacted, phone
     calls, space blocks, equipment failures, aborts, etc. Information entered will begin with
     Julian date and time; end with the initials of the individual that logged the remark. Examples:
     186/2137Z Loadmaster became sick, requested transportation to the hospital…WJB or
     223/0565Z AMC MICAP arrived at aircraft services, processing into GATES…KJA or
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                   65



     196/1255Z NWRM was loose loaded by ATOC 4 in pallet position one…RDW.

Figure A3.2. Outbound GATES AMC Form 77




A3.7. AMC Form 68, Aerial Port Movement Log. This form is designed to provide a
step-by-step record of events for special missions. It is only necessary to enter mission pertinent
data as entries will auto-populate as information is entered into GATES. An AMC Form 68 may
be prepared, in lieu of AMC Form 77, for the following missions:
     A3.7.1. AMC exercise or contingency.

     A3.7.2. JA/ATT missions.

     A3.7.3. Expeditionary operational readiness inspection (EORI).

     A3.7.4. Operational plans (OPLANS).

     A3.7.5. SAAM missions.
  66                                                    AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


       A3.7.6. Local training missions. NOTE: When channel and opportune traffic, to include
       space available passengers, is transported on any of the above missions, prepare AMC Form
       77 in lieu of annotating the mission on the AMC Form 68.

A3.8. Manual AMC Form 68. Non-GATES stations or operations that require a hard copy
AMC Form 68 are only required to enter mission specific data; all other fields will be left blank.
Folders will be closed at 2400 GMT each day and the senior controller will review it for accuracy
and sign it and send the folder and contents to the Data Records section. In the event a mission
operates for a period of more than 1 day, transfer information to a new AMC Form 68. Units with
minimum workloads will use previous day AMC Form 68 until a complete day's mission can no
longer be recorded. For documentation requirements during deployment see AMCI 24-101, Vol.
18, Military Airlift—AMC Mobilized Aerial Port Forces and Aerial Delivery Flights. NOTE:
When channel and opportune traffic, including space available passengers, are transported on any
of the above missions, prepare AMC Form 77 in lieu of the AMC Form 68.

A3.9. Mission Load Report (MLR). ATOCs at en route and destination stations must receive
advance information concerning cargo, passengers, and mail aboard arriving aircraft. This
information is provided within the MLR. Information control will send the MLR (to include
NWRM info, i.e. TCN, APOD, weight, cube and position on aircraft) as soon as the load is firm,
but no later than 30 minutes after the actual departure time (ATD). If the MLR is sent more than
once, annotate the first sent time in the remarks section of the AMC Form 77/AMC Form 68. Once
the MLR is sent, down line stations can retrieve all required information. Information will be
provided to 618 AOC/APCC upon request. Additionally, MLRs will include special cargo (i.e.,
NWRM, re-icing, refrigeration) and passenger DV information. MLRs will be unclassified, unless
specifically designated otherwise by AMC headquarters. The MLR is not required to be contained
in the AMC Form 77/AMC Form 68. NOTE: GATES MLR’s are only sent to the next
down-line station. When stations receiving MLR’s have no additional requirements on the
outbound, the MLR is still required to be sent to the next down-line station. For non-GATES
stations, email or fax MLR.

       A3.9.1. When a mission originates at a non-GATES station, pertinent outbound
       information usually listed in the MLR will be passed by information control via fax, e-mail
       or phone to the next down-line station NLT 30 minutes after ATD. If a mission transits a
       non-GATES station, the MLR will be faxed and/or emailed to that station NLT 30 minutes
       after ATD. When information is faxed or emailed, confirm receipt. If unable to contact next
       station, annotate in AMC Form 77/AMC Form 68 remarks.

       A3.9.2. Prepare a MLR on departures of all AMC missions, including:

              A3.9.2.1. ANG/USAFR-operated missions.

              A3.9.2.2. Commercial contract (category B) aircraft.

              A3.9.2.3. Other service or command aircraft carrying opportune cargo/passengers.

              A3.9.2.4. AMC exercise or contingency operations.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                   67




           A3.9.2.5. AMC Special Air Mission (SAM).

           A3.9.2.6. Special Assignment Airlift Missions (SAAM).

 A3.9.3. GATES MLR Format and Accuracy. The MLR is the primary means by which AMC
 aerial ports communicate mission related cargo (e.g. payload, load breakdown, special interest
 cargo, NWRM, hazardous cargo) and passenger information between ports. It's imperative that
 the information not only be in the correct format, but be accurate. The MLR will be reviewed by
 the senior controller prior to sending. All data entry errors/omissions will be corrected prior to
 sending. An example of the MLR is below, Figure A3.3.
 68                                AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


Figure A3.3. Sample MLR




                          Figure
                          A3.1.
                          Sampl
                          e
                          MLR.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013   69
70   AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013   71
  72                                                    AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


                                          Attachment 4

                    PASSENGER DEVIATION WAIVER PROCEDURES

A4.1. Passenger Safety. Passenger safety must be the prime concern. AMC policy is to move
passengers and any hazardous materials on separate aircraft whenever possible. This means that
unless mission requirements dictate otherwise, passengers and hazardous materials must not be
moved together whenever airlift capability affords separation as an option. Deviations will not be
used as authority to place hazardous materials restricted by 49 CFR, 172.101 on AMC contracted
passenger aircraft (to include “Combi” aircraft).

A4.2. Deviation Guidelines. Passenger travel other than mission essential, may not
accompany cargo moved IAW a compatibility or packaging waiver unless waivered by an issuing
authority (e.g. ATOC, loadplanning, 618 AOC/APCC, etc.). When a Department of
Transportation (DOT) exemption, Special Permit or Competent Authority Approval (CAA)
identifies material as cargo aircraft only, a passenger deviation may be issued if the Proper
Shipping Name (PSN) is P3 or P4-coded in AFMAN 24-204_IP, Preparing Hazardous Materials
for Military Air Shipments. If P5-coded and a DOT exemption, Special Permit or CAA identifies
material as cargo aircraft only, follow procedures for issuing a "P4" deviation.

       A4.2.1. Deviation approval officials will exercise judgment in issuing deviations given the
       projected airlift flow through their stations. In all cases, cargo will be moved IAW
       established movement standards. Passengers will not displace cargo unless approved by the
       618 AOC/APCC. Deviations must only be considered in those situations when cargo and
       passenger movement on separate aircraft cannot be accommodated due to excessive
       separation (as a minimum-24 hours) in scheduled airlift through a station.

       A4.2.2. Deviation issuing officials will consider availability of alternate movement.
       Whenever possible, passengers should be carried on:

              A4.2.2.1. Aircraft configured to accommodate passengers.

              A4.2.2.2. Cargo aircraft without hazardous materials on board.

              A4.2.2.3. Aircraft carrying only P5-coded hazardous materials.

A4.3. Exempt Personnel. Passenger deviation approvals are not required for.

       A4.3.1. Guards

       A4.3.2. Couriers

       A4.3.3. Technical Escorts (i.e. MWD Handlers)

       A4.3.4. Maintenance Repair Team (MRT) members
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                               73



    A4.3.5. Additional Crew Members (ACM)

    A4.3.6. AMC Mission Observer (AMO)

    A4.3.7. Mission Essential Personnel (MEP)

    A4.3.8. Duty passengers traveling with P-4 coded cargo.

    A4.3.9. SAAM validated passengers

    A4.3.10. Participants in tactical/contingency/emergency operations (AFMAN 24-204_IP,
    Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military Air Shipments, Chapter 3) and deployments
    conducted IAW DTR 4500.9R, Part III, Mobility.

    A4.3.11. Non-participant travel. Passengers (non-participants) on tactical, contingency, or
    emergency validated missions, deployments and SAAMs are authorized only if:

           A4.3.11.1. Individual issue hazardous materials hand-carried by "Participants" are
           limited to small arms-type ammunition (C/D 1.4S or 1.4C), NBC equipment, or
           chemical/first aid kits.

           A4.3.11.2. All other hazardous materials hand-carried are in proper shipping
           configuration or packaging which would allow movement on a channel mission.

           A4.3.11.3. Fuel in transported vehicles does not exceed one-half tank.

           A4.3.11.4. Transport support equipment is drained.

           A4.3.11.5. All hazardous materials are compatible IAW AFMAN 24-204_IP,
           Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military Air Shipments, Tables A18.1 and
           A18.2.

           A4.3.11.6. Hazardous materials are not coded as P-1, P-2, or P-3 in AFMAN
           24-204_IP, Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military Air Shipments, Table A.1
           (Special Provisions).

           A4.3.11.7. A passenger deviation is approved if required. NOTE: Deviation
           exempt personnel must have protective equipment equal to or greater than what is
           used by the aircrew when traveling on aircraft carrying P-1 or P-2 hazardous
           materials.

A4.4. Responsibilities Assigned. HQ AMC/A4TC retains overall responsibility of the AMC
passenger deviation program.
  74                                                      AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


       A4.4.1. 618 AOC/APCC issues passenger deviations to allow movement of passengers
       with P3-coded cargo IAW AFMAN 24-204_IP, Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military
       Air Shipments. 618 AOC/APCC will also issue deviations for movement of passengers with
       P4-coded cargo on AMC missions as needed. NOTE: Only the operating MAJCOM’s
       AOC has the approval authority for P3-coded cargo.

       A4.4.2. AMC APS and AMS will issue passenger deviations for P4-coded cargo as
       specified in this supplement. Each APS and AMS will develop procedures for requesting,
       issuing, and reporting passenger deviations.

       A4.4.3. The appropriate Air Mobility Operations Wing (AMOW) will designate the AMS
       or air terminal (within their respective area of responsibility) that is responsible for issuing
       passenger deviations for detachments, operating locations, contract air terminals, and small
       terminals. Navy- operated AMC Air Terminal Norfolk will issue "P4" deviations for
       Caribbean-region Navy terminals. CONUS Navy terminals (i.e., Navy-operated AMC Air
       Terminal Jacksonville) will request passenger deviations from 618 AOC/APCC. Central and
       South America locations will request deviations from 618 AOC/APCC.

       A4.4.4. Aerial ports/air terminals must ensure passengers are eligible to travel with
       hazardous materials IAW this supplement prior to releasing seats on non-AMC controlled
       aircraft. The 618 AOC/APCC or aerial ports/terminals will not issue deviations for
       non-AMC missions. Requests for passenger deviations on non-AMC missions will be
       directed through 618 AOC/APCC to appropriate MAJCOM/Service authority.

       A4.4.5. Deployed aerial ports deviation responsibility rests with the senior transportation
       representative. Units will retain deviation data at home station and report it when requested
       by HQ AMC.

       A4.4.6. Aerial Port/Terminal Deviation Approval Officials' Qualifications. Passenger
       deviation approval officials will be:

              A4.4.6.1. Designated in writing by the section chief or flight commander. NOTE:
              Responsibility may be delegated to qualified personnel in load planning as
              designated by their cargo operations section chief or flight commander.

              A4.4.6.2. E-4 or above, or civilian equivalent.

              A4.4.6.3. 5-skill level.

              A4.4.6.4. Hazardous material "Inspector/Preparer" qualified.

A4.5. Other Considerations. Deviation approval official will also consider when approving or
disapproving deviations if:

        A4.5.1. Aircraft is equipped with Emergency Passenger Oxygen System (EPOS).
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                   75



      A4.5.2. Quantity per package (cargo aircraft only column) is equal to or less than
      authorized for passenger movement specified in 49 CFR, 172.101, Hazardous Materials
      Table. IATA, Dangerous Goods Regulations or ICAO technical instructions may be used
      in place of 49 CFR.

A4.6. Documentation. Passenger deviations will be documented using AMC Form 145,
Passenger Deviation Request. For requests requiring 618 AOC/APCC approvals call Commercial
618-229-0350         or     DSN       779-0350       and    electronically transmit form to
TACC.APCC.TACC.APCC@us.af.mil at least 4 hours prior to mission departure. List only
passenger prohibited items ("P-3" or "P-4") on AMC Form 145. NOTE: Substitute "APCC" with
three letter identifier of aerial port/terminal issuing deviation.

     A4.6.1. Format. Issuing station/calendar year/Julian date/sequence number. Example:
     RMS0713601, HIK0714502, APCC 0714106.

     A4.6.2. Codes. Stations designated as issuing agencies for other locations will substitute
     that location's identifier in the deviation number. (Example: Ramstein issuing a deviation for
     Cairo would use: CAI0701601.) NOTE: For hazardous cargo requiring passenger
     deviation numbers, ensure the deviation number is granted through en route stations to final
     destination in the mission routing for the hazardous cargo. Example; Mission originates at
     Dover, with a transit stop at Ramstein, and final destination Tel Aviv, passenger deviation
     will read as DOV0731001, to TLV.

A4.7. Operational Guidelines.
     A4.7.1. Deviations remain in force until the hazardous material is removed from the
     mission.

     A4.7.2. En route stations may move additional cargo or passengers with like characteristics
     to the same destination under a deviation issued by a previous station as long as passenger
     deviation restrictions are not violated.

     A4.7.3. En route stations will use guidelines of this paragraph prior to placing passengers
     on aircraft already operating under a deviation or before adding P3 or P4-coded cargo to an
     aircraft already carrying passengers.

     A4.7.4. The ATOC will ensure the originating and transit passenger deviation number(s)
     are clearly annotated on the load plan and MLR. ATOC will supply the passenger deviation
     number to passenger service for inclusion on passenger manifest.

     A4.7.5. In all cases, the most restrictive deviation takes precedence. 618 AOC/APCC
     issued deviations take precedence over any issued by an APS/AMS.
  76                                                    AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


                                          Attachment 5

                        DIPLOMATIC CLEARANCE PROCEDURES

A5.1. General. Foreign countries have placed various restrictions and limitations on the
movement of aircraft and in some cases, cargo across their borders. These countries have further
prescribed specific procedures to acquire permission (diplomatic clearance) for aircraft and cargo
movement over their borders. Use DOD 4500.54E, Department of Defense (DOD) Foreign
Clearance Guide, as well as the classified volume, to determine which restrictions apply for the
specific country and the procedures to follow to obtain diplomatic clearances from those countries.

       A5.1.1. The FCG does not always include country specific hazardous cargo aircraft
       diplomatic clearance coordination requirements. When in doubt, consult with 618 AOC
       International Clearance Branch (XOCZD) at DSN 312-779-3008 to determine lead time
       requirements for country landings and overflights. Always forward all hazardous cargo
       information to XCOZD, regardless of class, as soon as the information becomes available.


A5.2. Responsibilities Assigned.
       A5.2.1. 618 AOC/XOCZD is responsible for obtaining diplomatic clearances for aircraft
       and cargo when required by the DOD FCG. Diplomatic clearance is not obtained through
       port-to-port procedures by aerial ports and/or users. NOTE: The following categories of
       cargo are exempt from this paragraph: Poison and etiological/biological agent shipments.
       This cargo is processed according to AFMAN 24-204_IP, Preparing Hazardous Materials
       for Military Air Shipments. Shipments of nuclear weapons or nuclear weapons components.
       Clearances for these shipments are governed by the Special Weapons Over Flight Guide
       (SWOG).

       A5.2.2. Capability forecasting or designated representative (i.e. loadplanning, information
       control) will be responsible for the submission of cargo requiring diplomatic clearance to
       618 AOC/XOCZD. To ensure proper processing of cargo requiring diplomatic clearance:

              A5.2.2.1. Determine from the DOD FCG (and its classified volume) whether
              diplomatic clearances are required for each shipment. Information needed to
              determine this includes: type of cargo, ultimate user, destination country, and
              countries likely to be transited en route to destination. NOTE: For hazardous
              materials, special handling/cargo operations personnel will check the shipment
              against the FCG to determine if diplomatic clearance is required and coordinate with
              cape forecasting or designated representative accomplishing diplomatic clearance
              with 618 AOC/XOCZD.

              A5.2.2.2. Compile a listing for each country's requirement, and review the time
              periods (or lead time) necessary to process diplomatic clearances for each country.
              This information is listed in the DOD FCG by country: click Aircraft Entrance
              Requirements at the top of the page and then reference item B. AIRCRAFT
              CLEARANCE LEAD-TIME AND VALIDITY.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                              77




         A5.2.2.3. After determining the required completion date for diplomatic clearance
         action, initiate the request process by downloading the Hazardous Cargo Aircraft
         Clearance Request form located at URL: https://tacc.scott.af.mil/
         default.asp?action=FILEUPLOAD&component=TACC_FORMS

         A5.2.2.4. Submit completed request through 618 AOC/XOCZD via: Global e-mail
         at: tadip@us.af.mil or if electronic means are unavailable, fax requests to: DSN
         779-0154, or Commercial (618) 229-0154.

         A5.2.2.5. Information required by 618 AOC/XOCZD when requesting diplomatic
         clearances for explosives Class/Division 1.1, 1.2, 1.3; Toxic Chemical Ammunition
         (compatibility group K); Inhalation Hazard, Zone A Substance; Division 6.2 material
         requiring a technical escort; and Radioactive Materials required to be labeled
         radioactive yellow III.

                 A5.2.2.5.1. Proper Shipping Name.

                 A5.2.2.5.2. Hazard Class or Division (include compatibility group for
                 explosives).

                 A5.2.2.5.3. United Nations (UN) Number.

                 A5.2.2.5.4. Number of Pieces.

                 A5.2.2.5.5. Gross Weights.

                 A5.2.2.5.6. Net Explosive Weight for C/D 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4 and 1.5.
                 NOTE: Provide same information as requested in A5.2.2.5. to contracted
                 commercial air carriers for their use when obtaining diplomatic clearances
                 for hazardous materials.

         A5.2.2.6. After requesting clearance from 618 AOC/XOCZD, ATOC will:

                 A5.2.2.6.1. Monitor the status of the request by communicating with
                 XOCZD via telephone at Commercial 618-229-3008 or DSN 779-3008.

                 A5.2.2.6.2. Ensure diplomatically cleared cargo for a specific airlift
                 mission has priority over all other cargo eligible to be moved on the same
                 mission.

                 A5.2.2.6.3. Notify 618 AOC/XOCZD when changes to load plans affect
                 the type or quantity of hazardous material placed on or removed from the
                 aircraft. NOTE: Timely notification to 618 AOC/XOCZD concerning
                 changes to planned hazardous material on the aircraft is crucial in obtaining
  78                                                     AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


                       updated and correct diplomatic clearances and ensuring continued mission
                       movement.

A5.3. In coordination with the C2 agency, dispatch a priority message through administrative
channels, advising en route stations of diplomatically cleared cargo aboard the mission. (Prepare
message in accordance with AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications). If short
flying/transit times are involved, notification should be by telephone immediately followed up
with a message. Information passed will include the following:

       A5.3.1. Cargo TCN, pieces, weight, and cube.

       A5.3.2. Mission and aircraft tail numbers on which the cargo is moving.

       A5.3.3. A statement cautioning en route stations not to remove diplomatically cleared cargo
       from its specified mission.

       A5.3.4. Short notice requests for diplomatic clearances or requests to remove previously
       cleared cargo from an aircraft will be handled by the ATOC flight/section chief or aerial port
       duty officer. The ATOC flight/section chief or aerial port duty office will:

              A5.3.4.1. Advise their next higher headquarters of all particulars, to include an
              explanation of the operational necessity of the cargo and impact statement if cargo is
              not cleared. Notification will be by priority message, with information copy to each
              successive command level, including HQ AMC/A3 and 618 AOC/APCC.

              A5.3.4.2. Frustrate cargo that is awaiting diplomatic clearance. Port hold time is
              computed from the date and time the approved clearance becomes effective.

A5.4. Diplomatic Clearance for Weapons and Weapons Part Shipments. This section
outlines how to obtain diplomatic clearances for weapons and weapon parts.

        A5.4.1. For Commodity Code 2 shipments, special handling/cargo operations personnel
        will check the shipment against the FCG to determine if diplomatic clearance is required.

        A5.4.2. If diplomatic clearance is NOT required; the shipment will be put in "PRO" status
        in GATES. Send paperwork (if applicable) to the load planning section. This will let them
        know that NO clearance is needed.

        A5.4.3. If diplomatic clearance IS required; special handling/cargo operations personnel
        will put the shipment in "FRD" status.

        A5.4.4. Cape forecasting personnel or designated representative will monitor GATES
        daily to check for "FRD" cargo and ensure new shipments found in "FRD" status are
        cleared. Confirm or send requests to 618 AOC/XOCZD for weapons or weapons part
        shipments in accordance with instructions listed in paragraph A5.2.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                               79



     A5.4.5. After diplomatic clearance is obtained, cape forecasting or designated
     representative will notify special handling/loadplanning to take the shipment out of "FRD"
     status and place the shipment in "PRO" status and attach shipment to the scheduled
     mission. This will let Load Planning know that clearance has been obtained.
  80                                                    AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


                                          Attachment 6

                                      SPECIAL CARGO

A6.1. AMC MICAP. The ATOC duty officer/senior controller is directly responsible for
coordinating the movement of AMC MICAP with load planning, special handling, and
information control. Ensure the shipment is documented and manifested in accordance with
procedures in this volume and AMCI 23-102, Expeditious Movement of AMC MICAP/VVIP
Assets. Ensure remarks section of the MLR states that AMC MICAP cargo is aboard and provides
specific location aboard the aircraft. MICAP remarks will include at least the TCN, nomenclature,
and the aircraft type/tail number it is marked for (i.e., Mark for C-17/60017). ATOC duty
officers/senior controllers will personally monitor/control movement of all AMC MICAP
shipments from arrival in the terminal until loaded on an aircraft and departed. Delayed departures
for aircraft waiting on AMC MICAP will NOT be granted without 618 AOC/APCC approval and
coordination with 618 AOC/XOCL.

       A6.1.1. 618 AOC/APCC will pass MICAP movement information to the originating and
       terminating ATOC. Intransient ATOCs will be notified if MICAP transloads to another
       mission at their station. At locations that have GDSS, 618 AOC/APCC will pass MICAP
       movement information to ATOC by providing them the Transportation Plan Summary
       number which contains MICAP information. Transportation Plan Summary numbers are
       located in GDSS under the Aircraft Management tab; once on this screen, ports can search
       MICAP mission information using the 5-digit number passed to them from 618 AOC/APCC
       (Example: TP# 59316).

       A6.1.2. The ATOC duty officer/senior controller will notify 618 AOC/APCC when:

          A6.1.2.1. The port receives the AMC MICAP.

          A6.1.2.2. NLT 1 hour prior to selected mission's ETD, confirm AMC MICAP has been
          physically loaded on the aircraft.

          A6.1.2.3. An AMC MICAP does not arrive on station as previously coordinated.

          A6.1.2.4. An AMC MICAP shipment is received with missing or incorrect
          documentation (i.e. TCMD does not show shipment as having a Required Delivery Date
          (RDD) of 999, and project code 196, etc.).

          A6.1.2.5. An AMC MICAP shipment is incorrectly manifested to/from their location
          and to confirm corrective action requested by 618 AOC/XOCL has been accomplished.

          A6.1.2.6. When the outbound mission scheduled to transport the AMC MICAP is delayed,
          618 AOC/APCC will notify 618 AOC/XOCL. 618 AOC/XOCL will evaluate all factors to
          determine if an alternate movement plan and/or re-route is required. 618 AOC/XOCL will
          advise 618 AOC/APCC of all re-route requests. In turn, 618 AOC/APCC will advise the
          ATOC duty officer/senior controller of 618 AOC/XOCL generated re-route requests.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                               81




A6.2. Delays Affecting Movement of AMC MICAP, Life/Death, Green/Purple Sheet
Shipments. The ATOC duty officer/senior controller will monitor special interest cargo like
AMC MICAP, Green/Purple Sheet, life/death shipments planned or loaded on an originating or
transit aircraft with an anticipated delay of 2 hours or more. ATOC will advise 618 AOC/APCC of
the nature and priority of the shipments and if necessary, request re-routing instructions to
expedite cargo movement. If no change to the routing is made, contact 618 AOC/APCC every 12
hours to reassess situation with consideration of:

     A6.2.1. Estimated Time in Commission (ETIC) and slipping ETIC.

     A6.2.2. Extended crew rest.

     A6.2.3. Equipment or manpower availability.

     A6.2.4. Available terminal space.

     A6.2.5. Security requirements.

     A6.2.6. Local management factors.

A6.3. Shipments of AMC MICAP on Category B Passenger Missions. When using category
B passenger missions to move MICAP items, the following procedures apply:

    A6.3.1. Limit shipment to non-passenger prohibitive cargo. Shipments must not exceed 100
    lbs. and must fit into the baggage compartment of the aircraft.

    A6.3.2. Follow same guidelines listed in paragraph A6.1.

A6.4. Remains of Deceased Personnel. Transportation of military and other authorized
remains by AMC is authorized between overseas and CONUS, CONUS to CONUS and CONUS
to overseas in accordance with DOD Directive 1300.22, Mortuary Affairs Policy and AFI 34-242,
Mortuary Affairs Program.

    A6.4.1. Restrict movement of HRs to cargo or dual-configured airlift missions when
    possible; however, baggage compartment space on passenger-type aircraft may be used when
    satisfactory service cannot be accomplished on cargo missions.

    A6.4.2. Upon receipt of HRs, all air terminals will contact 618 AOC/APCC who in turn will
    determine airlift and take appropriate measures to expedite onward movement.

    A6.4.3. HRs may be shipped on AE missions for AOR and contingency locations where
    timely movement of HRs cannot be satisfied by subsequent airlift. 618 AOC/APCC
    controllers will coordinate all movement of HRs on AE missions, if approval is granted, 618
  82                                                    AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


    AOC/APCC will advise all stations affected and update GDSS Mission Display. NOTE: If
    needed, HRs can be loaded at the back of the aircraft (not on the ramp).

    A6.4.4. HRs shipped from overseas to a stateside location destined to DOV may be airlifted
    via military air. For example, a line of duty death at HIK may travel HIK-SUU then
    transferred to a DOV flight if deemed the fastest mode of transportation.

    A6.4.5. The destination station's ATOC will notify the mortuary officer or designated
    agency receiving the shipment of the ETA of the aircraft.

    A6.4.6. Cremated Remains. See current AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program for
    guidance.

    A6.4.7. Escort duties must be performed per AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program. If
    possible, do not separate escorts accompanying HRs.

    A6.4.8. If a unit representative is acting as an escort and cannot make a flight or connection,
    the remains will proceed without them.

    A6.4.9. If the family has requested a specific escort and that person is traveling on a
    mortuary fund citation, his/her duties do not begin until the remains leave the mortuary.

A6.5. HRs Mission Load Report (MLR). ATOC information control is responsible for
preparing MLR input relating to movement of HRs. The originating station will obtain all
information required for movement messages, other than flight data, from the local mortuary
affairs activity. MLR information will include the deceased individual's name, rank, branch of
service and agency/individual to receive. The message will be placed in PART III of the MLR.

A6.6. Life or Death Shipments. These shipments consist of biological or other medical
supplies of such urgency that human life is dependent upon immediate receipt. The shipper will
establish life or death urgency upon delivery to an AMC terminal. See AMCI 24-101, Vol. 11,
Cargo and Mail Policy for more information.

A6.7. Green Sheet Cargo/Procedures. An action invoked by DOD components to identify
specific cargo already on hand at an air terminal that requires movement precedence over all other
cargo, including 999 shipments, from that DOD component. Green Sheet is not a priority; rather, it
is designed to override priorities when expedited movement of specific shipments is required.
These shipments are considered in the interest of national defense and must be certified as an
operational necessity by sponsoring Service. It only overrides priorities for the requesting
Service's shipments. Blanket Green Sheet action is not authorized. Judicious application of Green
Sheet procedures is essential to preserve the effectiveness of its intent. Exception: In the absence
of Customer Service Branch (CSB) or Aircraft Clearance Authority (ACA) action, the air terminal
operations officer (or designated representative) may initiate Green Sheet action when necessary
to meet a DOD component RDD for a Green Sheet shipment. NOTE: This does not authorize
air terminal operations officers to designate any cargo as Green Sheet only to act upon a
sponsoring Service's Green Sheet request.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 83




   A6.7.1. Requests for Green Sheet actions will be submitted by letter, email or fax to the
   sponsoring service ACA or overseas ACA that has geographical responsibility over the
   aerial port where the on-hand cargo is located.

   A6.7.2. Green Sheet requests must include TCN, pieces, weight, cube, consignee
   DODAAC, APOE/APOD, and a valid reason for Green Sheet action (i.e. aircraft down, work
   stoppage). Customers must be specific regarding urgency and vague statements such as
   "urgently needed" are not sufficient.
   A6.7.3. The originating ACA will coordinate in writing (either E-mail or fax) with down--
   line ACAs to ensure that cargo remains "Green-Sheeted" when on a terminating channel
   mission and/or enroute stops to ensure action remains in effect to final destination. All
   down-line/enroute stations are required to honor original Green Sheet action.

   A6.7.4. APOEs will accommodate Green Sheet requests to the maximum extent consistent
   with airlift management effectiveness. AMC, however, has final authority for determining
   the method for providing timely and responsible movement consistent with priority
   precedence determined by the shipper service.

   A6.7.5. If a situation arises in which airlift capability cannot move all Green Sheet cargo on
   hand for a particular destination, that cargo will move in the sequence in which it was Green
   Sheeted and ATOC must notify the appropriate ACA/CSB and 618 AOC/APCC of the
   situation.

   A6.7.6. At automated stations, load planning section will enter an alpha code "G" in the
   special priority field of GATES and enter the words “Green Sheet as of (insert the GMT hour
   and date the code request was received)” in the applicable trailer (TX1) data fields. This
   trailer record will remain through all transshipment points to final destination.

   A6.7.7. At manual stations, load planning will ensure the statement "Green Sheet as of (in
   the clear date and time of request)" is typed or printed in the remarks Section (block 21) of
   the DD Form 1384 manual TCMD, and under applicable line entries on the manifest. Prepare
   DD Form 1384 in accordance with DTR 4500.09, Part II, Cargo Movement. Document
   Identifier Code (DIC) T_I will apply.

   A6.7.8. One copy of the Green Sheet request will be accomplished by the requesting
   agency for each TCN. Entries and procedures required above provide adequate
   documentation of Green Sheeting action within the aerial port. Return or route Green Sheet
   request to the appropriate CSB or ACA for retention and disposition. Local management is
   authorized to retain a file copy of the Green Sheet request or letter if desired.

   A6.7.9. For more information regarding Green Sheet procedures review the DTR
   4500.9-R, Part II, Cargo Movement, and AFI 24-203, Preparation and Movement of Air
   Force Cargo.
  84                                                     AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


A6.8. Purple Sheet Cargo/Procedures . The Purple Sheet process authorizes specifically
identified cargo in the AMC system in transit to the Combatant Command (COCOM) area of
responsibility (AOR) to gain movement precedence over other priority cargo in transit to the
COCOM AOR, including 999 and Green Sheet shipments, regardless of service lane or arrival
date at the APOE. The COCOM requires the ability to prioritize sustainment cargo during Lines of
Communication (LOC) stress or during shifts of contingency/combat operations. The intent is to
outline a process for the supported combat command to prioritize sustainment cargo already on
hand at an APOE for subsequent flow into the COCOM area of responsibility per the DTR
4500.9-R, Part II, Cargo Movement. The COCOM utilizes Purple Sheeting to expedite movement
of specific shipment(s) of national interest and operational necessity. Purple Sheet applies from
initial identification to the shipment‘s final destination APOD.

       A6.8.1. The COCOM J4 approves Purple Sheet request and forwards to COCOM
       Deployment Distribution Operations Center (CDDOC). CDDOC will forward after
       coordination to the USTRANSCOM Deployment Distribution Operation Center (DDOC).
       The DDOC tasks the 618 AOC, who in turn tasks the applicable Aerial Port (APOE). No
       blanket shipment or plane load Purple Sheet request will be approved.

       A6.8.2. Aerial Port procedures. The only authorized Purple Sheeting authority to the
       Aerial Ports will be the 618 AOC. Once the Aerial Port is tasked by the 618 AOC the
       following actions will occur:

       A6.8.2.1. The Air Terminal Operations Center (ATOC) coordinates the request with the
       applicable work centers (i.e., Load Planning, Capability Forecasting, or Cargo Operations) to
       confirm that the cargo is on hand at the APOE and movement ready.

       A6.8.2.2. ATOC notifies the service ACA or Customer Service Branch (CSB) for CONUS
       ports of Purple Sheet cargo.

       A6.8.2.3. If applicable, the CSB or ACA changes the priority and RDD fields in the Global
       Air Transportation Execution System (GATES) to read “1” “999” and enter the words
       “Purple Sheet as of XXXXZ” in the applicable trailer (TX1) data fields. If no CSB or ACA
       assistance is available, ATOC will direct the Air Freight section to accomplish the system
       changes. Since no special priority code exists for Purple Sheet cargo, adding the information
       to the trailer data fields above is key to identifying the cargo as Purple Sheet for ITV
       purposes.

       A6.8.2.4. At manual stations, the load planning section will ensure the statement "Purple
       Sheet" as of (in the clear date and time of request) is typed or printed in the remarks block
       (item 21) of the DD Form 1384 manual TCMD, and under applicable line entries on the
       manifest. Prepare DD Form 1384 in accordance with DOD 4500.32-R. Document Identifier
       Code (DIC) T_I will apply.

       A6.8.2.5. Stage loose shipments in a specific warehouse location for ramp services or task
       the Special Handling work center to upload. These shipments are high-visibility, so it is
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  85



     imperative that the Aerial Port leadership ensures expeditious and well-coordinated
     movement.

     A6.8.2.6. Plan movement on the first available mission. Purple Sheet cargo will not
     displace cargo already manifested on departing aircraft, unless directed by 618 AOC.

     A6.8.2.7. Manifest Purple Sheeted cargo separately with markings ―Purple Sheet Cargo.

     A6.8.2.8. Every effort will be made to release the cargo at its end destination as swiftly as
     possible upon aircraft arrival.

     A6.8.2.9. For more information regarding Purple Sheet procedures review the DTR
     4500.9-R, Part II, Cargo Movement, and AFI 24-203, Preparation and Movement of Air
     Force Cargo.

A6.9. NWRM scope and guidance: In response to a recent Office of the Secretary of Defense
(OSD) released memorandum on NWRM, an Air Force Nuclear Logistics Surety Team (NLST)
developed mandatory fundamentals training for all logisticians who manage, handle, or process
NWRM assets IAW AFI 20-110, Nuclear Weapons-Related Materials Management, paragraph
9.1.1, NWRM requires safeguards to ensure system integrity, security and accountability are
maintained at all times.

     A6.9.1. The OSD approved definition of NWRM is “classified or unclassified assemblies
     and subassemblies (containing no fissionable or fusionable materiel) identified by the
     military departments that comprise or could comprise a standardized war reserve nuclear
     weapon (including equivalent training devices) as it would exist once separated/removed
     from its intended delivery vehicle.”

     A6.9.2. The AF adds definition to NWRM (NWRM-AF) as “select nuclear combat delivery
     system components and use control equipment that are design sensitive, or needed to
     authorize, prearm, arm, launch, release or target a nuclear weapon, or needed to maintain and
     protect system integrity.”

     A6.9.3. NWRM procedures and guidance apply to all nuclear sustainment activities
     directly or indirectly involved in NWRM management. This includes air force supply (base,
     depot), transportation, maintenance (base, depot contract/organic), munitions, depot storage,
     disposal, demilitarization, and anywhere NWRM is managed, located, stored, used, etc. The
     successful application of these procedures requires the full cooperation of all personnel
     associated with the storage, shipping, transshipping and receiving of all
     hazardous/non-hazardous and classified/unclassified NWRM assets.

     A6.9.4. NWRM carries a commodity code “5” and special handling code “Y” when
     processed IAW applicable guidance in AMCI 24-101, Vol. 11, Cargo and Mail Policy.
  86                                                       AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013


                                            Attachment 7

                                AMC FORM 56 INSTRUCTIONS

A7.1. The AMC Form 56 is designed to provide management with an overview of the re-handled
workload for the entire aerial port. The form will cover an entire operating month and is the source
document for re-handled data. Credit CANNOT be taken by one section to correct mistakes by
another. Non-GATES sites may use the manual AMC Form 56 in lieu of electronic version.

A7.2. Re-handled aircraft workload is defined as requirement changes outside the control of the
air terminal. Examples include: extended delays (delays 24 hours or greater), reroutes, load
changes, or aircraft swaps resulting in the re-accomplishment of any previously completed ATOC
action, excluding the information control function. Note that disseminating information to
subordinate work centers, to include Estimated Time in Commission (ETIC) changes, departure
time changes, and all other mission status updates is not considered re-handled work; it is part of
the information control function and is inherent in working an aircraft mission. Additionally, do
not count cancelled or diverted missions as re-handled aircraft because this workload is reported in
a separate column on the 7107 report. Note that ATOC reports on its own re-handling actions and
does not report re-handles for other aerial port functions (e.g., passenger operations, cargo
operations, loadplanning, etc.). ATOC will fill out the form for the following reasons:

       A7.2.1. An ATOC representative is required to make additional trips to an aircraft to
       coordinate/ control subordinate work center actions during extended delays, mission
       reroutes, or load or aircraft swaps (one re-handle for each mission essential trip). Note that
       trips by the ramp controller or aerial port duty officer to check aircraft configurations, obtain
       required paperwork, coordinate with the aircrew, or in any other way coordinate/monitor
       routine aircraft loading and servicing operations, do not constitute an aircraft re-handle.
       NOTE: You must physically work the aircraft, i.e., re-process, re-handle the cargo, mail,
       baggage, or re-transport passengers, to take credit for any re-handled workload. See AMCI
       24-101, Vol. 6, Transportation Documentation, Data, Record, and Reports for more
       information.

A7.3. AMC Form 56 Instructions. Use the following instructions when completing AMC
Form 56.

       A7.3.1. Authentication (Signed): Requires a review/validation and signature of the
       appropriate of ATOC flight/section chief and cargo operations flight/section chief for
       re-handled aircraft workload.

       A7.3.2. Date: See below.

       A7.3.3. From: Enter the day, month and year.

       A7.3.4. To: Enter the day, month, and year.

       A7.3.5. Page of pages: self-explanatory.
AMCI24-101V9 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                87




    A7.3.6. Mission number/call sign: Enter the 12-position mission number (e.g.,
    PQCT657Y0186). Enter the call sign when used in lieu of the 12-position mission number.

    A7.3.7. Aircraft Type/Number: C-17/00000, B-747/00000, DC-10/00000, etc.

    A7.3.8. Aircraft Re-handled: This section applies only to ATOC. Cargo operations
    disregards this entry. Enter the number of re-handled actions performed for each mission.

    A7.3.9. Affected Work Center: Enter the work center performing the re-handled work.
    ATOC completes for all ATOC work centers (i.e., ramp control) while cargo operations
    completes for all cargo operations work centers (e.g., cargo operations, ramp, special
    handling, load planning, etc.).

    A7.3.10. Reason for Re-handling: State reasons for task indicated. Do not omit this item.
    Provide rationale for all re-handle actions. Attach a continuation page if you can't provide
    complete rationale in the space provided.

Figure 7.1. AMC Form 56
