BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              AMC INSTRUCTION 36-2207
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                                 1 November 1998

                                                                                            Personnel

                                                    AIR MOBILITY WARFARE CENTER (AMWC)
                                                    COURSE DEVELOPMENT AND OWNERSHIP
                                                                              PROCESS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: A copy of this publication can be found digitally at http: www.safb.af.mil:80/hqamc/pa/pubs/
pubhome2.htm. If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AMWC/WCDD                                                     Certified by: HQ AMWC/WCD
     (Lt Col Rudy Becker)                                                         (Col William Rutter)
                                                                                              Pages: 3
                                                                                       Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-22, Military Training, and establishes a sys-
tematic means for AMC functional managers to initiate, develop, validate and update AMWC courses to
meet a new or ongoing AMC training requirement. It assigns responsibilities to AMC functional manag-
ers, the AMWC Dean of Education (WCD), and AMWC course directors to ensure current, valid and
properly funded courseware. NOTICE: AMWC prepares and trains AMC, Department of Defense
(DoD) and allied personnel to effectively lead, integrate, sustain, and employ the Global Air Mobility
System. This instruction outlines procedures for the initiation, development, and review of AMWC
courseware. It does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
units.



1. Principal Participants. Every AMWC course has three principal participants:
   1.1. AMC Functional Managers establish course requirements on behalf of their respective Director.
   1.2. The AMWC Dean of Education provides oversight for all AMWC course material.
   1.3. AMWC Course Directors manage the individual course on a day-to-day basis.

2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. AMC Functional Managers:
       2.1.1. Coordinate preliminary course definition, target audience, annual student through put and
       course objectives with AMWC/WCD prior to submitting a formal new course request.
       2.1.2. Submit a formal request for a new course through the appropriate AMC Director to
       AMWC/CC. Significant additional requirements for existing courses (e.g. mobile training teams,
       increased course frequency, training days, etc.) should be requested through AMWC/WCD.
       Request for new courses should include the following:
2                                                                    AMCI36-2207 1 November 1998

          2.1.2.1. Training Need Overview. Identify the specific deficit in capability which generated
          the request for training. Include a description of related training currently available through
          other sources and the rationale for establishing a separate course of instruction versus amend-
          ing current training.
          2.1.2.2. Course Objectives. Identify specific knowledge and skills gained as a result of
          AMWC training. These should be directly related to meeting the current training deficit.
          2.1.2.3. Target Audience and Course Frequency. Identify the annual numbers and organi-
          zations of personnel targeted to receive training. Include the desired mix for each class and
          annual frequency and timing if applicable. This information will form the basis for future
          quota management.
          2.1.2.4. Target Implementation Date. Identify the desired start-up date for course activa-
          tion.
       2.1.3. Solicit funding for the first two fiscal years of course operation. AMWC courses are
       funded through program element code (PEC) 41897. Submit short-notice requirements first
       through HQ AMC/DOTR, program element monitor for PEC 41897. If funds are not available
       through reallocation from central accounts, submit unfunded requirement via AMC Form 1008,
       Statement of Unfunded Requirements, to HQ AMC/FM. AMWC/WCD will program fol-
       low-on funding.
       2.1.4. Following a determination of manpower requirements by the AMWC Dean of Education,
       establish (through HQ AMC/XP) the additional manpower authorizations necessary to conduct
       courses.
       2.1.5. Provide subject matter experts to advise AMWC Instructional Systems Development
       (ISD)-trained personnel during initial course development and follow-on course reviews.
       2.1.6. Participate in initial and follow-on ISD workshops hosted by AMWC/WCD. Complete
       ISD course reviews will be conducted every 2 years. During off-years, functional managers will,
       at a minimum, attend their respective course and review course objectives and material for validity
       and currency.
       2.1.7. Determine target audience and serve as overall AMC course quota manager. Subquota
       management may be delegated to lateral or subordinate units, e.g. Numbered Air Force, ANG, and
       AFRC components.
       2.1.8. Ensure timely course, technology, and command policy updates are provided to the respec-
       tive AMWC Course Director to guarantee currency of instructional material.
    2.2. AMWC Dean of Education:
       2.2.1. Evaluate all requests for new courses, and make a recommendation to the AMWC/CC
       regarding feasibility. Recommendation will include course overview, development timeline and
       additional manpower requirements.
       2.2.2. Provide ISD expertise to facilitate initial course development and annual course reviews.
       2.2.3. Serve as overall manager for the Kirkpatrick Model survey process to ensure ongoing
       course effectiveness. Annually, report Kirkpatrick Model survey results and propose changes to
       the functional manager to improve course effectiveness.
AMCI36-2207 1 November 1998                                                                         3

  2.3. AMWC Course Directors:
     2.3.1. Serve as office of primary responsibility (OPR) for course development, management, and
     instruction using the ISD process.
     2.3.2. Ensure course validity through the administration of course effectiveness surveys, student
     testing and annual ISD reviews. The Kirkpatrick Model will be the basis for measurement of
     course effectiveness.
     2.3.3. Organize course reviews and provide the AMWC Dean of Education with data for annual
     updates on course status and student performance.
     2.3.4. Develop follow-on course funding requests and submit to AMC through AMWC/CC.



                                      WILLIAM WELSER III, Major General, USAF
                                      Commander, Air Mobility Warfare Center
