BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                               INSTRUCTION 90-903

                                                                              26 JUNE 2014

                                                                       Special Management

                                                       AVIATION OPERATIONAL RISK
                                                    MANAGEMENT (AVORM) PROGRAM



            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AMC/SEF                                                   Certified by: HQ AMC/SE
                                                                          (Col Mark A. Hale)
                                                                                   Pages: 19
Supersedes: AMCI90-903, 5 November 2007


This instruction implements the standardized AMC Aviation Operational Risk Management
(AvORM) Program created as a command-wide standardized process to quickly and simply
assess the risk of our flying missions. AMCI 90-903 Aviation Operational Risk Management
(AVORM) Program is issued under Air Mobility Command’s (AMC) authority as Air Force
Transportation Component (AFTRANS), the air component of United States Transportation
Command (USTRANSCOM). It provides guidance for completion of AvORM and AMC
Aeromedical Evacuation Crew Member (AECM) risk management (RM) worksheets. This
product does not replace or override current published guidance. The AvORM tool assists,
highlights, and shares responsibility for safe mission accomplishment among planners,
leadership, and aircrew. This instruction applies to AMC, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
and Air National Guard (ANG) aircraft and personnel when performing airlift and/or air
refueling missions under the control of the 618th Air and Space Operations Center /Tanker
Airlift Control Center [618 AOC (TACC)], the Joint Operational Support Airlift Center
(JOSAC) or the Assistant Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force Special Air Missions Division
(CVAM). AMC flying units will develop a local ORM program to include personal ORM
assessment for other than 618 AOC (TACC)/JOSAC/CVAM-tasked missions. Local ORM
products will be accomplished by crew members prior to each flight. AMC units are encouraged
to use the AMC AvORM web based program and manual products for all missions, eliminating
the requirement to develop and maintain local products and analysis. Unit-approved AvORM
tools may be used to supplement the AMC AvORM worksheet but will not be used as a
 2                                                                 AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014


replacement. If this publication is supplemented, it must be approved through AMC Safety.
Additional RM guidance can be found in AFI 90-802, Risk Management, AFPD 90-8,
Environment, Safety & Occupational Health Management and Risk Management, and AFPAM
90-803, Risk Management (RM) Guidelines and Tools. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, 29 August 2013 (AFMAN 33-363_AFGM2014-01, 28 May 2014), and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Send
questions and recommended changes for this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Submit requests for
waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or
alternately, to the publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The major revisions to AMCI 90-903 include: scoring clarity for the worksheet, guidance for
using the web application, removal of references to the Global Decision Support System (GDSS)
mission detail remarks, removal of references to Tier levels 1-4 and replacement with Initial
Planner, Current Operations, Squadron and Aircrew scoring functions. The Aeromedical
Evacuation (AE) medical crews section has been rewritten. Guidance for the AMC Mission
Effectiveness (Fatigue Modeling) Graph and supporting attachments to include the change
review board has been added.


1. Introduction to AMC’s Aviation ORM (AvORM).
     1.1. General. Risk is defined as the probability and severity of loss or adverse impact from
     exposure to various hazards. All Air Force operations involve risk. RM is the systematic
     process of identifying hazards, assessing risk, making control decisions, implementing
     control decisions and supervising/reviewing the activity for effectiveness. AMC’s AvORM
     program is a simple process to identify operational hazards that require mitigating measures
     to reduce risk to personnel and/or equipment while successfully accomplishing the mission.
     1.2. Approach. AMC's AvORM is a formalized decision-making tool to systematically
     identify risks and encourage mitigation strategies that allow the appropriate level of
     supervision to balance risk versus benefits. AMC AvORM is a proactive process that applies
     to all flight operations conducted under the control of the 618 AOC (TACC), JOSAC or
     CVAM. The AMC AvORM program is in the third phase of development. The AvORM
     web application tool resides in the Global Decision Support System (GDSS) enclave with
     limited auto populate capability and provides predictive risk management. Users must have a
     current/active GDSS account to access the AvORM web application.
     (https://avorm.maf.ustranscom.mil/default.aspx ) Data analysis presented to the change
     review board will continue to be used to refine the AvORM worksheet and scoring.
     1.3. Scope. AvORM is a tool to identify risks and encourage mitigation at the lowest level.
     AvORM does not replace sound judgment or restrict safety-of-flight decisions by the aircraft
     commander (AC) or leadership. This AMCI applies to all airlift and/or air refueling missions
     conducted under the control of the 618 AOC (TACC), JOSAC, or CVAM. In situations
     where accomplishing the provisions of this AMCI is impractical, final mission acceptance
AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014                                                                         3


   authority remains with the AC. In unique situations, process variations (not worksheet) that
   meet the intent of this AMCI are authorized.
   1.4. Analysis. AMC Flight Safety will review the AvORM database annually to analyze risk
   events and to ensure worksheet validity and scoring accuracy prior to convening the change
   review board. This will ensure the program continues to capture applicable risk events and
   scoring as it applies to the AMC AvORM program. Units should review their AvORM data
   through the query function in the AvORM web application to analyze their 618 AOC
   (TACC)/JOSAC/CVAM-tasked missions for risk identification and ensure mitigation actions
   are commensurate with the tasked mission. The unit AvORM point of contact and the unit
   commander will determine what data is reviewed at the unit level.
   1.5. Waivers and Deviations. Deviations from this instruction are not authorized without the
   prior written approval from HQ AMC/SE. ACs will coordinate waiver requests through 618
   AOC (TACC)/JOSAC/CVAM (as applicable) to HQ AMC/SEF, for HQ AMC/SE approval.
   The AC must state the reason that the AvORM process cannot be followed, provide
   supporting documentation and explain how the aircrew will manage risk for their aviation
   mission. (T-2)
2. AvORM Worksheet Overview.
   2.1. General. The AvORM worksheet and AECM RM worksheet are the standardized AMC
   risk management tools for risk identification, evaluation, scoring, and acceptance.
   AMC/SEF is responsible for currency of the AvORM worksheet and AMC/A3VM is
   responsible for the currency of the AE RM worksheet. The AvORM process does not
   absolve the AC of responsibility for the safety and welfare of crew and aircraft. The most
   current version of the worksheets, fatigue scoring and web application training slides can be
   found on the AF portal website under the AMC/SEF AMC AvORM link.
   https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
   af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=s6925EC134B5F0FB5E044080020E329A9
   2.2. Web Application. All aircrews performing 618 AOC (TACC)/JOSAC/CVAM-tasked
   missions will use the web application commensurate with computer accessibility and
   operational requirements. Users must have a current/active GDSS account to access the
   AvORM web application. (https://avorm.maf.ustranscom.mil/default.aspx) If mission
   changes occur in the planning phase or during the duty period, units and/or aircrew must re-
   evaluate mission risk and update the web application if risk factors change. In the event the
   web application is unavailable; aircrew as a minimum will complete one paper worksheet per
   flight duty period, scoring the Aircrew column per this AMCI.
Note: Risk Factor manual overrides to the web application will be determined by the Operations
Risk Assessment Management System branch (OpsRAMS) with AMC/DA3-1 approval.

   2.3. Functional Scoring. There are four scoring functions; Initial Planner, Wing Current
   Operations, Squadron Supervision, and Aircrew. The process starts with the broad
   perspective of mission complexity at initial tasking, to detailed assessment based on mission
   type, mission timeline, environment, crew experience and qualifications, and aircraft status at
   execution. All involved will take appropriate abatement actions whenever the risk score
   exceeds the thresholds. As a minimum, the aircrew will accomplish the aircrew portion of
   the AvORM web application or paper worksheet for each duty period.
 4                                                                  AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014


        2.3.1. Initial Planners. The individual who plans a flight will assess all known risks at
        the time the mission is planned. Initial Planners include 618 AOC (TACC) planners,
        wing planners, theater air operations center, mission ops planner and aircrews for crew-
        planned sorties. This is the first opportunity to assess the risk of a mission based on its
        complexity and to begin to take appropriate mitigation actions when required.
        2.3.2. Wing Current Operations. Current operations planners will review all missions
        tasked to the unit and complete a risk assessment to ensure that any local constraints are
        accounted for in the risk assessment from the initial planner and that they concur with the
        risk assessment. Examples would include home station, deployed current operations, and
        stage managers.
        2.3.3. Squadron Supervision. Squadron level supervisors will review missions and
        assess the risk based on crew experience, difficulty of mission, and operational
        environment. Squadron supervision includes commanders, operations officer, supervisors
        of flying, and en route stage leadership, or anyone designated by the squadron
        commander.
        2.3.4. Aircrew. The AC or his/her designee from the crew will perform a risk assessment
        based on the complexity of the mission, weather, crew experience and qualifications,
        duty time, cumulative fatigue, and the operational environment. Flight Managers are
        considered part of the aircrew. They will assist in scoring aircrew items, begin
        appropriate mitigation actions prior to crew show time and coordinate actions with the
        aircrew. The AC has the final authority over selected risk levels.
3. Worksheet Use, Tracking and Archiving.
     3.1. General. The AMC AvORM worksheet begins with the planning function, then moves
     to the supervisory chain, and to the aircrew for final evaluation. Squadron leadership, to
     include the flight order authenticating official, will make and/or review inputs. The AC will
     complete the web application or manual worksheet prior to flight. The event scores entered
     into the Initial Planner, Current Ops and SQ columns will be validated from column to
     column and conclude with Aircrew column. The AC will complete the aircrew column and
     validate scores as conditions dictate.
     Note: The most current worksheet and definitions can be found at the AMC/SE web-site on
     the AF portal. AMC/SE is the OPR for the worksheet and definitions. Examples of all
     scored items can be found in the “definitions” document on the AMC/SE AvORM website
     on the AF portal. For events with subjective scoring descriptions (routine, challenging,
     difficult, severe, etc.) the use of standardized guidance at the unit level is approved.

     3.2. Worksheet Flow.
        3.2.1. Prior to mission execution.
            3.2.1.1. The 618 AOC (TACC) planner or wing planner will score and validate
            known risks while planning the mission using the AMC AvORM web application. If
            the risk exceeds the threshold in any individual factor or the total score, the planner
            must take appropriate mitigating action. If the mission risk cannot be mitigated, the
            planner will use Table 1 to determine appropriate authority to accept the risk. With
AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014                                                                     5


        AMC AvORM web application the planner will review the critical phases of mission
        effectiveness (ME) graph and follow guidance in paragraph 3.3.1.
        Note: If the web application is unavailable and time allows, planners may complete a
        paper worksheet or the Microsoft Excel version (located on the Air Force Portal,
        AMC/SEF Flight Safety Division website) and transmit it to the crew.

        3.2.1.2. Current Operations will review 618 AOC (TACC) planner or wing planner
        AvORM scores in the Initial Planners column of the AMC AvORM worksheet and
        score the mission in Current Ops column. If risk abatement actions are required, the
        current operations planner should coordinate mission changes with Initial Planner
        and/or obtain appropriate approval per Table 3.1. With AMC AvORM web
        application the current operations planner will review the critical phases of ME graph
        and follow guidance in paragraph 3.3.1.
        3.2.1.3. Squadron leadership will review Initial Planner and Current Operation risk
        assessments and complete a risk assessment in the Squadron column of the
        worksheet. If risk abatement actions are required, the planner will coordinate mission
        changes with the Initial Planner and/or obtain appropriate approval per Table 1. With
        AMC AvORM web application the squadron planner will review the critical phases
        of ME graph and follow guidance in paragraph 3.3.1.
        3.2.1.4. The AC or his/her designee will review the AvORM worksheet either via the
        web application or paper worksheet. He/she will then carry the Initial Planners,
        Current Operations and Squadron scores into the Aircrew column, evaluate the risks
        and make adjustments as necessary. If risk abatement actions are required, the AC
        will coordinate mission changes with the Initial Planner and/or obtain appropriate
        approval per Table 1. With AMC AvORM web application the aircrew will review
        the critical phases of ME graph. The AC will add a record and close the web
        application or sign the completed manual AvORM worksheet and leave a copy with
        the squadron or nearest command and control agency.
        3.2.1.5. Prior to the start of each flight duty period, every aircrew member will make
        every effort to use the Health, Stress, and Fatigue scorecard on the back of the AMC
        AvORM worksheet to self-evaluate his/her current health/stress and fatigue risk level.
        The AC will query the results, take the highest health/stress and fatigue score and
        copy it into the health/stress and fatigue worksheet section of the web application.
        These assessments will automatically populate to the health/stress and fatigue risk
        factors allowing the AC to select the applicable flight duty period in which they
        apply. If the aircrew is using the manual worksheet, the AC will enter the
        health/stress and fatigue results in the Aircrew column of the worksheet. The
        health/stress and fatigue scorecard can also be found on the AMC/SEF web-site on
        the AF portal. https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channel
        PageId=s6925EC134B5F0FB5E044080020E329A9
     3.2.2. Mission in Execution.
        3.2.2.1. The Flight Managers or Stage Managers are considered part of the aircrew
        and will review the planners risk assessment and assist in scoring the Aircrew
        column. If risk thresholds are exceeded prior to crew show time they will take
6                                                                 AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014


           appropriate mitigation actions and coordinate these actions with the planning agency
           or obtain appropriate approval authority as determined by Table 3.1. With AMC
           AvORM web application the planner will review the critical phases of ME graph and
           follow guidance in paragraph 3.3.1. The AC is the final authority for risk acceptance.
           3.2.2.2. The AC or his/her designee will review the AvORM worksheet either via the
           web application or paper worksheet. He/she will then carry the Initial Planners,
           Current Operations and Squadron scores into Aircrew column, evaluate risk and
           adjust as necessary. If risk abatement actions are required, the AC will coordinate
           mission changes with the Initial Planner and controlling agency or obtain appropriate
           approval for risk acceptance per Table 1. The AC will review the ME graph for
           appropriate crew work/rest management. The AC will add a record and close the web
           application or sign the completed manual AvORM worksheet and leave a copy with
           the controlling agency.
       3.2.3. Mission in Execution - Re-Cut.
           3.2.3.1. The 618 AOC (TACC) planner, execution agency or wing planner will
           evaluate mission changes and update the AMC AvORM risk assessment and mitigate
           if able before crew show. The review will include the ME graph using guidance in
           paragraph 3.3.1. Upon crew show, 618 AOC (TACC) planner or wing planner will
           brief the AC concerning any mission re-cut and work with the AC to update the AMC
           AvORM score based on joint input and obtain any required approval for risk
           acceptance per Table 1. The AC will review the ME graph for appropriate crew
           work/rest management.
    3.3. Worksheet Approval Matrix. Each functional level will evaluate applicable individual
    events and the total score for every mission and determine if risk abatement actions are
    required or obtain appropriate approval per Table 1.
       3.3.1. Mission Effectiveness (ME) graph. The planner, current operations, squadron
       leadership/delegate, and aircrew will review the critical phases of flight on the AvORM
       ME graph (Takeoff, Landing, Air Refuel and Airdrop) during mission planning and
       execution. During execution the Command and Control (C2) execution authority should
       monitor for negative effects. If the “Graph” button is orange with red letters, the ME
       graph is showing increased risk that may be difficult for the aircrew to manage. All
       parties will review all risk factors for combined multiple effects (night landing,
       mountainous terrain etc.) and consider adjusting the mission as required to reduce risk
       (extended or reduced ground time, aircrew augmentation etc.). If the fatigue risk cannot
       be mitigated, a note specifying the affected ICAO city pair, displayed date and time of
       the fatigue risk event and the C2 reviewing official’s name will be annotated in the
       comments section of the Fatigue Score risk factor on the AMC AvORM worksheet. The
       reviewing official should be Deputy Director of Operations/Division Chief or Equivalent,
       Squadron Commander or their Designated Representative.
AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014                                                                         7


Table 1. Approval/Signatures Required for Assessed Risk Levels
RISK                Approval Authority: home station          Approval Authority: during mission
                   predeparture                              execution
LOW                No Sign-off Required                      No Sign-off Required
MODERATE Operations Officer or Designated                    618 AOC (TACC) Duty Officer, if not
                   Representative                            already approved by TACC Branch
                   (one sign-off per mission)                Chief) (one sign-off per mission)
HIGH               Squadron Commander or Designated          618 AOC (TACC) DDO/Division
                   Representative                            Chief
SEVERE             Operations Group Commander or             618 AOC (TACC) Senior Director or
                   Designated Representative                 General Officer
Note 1: In the event the AMC AvORM mission risk level has increased above the previously
approved level and the AC while exhausting all communications options is unable to contact 618
AOC (TACC) or the home unit, he or she will carefully consider and evaluate the risk before
continuing or aborting the mission.
Note 2: For 618 AOC (TACC)-tasked missions, or wing current operations planned missions, the
planner is the only approval necessary to operate an entire mission in the LOW risk category. A
one-time signature on the crew orders by the flight order authenticating official or 618 AOC
(TACC) Branch Chief is the only approval necessary to operate an entire mission in the
MODERATE risk category. If at any time during a mission an individual risk factor or total score
as directed on the worksheet, reaches the HIGH or SEVERE category, additional approval will
comply with Table 1.


   3.4. Signature Blocks. The AC will make every effort to access the web application or as a
   minimum, sign and date the manual worksheet (include the duty day mission numbers)
   signature block for every crew duty day. Any time the mission risk level exceeds LOW, the
   AC will enter the approval authority's last name (or initials), rank, office symbol and date of
   approval in the appropriate signature block at the bottom of the manual worksheet. For the
   web application, a one-time entry will be required for the risk factor(s) requiring approval.
   3.5. Post Mission Actions. All hard copy AMC AvORM worksheets, regardless of score,
   will be collected post-mission by the squadron. Upon return to home station, units will
   upload all worksheets scored HIGH or SEVERE to the AMC AvORM web application.
   When the unit uploads the manual AMC AvORM worksheet to the web application after
   mission completion, a short comment in the “CJCS Priority” comments block, should state
   “uploaded post mission for, AC name” (i.e. “uploaded post mission for Capt John Doe”).
   Units are strongly encouraged to upload any manual worksheet that scored “Low” or
   “Moderate” to improve the AvORM database risk analysis. Wing safety will review the
   AvORM data and provide data to HQ AMC/SE upon request.
4. Aeromedical Evacuation Crew Member RM Worksheet.
   4.1. General. Squadron commanders shall form aircrews based on fragmentation order and
   mission directive, Crew Duty Time (CDT) and Flight Duty Period (FDP) requirements,
   aircrew member qualifications, and other constraints to safely accomplish the mission
   tasking. The Aeromedical Evacuation Crew Member (AE CM) RM Worksheet is located at
8                                                                   AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014


    the AMC/SEF AF portal web-site, AMC AvORM, Current Aviation ORM Documents
    (https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=s6925EC134B
    5F0FB5E044080020E329A9 ). The RM Worksheet is maintained by AMC/A3VM and will
    be completed as directed below for all 618 AOC (TACC)-tasked AE missions. The
    worksheet is a standardized tool for AE missions to identify operational risk and to assist the
    Chief Nurse (CN) in determining the appropriate crew complement based on patient and
    mission requirements. The form is designed to provide an objective, weighted score to assist
    with crew augmentation and supplemental decisions. The tasking C2 agency will be notified
    if the risk score indicates a need for augmentation, supplementation, and any actions taken to
    reduce the risk. C-21 tasked units may modify the worksheet for C-21 missions only. The
    C-21 modified CM RM worksheet must be forwarded to HQ AMC/A3VM for approval prior
    to use.
    4.2. Worksheet Use, Events, Scoring, and Archive. Use the following guidance for AE
    missions to complete the AE CM RM worksheet.
       4.2.1. MSN #. AE Mission number as it appears in GDSS.
       4.2.2. MDS. Aircraft MDS scheduled to perform the mission.
       4.2.3. Itinerary. Enter all ICAO codes for the planned mission.
       4.2.4. Mission Factors. The CN or designee will complete prior to crew entry into crew
       rest for scheduled missions. He/she will complete as soon as mission is established for
       In-System-Select (ISS)/Alert missions. He/she will determine the most appropriate score
       for each item and annotate the score (0, 1, 2 or 3) in the points (PTS) column.
       4.2.5. Aircrew Factors. The CN or designee will complete prior to crew alert. He/she
       will determine the most appropriate score for each item and annotate the score (0, 1, 2 or
       3) in the points (PTS) column.
       4.2.6. Patient Factors. The CN or designee will complete prior to crew alert. He/she will
       determine the most appropriate score for each item, annotate the score (0, 1, 2 or 3) in the
       points (PTS) column and tally the points for section one, two and three.
       4.2.7. Mission Approval Authority. If mission RM calculates to a LOW risk level, the
       Medical Crew Director (MCD) will verify and sign at crew briefing. When mission
       AECM RM calculates to a MODERATE or higher level, the CN will determine the
       appropriate crew complement to reduce the risk level. If the AECM RM score calculates
       to a MODERATE or a higher level after crew complement revisions, the CN/MCD will
       route the RM worksheet to the appropriate level for approval. If 618 AOC (TACC)
       approval is needed, a verbal confirmation and electronic message are required from the
       618 AOC (TACC) Senior Director or General Officer.
       4.2.8. Human Factors. The CN/MCD will complete during administrative duties of the
       crew brief. Each AECM will complete a self-assessment using their personal checklist
       insert. The MCD will annotate the highest crew member risk factor score in section 4,
       HUMAN FACTORS. An AECM has the option to request removal from a mission due
       to elevated risk factors. An AECM may also be removed by the MCD due to elevated
       risk factors. If an AECM is removed from the mission, the MCD will consult with the
AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014                                                                         9


     CN to determine crew compliment.          The 618 AOC (TACC) will be contacted and
     notified of actions taken.
     4.2.9. AE Approval Authority.
         4.2.9.1. Overall score or highest individual event in the LOW range – MCD signature
         required.
         4.2.9.2. Overall score or highest individual event in the MODERATE range - one
         time approval and signature required by CN or squadron flight order authenticating
         official or equivalent.
         4.2.9.3. Overall score or highest individual event in the HIGH range-approval and
         signature required by squadron commander.
         4.2.9.4. Overall score or highest individual event in the SEVERE range-approval and
         signature required by operations group commander or equivalent.
     4.2.10. After completion of RM worksheet, MCD will retain the original and leave a
     copy with the squadron/flight prior to mission launch.
     Note: If Mission, Aircrew, or Patient factors change after crew show, recalculate
     appropriate areas.

  4.3. Post-Mission Worksheet Collection. All completed RM worksheets will be collected by
  the squadron post-mission and in coordination with Wing Safety. RM data will be made
  available to AMC upon request. RM data will be analyzed at the AMC level as part of a
  continuous process improvement program. It is recommended that three (3) months of hard
  copy forms be kept on file at the squadron level if not completed through the web
  application. Electronic data, once available, will be retained for the life of the program or as
  determined by HQ AMC/SEF.




                                            PAUL R. MURPHY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Director of Safety
 10                                                              AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety & Occupational Health Management and Risk Management, 2
February 2012
AFI 90-802, Risk Management,11 February 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 29 August 2013
AFPAM 90-803, Risk Management (RM) Guidelines and Tools, 11 February 2013
U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Railroad Administration Final Report, “Analysis of
the Relationship between Operator Effectiveness Measures and Economic Impacts of Rail
Accidents”, May 2011
Ryan P. Beshany, Naval Postgraduate School, , “Analysis of Navy Flight Scheduling Methods
Using Flyawake”, September 2009
Aviation, Space, and Environmental Medicine • Vol. 75, No. 3, Section II • “Fatigue Models for
Applied Research in Warfighting”, March 2004
Prescribed Forms
AMC Form 901, AMC Aviation ORM Feedback
AMC Form 902, Change Request (CR)
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AC—Aircraft Commander
AE—Aeromedical Evacuation
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMCI—Air Mobility Command Instruction
AOC—Air and Space Operations Center
ARM—Aeromedical Readiness Missions
AvORM—Aviation Operational Risk Management
C2—Command and Control
AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014                        11


CN—Chief Nurse
CR—Change Request
DDO—Deputy Director of Operations
FN—Flight Nurses
GDSS—Global Decision Support System
HQ—Headquarters
I.E.—id est (that is to say)
ISS—In-System-Select
MCD—Medical Crew Director
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PTS—Points
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SQ—Squadron
618 AOC (TACC)—Tanker Airlift Control Center
 12                                                            AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014


                                      Attachment 2
            MISSION EFFECTIVENESS (FATIGUE MODELING) GRAPH

A2.1. Mission Effectiveness Fatigue Graph
   A2.1.1. Purpose. This attachment describes the Aviation ORM (AvORM) Mission
   Effectiveness (ME) Fatigue Graph as a situational awareness and fatigue countermeasure
   tool. The graph is available through the AvORM web application for all GDSS account
   holders involved in AMC mission operations, to include mission planners, managers, unit
   supervisors and aircrews.

Figure A2.1. Mission Effectiveness Fatigue Graph.




   A2.1.2. General. IAW the Air Force Safety Strategic Plan, 2008-2012, AMC has developed
   an AvORM tool for mishap prevention, with an increased focus on Human Factor awareness.
   On-going efforts throughout DoD have resulted in a fatigue countermeasures (CM) modeling
   tool that supports fatigue awareness and risk mitigation strategies in daily aviation
   operations. The CM tool displays chronological points along a mission timeline where
   fatigue “crunch points” (ME low points) could pose a human performance risk when
   combined with the other AvORM risk factors. Current fatigue research does not support
   it as a stand-alone Go/No-Go decision making tool, but it is a vital component of a
   multidimensional, comprehensive risk management process.
   A2.1.3. Background. A Proven, DoD fatigue modeling tool since 2007, several AMC units
   have been actively using the FlyAwake for Windows modeling tool to assist in scheduling
   operations. FlyAwake uses the Sleep, Activity, Fatigue, and Task Effectiveness (SAFTE)
   model, developed by DoD using 15 years of extensive research from Walter Reed Army
   Institute of Research and used as a mishap investigation tool to assess fatigue as a
   contributing or causal factor. The SAFTE model provides an estimation of vulnerability to
AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014                                                                      13


  make mistakes (not a prediction of actually making them) caused by unsuitable sleep/work
  cycles, resulting in the potential ability to better optimize operational planning and
  management. Its cognitive effectiveness estimate is based on an individual requiring 8 hours
  of good quality sleep per 24 hours to maintain optimal effectiveness. For more detailed
  modeling information, see the official FlyAwake website ( https://www.flyawake.org )
  A2.1.4. Functionality. The next generation of AvORM includes a sleep/work mission
  effectiveness fatigue model as a reference tool to supplement the Mobility Air Force (MAF)
  Mission AvORM Worksheet. This model utilizes real-time Global Decision Support System
  (GDSS) data to dynamically evaluate sleep/work cycles and aircrew circadian rhythm, in
  correlation to critical flight phases within a flight duty period (FDP). It accounts for
  circadian shifts due to trans-meridian crossings and provides a representation of local
  day/night based on geographic location. Specifically developed for AvORM, the ME Graph
  tool, (Version 2.9 and higher) will recognize crew augmentation per GDSS data and
  automatically account for predicted in-flight crew rest within each augmented FDP.
     A2.1.4.1. The ME Graph is not a stand-alone Go/No-Go decision making tool. The
     effectiveness line displayed represents an aggregated effectiveness of the primary crew
     (basic or augmented) – it does NOT reflect individual cognitive effectiveness. Individual
     effectiveness will vary based on individual workloads, in-flight rest periods and sleep
     cycles.
     A2.1.4.2. ME Graph Data Inputs. The graph uses current GDSS-associated mission data
     to calculate its display. The graph is updated based on the latest GDSS data each time it
     is opened. With AvORM version 2.9 and higher, mission schedule changes such as
     takeoff delays, etc. will be automatically reflected the next time the graph is opened for
     viewing. Based on available GDSS data, the graph displays critical phases of flight
     (takeoff, aerial events such as airdrop or air refueling, and landing), to increase mission
     awareness for all users throughout the mission planning and execution timelines.
     A2.1.4.3. Effectiveness Thresholds. The reference effectiveness thresholds on the web
     application graph are the thresholds (77.5% and 70% effectiveness) used in the SAFTE
     model to estimate individual effectiveness thresholds. Although established as an
     individual’s cognitive effectiveness, these thresholds provide awareness as a reference to
     the aggregated aircrew line, whether a primary crew of a C-21 or C-37, or a much larger
     C-5 crew. The graph is designed to identify specific areas (crunch points) for
     planning/staff agencies to concentrate preemptive fatigue mitigation strategies such as
     mission timing adjustment, aircrew augmentation, etc. It also allows the aircrew to assess
     and apply appropriate strategies (inflight naps, caffeine use, etc.) for continued fatigue
     mitigation.
         A2.1.4.3.1. The 77.5% effectiveness line (separation between green and yellow
         zones), was developed from U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Railroad
         Administration (FRA) research studies which revealed that an accident’s cost was
         nearly five times higher if below this line, and four times lower when effectiveness
         was greater than 90%. The accident probability increased by 42% when effectiveness
         was below this threshold; compared to a 30% decrease when above 90%. However,
         as mentioned in paragraph 1.4.1., individual effectiveness will vary based on
         individual workloads, in-flight rest periods and sleep cycles.
14                                                                AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014


         A2.1.4.3.2. The 70% effectiveness line is considered by the FRA to be the “action
         line” for regulatory purposes, below which fatigue risks should be mitigated. Below
         the 70.0% effectiveness line (transition from yellow to orange zone), the accident
         probability increased by 62% and the cost was four times higher because subjects had
         a notable decreased ability to engage in logical decision making and were more
         susceptible to missing caution and warning cues. Additionally, subjects showed an
         increase in attention lapses and involuntary micro-sleep episodes. Again, as stated in
         paragraph 1.4.1, individual effectiveness will vary based on individual workloads, in-
         flight rest periods and sleep cycles.
  A2.1.5. Mission Planning and Execution. The AvORM ME Graph is an important tool for
  planners and aircrew alike, graphically depicting a mission chronology against a cognitive
  effectiveness reference scale.
     A2.1.5.1. Mission planners and unit schedulers. Once released in GDSS, the ME Graph
     provides a visual predictive display for the selected mission and its associated flight duty
     periods (FDPs). With AvORM version 2.9 and higher, the display will use an aircrew’s
     current circadian rhythm alignment (or as selected), planned FDP duration and mission
     flight and ground times (with a scheduled, estimated or actual order of precedence) as
     key factors in the ME graph’s modeling calculations to help align the schedule as much
     as possible with the aircrew’s circadian rhythm.
     A2.1.5.2. Mission managers and supervisors. During mission execution with AvORM
     version 2.9 and higher, scheduling changes in GDSS due to user, maintenance, weather,
     etc., will be reflected near instantaneously on the ME graph, to include an alert
     functionality if fatigue is forecasted to be a significant factor (high or severe) to overall
     risk scores for a particular FDP. Additionally, mission managers will have supporting
     modeling information about follow-on mission fatigue when considering changes to a
     crew’s previously scheduled ground and crew rest periods.
     A2.1.5.3. Aircraft Commanders (ACs). IAW AFI 11-2MDS Volume 3, Chapter 2, ACs
     are vested with the authority to accomplish the assigned mission and are responsible for
     the welfare of aircrew members and the safe accomplishment of the mission. The ME
     graph is specifically designed to indicate mission flight time, critical phases of flight and
     ground times over the course of a given Flight Duty Period with respect to the assigned
     crew’s circadian rhythm and modeled effectiveness. This display provides a new
     standard of human performance situational awareness for ACs to use in directing their
     crew’s work/rest cycles to best mitigate the impact of fatigue and safely accomplish the
     assigned mission. Aircrew will continue to use the self-assessment worksheet found on
     the back of the AvORM checklist or the electronic self-assessment checklist found on the
     AvORM web application.
  A2.1.6. Summary. The information presented in the AvORM Mission Effectiveness Fatigue
  Graph has been available to USAF personnel since 2007, and has been used via USAF Safety
  channels for over a decade. This same model was adapted and enhanced in AvORM as a
  powerful tool for increasing awareness of the predicted mission effectiveness of the human
  system within AMC. This predictive information is not to be used as a stand-alone decision
  making input, but rather as part of a multidimensional, comprehensive risk management program.
AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014                                                                      15


                                       Attachment 3
                               CHANGE REVIEW BOARD

A3.1. INTRODUCTION
  A3.1.1. Background. The AMC Aviation Operational Risk Management (AvORM)
  Program was developed to create a command-wide standardized process to quickly and
  simply assess the risk of our flying missions; provide a common language between aircrew,
  execution and planning and provide leadership with the right visibility to assume, mitigate or
  reject risk in operating our missions. The overall AvORM goal is successful mission
  accomplishment while eliminating unnecessary risks. This document outlines the AMC
  AvORM Change Review Board concept of operation to identify, review, analyze, prioritize
  and approve necessary changes and revisions of the AvORM Program.
  A3.1.2. Referenced Documents. This document refers to Aviation Operational Risk
  Management AMCI as a frame of reference for the programs’ description. The AvORM
  Worksheet is referenced as a tool for risk assessment and authorization.
  A3.1.3. Stakeholders. This document refers to AvORM stakeholders, which includes the
  Risk Factor Level as described in AMC AvORM. Stakeholders include; initial planners (618
  AOC (TACC) and wings), wing current operations, squadron supervision, aircrews assisted
  by flight managers, and respective leadership.
  A3.1.4. AMC AvORM Change Review Board (CRB) Objective. The Change Review Board
  will provide a forum and process to periodically review, validate and modify the AMC
  AvORM Program capabilities and prioritize solutions to meet the capability shortfalls.
  A3.1.5. Scope. The operation of the AvORM Change Review Board will extend across all
  618 AOC (TACC)/JOSAC/CVAM-tasked airlift, air refueling and aeromedical missions.
  A3.1.6. Sponsor. AMC Commander
A3.2. MEMBERSHIP AND ADVISORS
  A3.2.1. Membership. The following organizations will designate primary members of the
  AvORM Change Review Board: AMC SE; SEF; A3V; A3T; A3C; 18 AF/A3; One planning
  representative from either 618 AOC (TACC)/XOO, XOG or XOP; 618 AOC (TACC)/XOC;
  AFRC/SEF, NGB/SEF, and PACAF/SEF. In the absence or disability of the primary
  members these organizations will also designate secondary board members to ensure quorum
  participation. All board members possess power to vote.
  A3.2.2. Advisors. The following organizations will serve as advisors to the CRB and may
  participate in any of the board capabilities if requested: AMC/A4; AMC/A5/8; AMC/A6; 618
  AOC (TACC)/XONI. In addition, any organizations that provide specific areas of expertise
  or have a stake in the process may also be an advisor to the board.
A3.3. CHANGE REQUEST ORIGIN, JUSTIFICATION, AND PRIORITIZATION
  A3.3.1. Origin of Change Requests. Change requests on Aviation Operational Risk
  Management Program capabilities will be submitted to the CRB by the AvORM Program
  Manager and AvORM analysts based on direct feedback from AvORM stakeholders (Initial
  Planners (TACC and wings), wing current operations, squadron supervision, aircrew and
16                                                              AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014


  respective leadership) and analyzed by the Wing Chiefs of Safety and 618 AOC (TACC)
  Directorate POCs.
  A3.3.2. Justification of Change Requests. The CRB will review change requests that
  address issues in regard to the AMC AvORM
     A3.3.2.1. Process
     A3.3.2.2. Policies/procedures/regulations (e.g., AvORM AMCI)
     A3.3.2.3. Tool application (e.g. Manual Excel Worksheet or Automated AvORM Tool)
     A3.3.2.4. Human resources
     A3.3.2.5. Environment
     A3.3.2.6. Communication flow. Change requests will be justified if they have a
     potential to contribute to the improvement of the AvORM Program capabilities, such as:
         A3.3.2.6.1. Accuracy
         A3.3.2.6.2. Simplicity
         A3.3.2.6.3. Clarity
         A3.3.2.6.4. Comprehensiveness
         A3.3.2.6.5. Proactive/reactive responsiveness
         A3.3.2.6.6. Flexibility
         A3.3.2.6.7. Stability
         A3.3.2.6.8. Standardization
         A3.3.2.6.9. Risk Mitigation
         A3.3.2.6.10. Historical Data Collection
         A3.3.2.6.11. Risk Predictive Power
     Note: Change requests that do not directly address the AvORM Program capabilities will
     be withdrawn from the CRB revision.

  A3.3.3. Prioritization of Change Requests. The CRB will prioritize change requests
  according to an impact upon the AvORM stakeholders, equipment and tasked mission and
  immediacy of required actions. The three types of change request priorities are: Urgent,
  Moderate and Routine.
     A3.3.3.1. Urgent priority will be assigned to the change requests that if not resolved may
     impose immediate danger to human lives, equipment, and/or mission execution. Urgent
     priority requires immediate response from the CRB (see Atch 3, para 5.2).
     A3.3.3.2. Moderate priority will be assigned to the change requests that require
     preventative maintenance of the AvORM Program (e.g., corrections of the AvORM
     worksheet that may improve the accuracy of risk assessment). For the description of
     actions required by the CRB see Atch 3, para 5.2 of this document.
AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014                                                                      17


     A3.3.3.3. Routine priority will be assigned to the change requests that require routine
     and preventive maintenance of the AvORM Program (e.g., AvORM process flow
     revisions). For the description of actions required by the CRB see Atch 3, para 5.2 of this
     document.
A3.4. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
  A3.4.1. Chairman. The chairman will provide oversight for all CRB decisions. In the
  absence of the chairman a designated vice chair will also have such powers and perform such
  duties as the AvORM CRB may determine. The AvORM CRB Chairman, AMC/SE, will
  conduct CRB meetings and lead discussions to review the changes and revisions submitted
  for the agenda.
  A3.4.2. AvORM Program Manager. The AvORM Program Manager, AMC/SEF, will
  oversee the AMC AvORM Program and will manage program priorities, act as a catalyst to
  resolve project problems/conflicts, and escalate when necessary. They will assess strengths
  and weaknesses of program capabilities, and serve as the overall AMC AvORM expert. The
  program manager will analyze stakeholder feedback received from the Wing Chiefs of Safety
  and 618 AOC (TACC) Directorate POCs. He/she will also complete the Change Request
  (CR) Forms (see AMC Form 902, Change Request ) and submit the CR forms to the CRB
  chairman on a monthly basis or as determined by the CRB. The program manager is
  responsible for conducting the CRB meetings to include discussions and proposed action
  items and distribution of meeting notes to all CRB members within 72 hours after the held
  meeting.
  A3.4.3. AMC AvORM Stakeholders
     A3.4.3.1. Initial Planners. Initial planners plan tasked missions, assess known risks and
     complete the Initial Planner column in the AvORM worksheet. These stakeholders will
     provide feedback on the application of the AvORM worksheet and the AvORM Program
     overall. They will be encouraged to use the AMC AvORM Feedback Form (see AMC
     Form 901, AMC Aviation ORM Feedback) and submit it to the Wing Chiefs of Safety or
     618 AOC (TACC) Directorate POCs. In the absence of the feedback form, the
     stakeholders will submit their feedback via other means (e.g., e-mail:
     orm.amc.se@us.af.mil).
     A3.4.3.2. Wing Current Operations. Wing current operations representatives assess
     known risks and complete the Current Operations column in the AvORM worksheet.
     These stakeholders will provide feedback on the application of the AvORM worksheet
     and the AvORM Program overall. They will be encouraged to use the AMC AvORM
     Feedback Form (see AMC Form 901, AMC Aviation ORM Feedback) and submit it to
     the Wing Chiefs of Safety. In the absence of the feedback form, the stakeholders will
     submit their feedback via other means (e.g., e-mail: orm.amc.se@us.af.mil).
     A3.4.3.3. Squadron Supervision. Squadron supervision assesses and authorizes known
     risks and completes the SQ column in the AvORM worksheet. These stakeholders will
     provide feedback on the application of the AvORM worksheet and the AvORM Program
     overall. They will be encouraged to use the AMC AvORM Feedback Form (see AMC
     Form 901, AMC Aviation ORM Feedback) and submit it to the Wing Chiefs of Safety.
18                                                              AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014


     In the absence of the feedback form, the stakeholders will submit their feedback via other
     means (e.g., e-mail: orm.amc.se@us.af.mil).
     A3.4.3.4. Aircrews and Aircraft Commanders. Aircrews assess known risks and
     complete the Aircrew column in the AvORM worksheet. Aircraft commanders calculate
     total risk score and serve as a final go/no go risk authority. Aircrews and aircraft
     commanders will provide feedback on the application of the AvORM worksheet and the
     AvORM Program overall. They will be encouraged to use the AMC AvORM Feedback
     Form (see AMC Form 901, AMC Aviation ORM Feedback). Aircraft commanders file a
     copy of the feedback form with their owning squadron or the nearest command and
     control agency. In the absence of the feedback form, the stakeholders will submit their
     feedback via other means (e.g., e-mail: orm.amc.se@us.af.mil).
  A3.4.4. Wing Chiefs of Safety. Wing Chiefs of Safety will serve as the AvORM expert and
  provide initial and recurrent training on AMC AvORM Program. Wing Chiefs of Safety will
  collect the feedback forms from stakeholders and e-mail the forms to orm.amc.se@us.af.mil
  on a monthly basis or as determined by the CRB.
  A3.4.5. AvORM Analysts. AvORM analysts will be the CRB members who analyze
  feedback forms from 618 AOC (TACC) Directorate POCs and other AvORM users. They
  will analyze change requests for trends and submit Change Request Forms (see AMC Form
  902, Change Request) to the CRB Chairman on a monthly basis or as determined by the
  CRB.
  A3.4.6. AvORM IT (Information Technology). The AvORM IT point of contact from A6I
  will serve as the technology expert for the AvORM Program application will provide
  recommendations on AvORM Program application as requested by the AvORM Change
  Review Board.
A3.5. MEETINGS
  A3.5.1. Scheduling and Attendance. The AvORM CRB will meet as determined by the
  AMC/SEF program manager. The meetings will be held in person and video/telephone
  conference for geographically separated members. The CRB meetings will typically be
  limited to the CRB members and individuals invited by the board chairman to discuss
  specific change requests (e.g., technological issues). The presence of the board chairman or
  designated representative is required. The program manager will send the agenda of changes
  being considered a day before the scheduled meeting.
  A3.5.2. Action Items.
     A3.5.2.1. CRB approvals. Decisions upon change requests will be determined by polling
     the members of the board. Affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum in attendance at
     the CRB meeting will determine acceptance of a proposed change to the AvORM
     Program. The CRB will develop an implementation plan (action items, responsible office
     and suspense dates) for the necessary changes and revisions of the AvORM Program.
     The CRB recommendations will be reflected in the submitted Change Request Form (see
     AMC Form 902, Change Request). The board will notify AvORM Stakeholders of any
     accepted changes and/or revisions. The CRB activities are based on the requested
     changes generated from the AvORM stakeholders’ feedback. Change request priority
     identifies urgency and order of the CRB actions.
AMCI90-903 26 JUNE 2014                                                                      19


     A3.5.2.2. CRB response to the change requests with urgent priority. If the requested
     change priority is urgent the AvORM Program Manager contacts the CRB Chairman and
     notifies the latter of the urgent request. As a collaborative effort they create an
     immediate solution plan and communicate it to the originating stakeholders. This
     immediate solution plan is typically of temporary nature and requires follow up and long
     term action plan, which will be proposed by the AvORM Program Manager and reviewed
     at the nearest scheduled CRB. The CRB will identify the suspense dates and be
     responsible for the follow up and long term plan implementation actions. After the
     proposed actions are implemented, the AvORM stakeholders will be notified of the
     change and will be encouraged to provide feedback on AvORM revisions.
     A3.5.2.3. CRB response to the change requests with moderate or routine priority. If the
     requested change priority is moderate or routine the CRB will review requests with
     moderate priority first. If the proposed request is approved the CRB will review the
     corrective action plan proposed by the AvORM program manager. The CRB will
     identify the suspense date and will be responsible for the change implementation. After
     the proposed actions are implemented, the AvORM stakeholders will be notified of the
     change and will be encouraged to provide feedback on AvORM revisions. Change
     requests of routine priority will be reviewed by the CRB after change requests with
     higher priorities. If the requested change is approved, the preventive action plan prepared
     by the AvORM program manager will be reviewed. The CRB will identify suspense
     dates and will be responsible for the change implementation. After the proposed actions
     are implemented, the AvORM stakeholders will be notified of the change and will be
     encouraged to provide feedback on AvORM revisions.
