BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                    AMC INSTRUCTION 21-119
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                                3 NOVEMBER 2003
                                                               Incorporating Change 1, 30 December 2006

                                                                                              Maintenance

                                                                   CORROSION CONTROL PROGRAM


                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AMC/A4MJS                                                           Certified by: HQ AMC/A4MA
                                                                                    (Col. Gerald J. Frisbee)
Supersedes AMCI 21-119, 1 September 1999                                                         Pages: 16

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment
Maintenance, and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-105, Air and Space Equipment Structural Maintenance.
This instruction establishes Air Mobility Command (AMC) standards, procedures, and policies for air-
craft and aerospace ground equipment (AGE) corrosion abatement programs. It provides guidance and
direction to develop an effective corrosion prevention, treatment, and management program. This instruc-
tion applies to all AMC and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Reserve Associate units that maintain
aircraft, munitions, support equipment, Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE), avionics and training
equipment. Contractor and civil service maintenance functions shall comply with this instruction as spec-
ified in the contract performance work statement (PWS). All applicable Maintenance Squadrons (MXS),
Equipment Maintenance Squadrons (EMS), Component Maintenance Squadrons (CMS), and Aircraft
Maintenance Squadrons (AMXS) will maintain a current electronic or paper copy of this instruction.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This interim change 2006-01 to AMCI 21-119 provides updates for aircraft corrosion control, updates to
office symbols, technical references, and policy for deployed aircraft. A bar (|) indicates changes since the
last edition.


1. Philosophy.
   1.1. Corrosion has a direct impact on the readiness of Air Force systems. It must be prevented, iden-
   tified, and repaired as prudently as possible.
   1.2. Corrosion minimization on Air Force aircraft and ground equipment is the direct responsibility of
   all users and maintainers. Due consideration must be given to corrosion prevention during all plan-
   ning, operation, and maintenance actions.
2                                                                    AMCI21-119 3 NOVEMBER 2003


    1.3. The AMC corrosion management program is oriented towards prevention. This is accomplished
    through equipment cleaning, maintenance of protective coatings, and early detection and treatment of
    corrosion. Strict adherence to corrosion prevention policies and technical orders is essential.
    1.4. All aircraft and ground equipment users and maintainers must attend periodic corrosion preven-
    tion and identification training as defined in chapter 14 of this instruction. Awareness is the key to an
    effective corrosion management program.

2. Policies and Procedures.
    2.1. Crossflow of information is essential for a successful program. All program managers are autho-
    rized direct communication with their counterparts (MAJCOM and ALC program managers) on any
    matter pertaining to the AMC corrosion management program, within the parameters of local
    chain-of-command policies.
    2.2. All maintenance and operations personnel, regardless of AFSC, are responsible to document
    potentially corroded structures/components in the proper maintenance forms. The structural mainte-
    nance work center evaluates corrosion discrepancies to determine proper treatment or repair. The list
    of publications at Attachment 1 is provided to ensure personnel are aware of applicable procedural
    documents.
    2.3. It is not economically feasible to remove corrosion from common hardware (screws, nuts, etc.),
    therefore, replace corroded hardware as necessary in accordance with applicable technical data.
    2.4. Corrosive Chemical Contamination Guidance:
       2.4.1. When a chemical leak or spill occurs aboard an AMC aircraft, immediately notify the fire
       department and local hazardous material spill response team. The first maintenance person on the
       scene will immediately annotate the aircraft forms with type of chemical (if known) and contami-
       nation area.
           2.4.1.1. After neutralization, immediately notify the aircraft structural maintenance element to
           perform a comprehensive corrosion inspection of the affected area.
       2.4.2. Thoroughly clean aircraft and equipment contaminated with fire extinguishing materials as
       soon as possible after exposure in accordance with TO 1-1-691, Cleaning and Corrosion Preven-
       tion and Control, Aerospace and Non-Aerospace Equipment, Chapter 8.
       2.4.3. Substances such as soft drinks, household cleaning detergents, and other commonly avail-
       able chemicals, must be properly cleaned immediately if spilled in or on aircraft metal compo-
       nents. Common sense and prudent cleaning/rinsing are critical elements of the corrosion
       prevention program.
    2.5. Protective Coating Maintenance:
       2.5.1. Maintenance painting is defined as the application of coatings to aerospace equipment
       where the existing coating system is deteriorated or missing. Maintenance painting must be kept to
       a minimum and must comply with federal, state, and local environmental regulations. Mainte-
       nance painting of aircraft accomplished solely for cosmetics is highly discouraged because of
       environmental and coating thickness restrictions.
AMCI21-119 3 NOVEMBER 2003                                                                                 3


          2.5.1.1. All touch-up painting will be accomplished from seam-to-seam, and will be masked
          at the edges. Where a seam is not reasonably accessible, a “simulated” seam may be created.
          No unmasked spray touch-up is authorized.
              2.5.1.1.1. SEMPENs and paintbrush application methods are the preferred means of
              touching-up minor scratches and fastener heads. Prepackaged aerosol paint cans will not
              be used to touch up any type of defect on aircraft or ground equipment.
              2.5.1.1.2. Atomized spray, paint brushing, and rolling are authorized methods for paint
              application. Units limited by local environmental restrictions should maximize the use of
              brushing and rolling techniques. Coating film thickness must be carefully monitored when
              using these methods.
          2.5.1.2. Units equipped with environmentally compliant aircraft painting facilities and ade-
          quate manpower may perform complete overcoating of aircraft with AMC/A4M approval.
          2.5.1.3. Aircraft paint data placards must not be permanently removed. When complete over-
          coats are accomplished, the paint data on the old placard will be annotated on the AFTO Form
          95, Significant Historical Data, and a new placard with new data will be applied.
          2.5.1.4. When large portions of aircraft are repainted (i.e. full wing, large portions of fuselage,
          flight controls, etc.), the AFTO Form 95 will be annotated with type of paint and exact loca-
          tion.
          2.5.1.5. Primer cure time before topcoating is critical to the effectiveness of the final coating.
          Do not apply the topcoat until the primer has dried the allotted time per TO 1-1-8 or the man-
          ufacturer’s instructions.
          2.5.1.6. Complete overcoating of AGE/support equipment may be accomplished only when
          necessary to prevent or repair corrosion.

3. HQ AMC/A4MJ Responsibilities:
   3.1. Office of primary responsibility (OPR) for providing oversight and ensuring AMC has a viable
   aircraft and ground equipment corrosion management program.
   3.2. Support the Air Force Corrosion Prevention and Control Office (CPCO) by participating in
   equipment evaluations, corrosion program managers meetings, advisory boards, executive counsel
   meetings, and field surveys. Coordinates with Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) and commercial
   vendors on the development and testing of corrosion control techniques and material.
   3.3. Represent AMC aircraft structural maintenance work centers at DOD/Air Force conferences and
   meetings.
   3.4. Represent AMC at corrosion prevention advisory boards (CPAB) for assigned weapon systems,
   and participates in corrosion investigations pursuant to CPAB goals.
      3.4.1. Advocate AMC maintenance unit attendance and active participation at weapon sys-
      tem-specific CPABs.
   3.5. Ensure adequate corrosion control training is current and available for all aircraft and AGE main-
   tenance personnel.
4                                                                    AMCI21-119 3 NOVEMBER 2003


       3.5.1. Represent AMC at 2A7X3 utilization and training workshops (U&TW). Provide corrosion
       and structural input to career field managers in all maintenance AFSCs.
       3.5.2. Participate in corrosion identification and repair course development at the MAJCOM/Air
       Force level.
    3.6. Develop and issue technical and administrative instructions on the AMC corrosion management
    program.

4. Wing Commander’s (or equivalent) Responsibilities.
    4.1. Ensure all operators and maintainers remain cognizant of the adverse effects of corrosion, and
    actively pursue ways to reduce the occurrence of corrosion on assigned equipment.

5. Maintenance Group Commander’s (or equivalent) Responsibilities:
    5.1. Establish and maintain an effective corrosion prevention and control program.
    5.2. Appoint a wing corrosion manager in writing.
    5.3. Appoint personnel authorized to sign-off contract washes.
    5.4. Ensure proper facilities, training, materials, and personnel are dedicated to combating corrosion.
    5.5. Ensure adequate wash facilities are available year-round. This may be accomplished in any way
    deemed prudent for the locale and mission of the unit.
    5.6. Appoint an aircraft wash facility manager to provide continuity and ensure proper equipment and
    materials are maintained at the facility.
    5.7. Ensure cleaning cycles are maintained IAW TO 1-1-691, and revised as necessary based on
    changes in mission and location.

6. Wing Corrosion Manager’s Responsibilities.
    6.1. Organize, direct, and manage the wing/group corrosion management program according to: AFI
    21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management ; AFI 21-105, Air and Space Equipment
    Structural Maintenance; TO 1-1-691, Cleaning and Corrosion Prevention and Control, Aerospace
    and Non-Aerospace Equipment; TO 1-1-8, Application and Removal of Organic Coatings, Aerospace
    and Non-Aerospace Equipment; TO 1-1-689, Avionic Cleaning and Corrosion Prevention and Con-
    trol, TO 35-1-3, Corrosion Prevention, Painting, and Marking of USAF Support Equipment, applica-
    ble weapon system specific –3 (structural repair manual), -23 (corrosion repair manual), and this
    instruction.
    6.2. Before reassignment or retirement the corrosion manager will ensure their successor is appointed
    early enough to provide an effective turnover of the corrosion program. The outgoing corrosion man-
    ager must confer with the fabrication flight chief and aircraft structural maintenance (ASM) supervi-
    sors to identify a replacement. The formal appointment must be made by the MXG/CC in writing. A
    copy of the new appointment memo will be sent to HQ AMC/A4MJS within 30 days of the appoint-
    ment.
    6.3. Ensure creation of a wing corrosion operating instruction to include, but not limited to the fol-
    lowing:
AMCI21-119 3 NOVEMBER 2003                                                                               5


      6.3.1. Enforce local unit marking requirements, i.e. tail stripes, nose art, (if approved), etc.
      6.3.2. Identify aircraft paint identification placard size, shape and information requirements.
      6.3.3. Develop local aircraft paint and support equipment scoring procedures.
   6.4. Develop and submit comments or recommendations for improvement of the corrosion control
   program to HQ AMC/A4MJS.
   6.5. Compile and submit budget requests to local management for equipment, materials, facilities,
   manpower, and conferences/meetings, which support the corrosion management program.
      6.5.1. Attend DOD, Air Force, and AMC corrosion program managers meetings and workshops.
   6.6. Review and supplement, if necessary, corrosion control work cards for assigned equipment based
   on mission and location.
   6.7. Establish and chair a local corrosion prevention working group to formalize the wing corrosion
   management program. Working groups may meet as frequently as necessary to maintain an effective
   program, but will meet at least annually. This working group should meet approximately 90 days prior
   to the next scheduled applicable weapon system CPAB to formalize action items. Minutes will be
   published and maintained for at least 3 calendar years to establish continuity.
      6.7.1. As a minimum, membership will include the unit corrosion manager, flight line (owning
      unit) maintenance supervisors, ASM supervisors, AGE supervisors, and appropriate quality assur-
      ance evaluators.
      6.7.2. Submit CPAB action items to HQ AMC/A4MJS. Action items may be submitted through-
      out the year and must focus on structural integrity, extended service life, and improved repair tech-
      niques for the weapon system.
      6.7.3. Attend assigned weapon system CPAB or send a qualified representative.
   6.8. Serve as wing corrosion program POC for all outside agencies.
   6.9. Ensure only qualified product list (QPL) authorized wash agents are utilized for overall and spot
   washes. Use of unapproved commercial or household cleaners is strictly prohibited. The current QPL
   is available at the AF Corrosion Prevention and Control Office, https://afcpco.robins.af.mil/ website
   6.10. At units utilizing wash contractors, the wing corrosion manager must be thoroughly familiar
   with contract specifications, applicable technical orders, and inspection/acceptance criteria. The wing
   corrosion manager will coordinate on all new/updated wash contracts.
   6.11. In conjunction with the local Supply/Hazmart pharmacy, ensure only approved QPL’s approved
   for aircraft/aerospace equipment are being used. The following link can be used to access existing
   QPL’s: http://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch/.

7. Aircraft Structural Maintenance (ASM) Element Responsibilities.
   7.1. Recommend a wing corrosion manager to the MXG/CC, through the fabrication flight chief. The
   corrosion manager must be appointed by the MXG/CC in writing. A copy of the appointment memo
   will be sent to HQ AMC/A4MJS, 402 Scott Drive Unit 2A2, Scott AFB IL 62225-5308, within 30
   days of the appointment.
6                                                                   AMCI21-119 3 NOVEMBER 2003


       7.1.1. The wing corrosion manager will be a 2A773, 2A790, or 2A600, or civilian equivalent
       experienced in corrosion prevention and repair.
    7.2. Ensure that only properly trained personnel operate shop corrosion prevention equipment.
    7.3. Ensure 2A7X3 technicians receive adequate training (formal and on-the-job) to accomplish
    assigned tasks. Changes in inspection techniques and advances in equipment technology must be
    properly trained and implemented.
    7.4. Ensure all 2A7X3 personnel performing maintenance in a toxic/hazardous environment properly
    utilize personal protective equipment (PPE).

8. Owning Unit Responsibilities.
    8.1. Appoint a qualified aircraft wash supervisor for each wash.
    8.2. Coordinate and schedule the use of wash rack facilities for other than isochronal/phase washes.
    8.3. Perform washing and cleaning of assigned weapon systems using aircraft wash crews.
    8.4. The wing corrosion manager and owning unit supervisors/managers train and qualify personnel
    on aircraft washing and cleaning. Personnel assigned as wash supervisors, cleanliness inspectors, air-
    craft wash personnel and wash contractor quality assurance evaluators will complete the Aircraft
    Wash Procedures video downloadable from http://www.hill.af.mil/367trss/cat1.htm (under the
    heading of “available courseware” choose “general” then choose the course title).
    8.5. Ensure AMC Form 1017, Aircraft Wash Supervisor and Employee’s Certification, is com-
    pleted once during the initial wash training process and when work processes equipment, materials, or
    conditions change.
    8.6. Ensure a cleanliness inspection of aircraft is accomplished after completion of the aircraft wash,
    using AMC Form 1018, Aircraft Wash Cleanliness Inspection Checklist. An owning work center
    supervisor (production superintendent or dock chief, as appropriate) will sign-off the cleanliness
    inspection. The key is to have supervisory personnel or production inspectors that did not participate
    in the wash perform the cleanliness inspection. Local requirements may be added to the checklist to
    enhance the unit cleanliness program.
       8.6.1. After the cleanliness inspection is completed the inspector clears the AFTO Form 781A,
       Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document, entry for “aircraft cleanliness inspection due
       after wash.”
           8.6.1.1. The isochronal/phase inspection dock supervisor may accomplish the cleanliness
           inspection for isochronal/phase aircraft washes only.
    8.7. The wash supervisor ensures the facility and equipment is cleaned and properly stored at comple-
    tion of each wash.

9. Aircraft Wash Rack Manager’s Responsibilities.
    9.1. Maintain tools, wash equipment, such as carts, hoses, clothing, scrub pads, etc., and facilities
    used during aircraft wash.
    9.2. Coordinate the procurement of aircraft cleaners with the wing corrosion manager to ensure only
    authorized products are used during cleaning operations.
AMCI21-119 3 NOVEMBER 2003                                                                                7


   9.3. Procure and maintain personal protective equipment used during the wash process, and ensure
   the wash facility is kept serviceable by calling in work orders for repairs immediately when discov-
   ered.

10. Avionics Responsibilities.
   10.1. All avionics work sections must be familiar with, and have available for use, TO 1-1-689.
   10.2. When corrosion damage is beyond the capability of the shop, request assistance from the air-
   craft structural maintenance element and the wing corrosion manager.

11. Quality Assurance Responsibilities.
   11.1. Evaluate at least 10 percent of all aircraft washes and at least 10 percent of all AGE washes for
   compliance with applicable technical data.
   11.2. Evaluate the quality of 10 percent of isochronal corrosion inspections.
   11.3. Periodically review wash rack cleaning agents for QPL compliance.
   11.4. Ensure personal protective equipment (PPE) is properly utilized.
   11.5. Contract quality assurance evaluator (QAE) for aircraft washes will evaluate at least 10 percent
   of all aircraft washes. QAE should maintain a file of discrepancies for consideration during contract
   rewrites. If a current contract specifies a different level of inspection than that specified herein, the
   contract will take precedence. Future contracts will incorporate the 10 percent inspection rate as a
   minimum.
       11.5.1. The QAE will use locally developed aircraft wash cleanliness forms and checklists to
       evaluate contract wash compliance.
       11.5.2. Contract washes will be signed off by personnel authorized in writing by the maintenance
       group commander.

12. Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Supervision Responsibilities.
   12.1. AGE and support equipment must be cleaned during each periodic or annual inspection or more
   often as determined by the owning work center supervisor.
   12.2. Ensure AGE work center personnel attend AGE corrosion training.
       12.2.1. The corrosion manager in concert with the AGE supervisor and unit maintenance-training
       manager will develop the corrosion prevention and control training curriculum.
       12.2.2. Corrosion manager and AGE supervisor determine training interval.
   12.3. Owning work center supervisor is responsible for establishing and enforcing an effective corro-
   sion program on assigned AGE and support equipment.
   12.4. Aircraft structural maintenance and AGE supervisors determine repainting requirements.
       12.4.1. Complete overcoating of equipment is accomplished on an as-needed basis. AGE should
       not be overcoated solely for the purpose of cosmetics. A local scoring system should be developed
       to determine the next piece of equipment to receive corrosion preventative maintenance. Equip-
8                                                                     AMCI21-119 3 NOVEMBER 2003


       ment most in need of corrosion preventive measures (not time) should receive priority in the work
       schedule.
    12.5. The use of corrosion preventive compounds (CPC) is encouraged.
       12.5.1. Owning work center personnel may treat small chips in the paint with CPC. Treat larger
       chips in the paint according to T.O. 35-1-3. The aircraft structural maintenance work center or
       commercial vendor treats badly deteriorated or chipped surfaces.
    12.6. Prepackaged aerosol spray paint will not be used to touch up equipment. Coating touch-ups
    must be accomplished with approved materials.
    12.7. AMC AGE SE will be painted IAW T.O. 35-1-3.

13. Aircraft Cleaning.
    13.1. A complete exterior and interior cleaning will be accomplished on all aircraft as directed by TO
    1-1-691 and weapon system-specific technical data. This will be accomplished during scheduled wash
    cycles, before isochronal or phase inspections, and prior to refurbishments.
       13.1.1. The following forms entries, as a minimum, are required for an aircraft wash:
           13.1.1.1. “Aircraft wash required.” Enter this in the forms on a red dash. It is cleared by the
           owning unit aircraft wash supervisor.
           13.1.1.2. “Aircraft taped and prepped for wash.” Enter this in the forms on a red X prior to the
           wash. It is cleared by the appropriate inspector after the aircraft has been detaped, all associ-
           ated equipment, such as wheel covers and related tasks are accomplished, and the cleanliness
           inspection has been completed and signed-off.
           13.1.1.3. “Aircraft post-wash cleanliness inspection due.” Enter this in the forms on a red dash
           prior to the wash. It is cleared by the owning unit maintenance supervisor, production supervi-
           sor, or authorized contractor after completion of the cleanliness inspection.
NOTE: Definition of clean: All references to the condition of “clean” pertain to the following descrip-
tion: To determine if surfaces are clean, a close visual inspection is accomplished to determine that all res-
idue, oily film, and streaking have been removed. If cleanliness is questionable, a dry, lint free, white
towel is wiped firmly across the various surfaces. If excessive soiling of the towel occurs, the surface is
not clean. Wheel wells, flap wells, and exterior surfaces should be inspected using this method.
           13.1.1.4. “Aircraft post-wash lubrication due.”
               13.1.1.4.1. Proper post-wash lubrication is vital in prevention of corrosion. Lubrication
               prevents water intrusion in bearing cavities and subsequent corrosion damage. If techni-
               cians wash components between normal cleaning cycles (flight line or “spot” washes),
               re-lubrication of the affected components is required.
       13.1.2. Units must adhere strictly to the aircraft wash and rinse cycles specified in TO 1-1-691. If
       organizations know in advance that their aircraft or support equipment (AGE) is scheduled to
       deploy, they must ensure aircraft and equipment washes are considered prior to mission deploy-
       ment. If a wash was recently accomplished, owning organization maintenance supervision will
       determine whether another wash is necessary prior to deployment. If deployed to a location where
       wash capability does not exist and a wash is due, enter a red dash in the AFTO form 781A stating,
AMCI21-119 3 NOVEMBER 2003                                                                              9


      “Aircraft wash required upon return to home station.” If a deployed aircraft exceeds the wash due
      date by more than 30 days, inform the AMC Corrosion Manager, AMC/A4MJS, DSN 779-2622.
          13.1.2.1. When determining how long an aircraft must be at a deployed location to require
          them to adopt the deployed location wash interval, follow weapon system specific tech data.
          When a lack of tech data exists, follow Table 1.

Table 1. Deployed Aircraft Wash Schedule (When TO Guidance Does Not Exist)
Home Station      Deployed Area     Initial Wash Due                Subsequent
Corrosion Zone Corrosion Zone                                       Washes Due
Mild              Mild              Original Due Date               Follow Deployed
                                                                    Area Wash Interval
Mild              Moderate          Original Due Date               Follow Deployed
                                                                    Area Wash Interval
Mild              Severe            Original Due Date Or 30 Days    Follow Deployed
                                    After Arrival At The Deployed   Area Wash Interval
                                    Location, Whichever Comes First
Moderate          Mild              Original Due Date Plus 30 Days  Follow Deployed
                                                                    Area Wash Interval
Moderate          Moderate          Original Due Date               Follow Deployed
                                                                    Area Wash Interval
Moderate          Severe            Original Due Date Or 30 Days    Follow Deployed
                                    After Arrival At The Deployed   Area Wash Interval
                                    Location, Whichever Comes First
Severe            Mild              Original Due Date Plus 60 Days  Follow Deployed
                                                                    Area Wash Interval
Severe            Moderate          Original Due Date Plus 30 Days  Follow Deployed
                                                                    Area Wash Interval
Severe            Severe            Original Due Date               Follow Deployed
                                                                    Area Wash Interval
          13.1.2.2. When an aircraft flies over salt water below 3,000 feet, the aircrew debriefing record
          and AFTO Form 781A will be annotated with a “NOTE.” See TO 1-1-691 for complete guid-
          ance. Aircraft properly rinsed in taxi-through, or “bird bath” type facilities, need not comply
          with this requirement.
   13.2. Aircraft latrine/urinal areas must be cleaned thoroughly to avoid corrosion damage due to efflu-
   ent contamination.
   13.3. Interior areas will be dried after washing. Any method, such as low-pressure air, low tempera-
   ture heat, or sponging/mopping, may be used. Standing water in any interior area of the aircraft must
   be removed.
   13.4. Pressurized water washing equipment may be used for aircraft washing IAW TO 1-1-691 and
   manufacturer’s instructions. However, all surfaces must be agitated with an authorized pad or other
   article. Pressure washing alone will not adequately remove contaminants from painted surfaces.
10                                                                    AMCI21-119 3 NOVEMBER 2003


        13.4.1. Lubrication must be accomplished after all pressure washes in accordance with applicable
        technical data.
        13.4.2. All landing gear components will be hand washed and rinsed with low-pressure water.
        Refer to applicable landing gear technical orders for washing instructions.

14. Corrosion Prevention and Control Training.
     14.1. All aircraft maintenance personnel will receive corrosion prevention and identification refresher
     training every 15 months. Training will be a combination of IMI and supplemental training. IMI train-
     ing will consist of the Aircraft Corrosion Control video or Aerospace Corrosion Prevention & Con-
     trol IMI downloadable from http://www.hill.af.mil/367trss/AFSC 2A7X3 (structural maintenance)
     personnel are exempt from periodic corrosion familiarization training. Enroute personnel must
     accomplish the IMI but are exempt from the supplemental training.
     14.2. If group block training method is used, supplemental training is conducted by the corrosion
     manager or designated representative holding a primary AFSC of 2A7X3 or 2A790. If block or
     refresher training is done on an individual basis, the supplemental training should be self supporting;
     such as a short video, PowerPoint presentation, or other medium that the individual can review.
     14.3. The corrosion manager, in conjunction with the unit maintenance-training manager, develops
     formal classroom training curriculum. As a minimum, the curriculum will include:
        14.3.1. Corrosion identification procedures and techniques using the most current available Air
        Force aircraft corrosion visual training aids and information.
        14.3.2. Identification of corrosion prone areas on unit specific weapon systems and equipment.
        14.3.3. Reporting and documentation procedures for identified corrosion.
        14.3.4. Importance of proper selection and use of sealants, corrosion preventive compounds
        (CPC), and lubricants.
        14.3.5. Proper selection and use of all cleaning materials.
     14.4. The corrosion manager periodically updates training material and information with the assis-
     tance of the unit maintenance training manager and information gained from CPABs and corrosion
     manager’s conferences.
     14.5. Periodic corrosion training does not replace normal on-the-job training (OJT) requirements in
     any career field.

15. Forms Prescribed. AMC Form 1017, Aircraft Wash Supervisor and Employee’s Certification,
and AMC Form 1018, Aircraft Wash Cleanliness Inspection Checklist, which are available on the
AMC local area network and the web. Contact AMC Forms Management (HQ AMC/A6YBP) to update
or rescind and for problems accessing these forms.



                                                DANNY STEELE, Colonel, USAF
                                                Deputy Director of Logistics
AMCI21-119 3 NOVEMBER 2003                                                                       11


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance
AFPD 91-3, Occupational Safety and Health
AFI 21-105, Air and Space Equipment Structural Maintenance
AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program
AFI 91-202, The U.S. Air Force Mishap Prevention Program
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH)
Program
AFOSHSTD 48-8, Controlling Exposures to Hazardous Materials
AFOSHSTD 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program
AFOSHSTD 91-17, Interior Spray Finishing
AFOSHSTD 91-68, Chemical Safety
AFOSHSTD 91-66, General Industrial Operations
AFOSHSTD 91-100, Aircraft Flightline-Ground Operations and Activities
AFOSHSTD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard
AFOSHSTD 161-2, Industrial Ventilation
TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding
TO 1-1-8, Application and Removal of Organic Coatings, Aerospace and Non-Aerospace Equipment
TO 1-1-689, Avionics Cleaning and Corrosion Prevention/Control
TO 1-1-690, General Advanced Composite Repair Processes Manual
TO 1-1-691, Cleaning and Corrosion Prevention and Control, Aerospace and Non-Aerospace Equipment
Aircraft Weapon Systems Cleaning and Corrosion Control
TO 31-1-75, General Maintenance Practices
TO 32-1-101, Use and Care of Hand Tools and Measuring Tools
TO 35-1-3, Corrosion Prevention, Painting and Marking of USAF Support Equipment (SE)
AF Corrosion Prevention and Control Office information web, https://afcpco.robins.af.mil/
Aircraft Structural Maintenance Schoolhouse; schedule and description of corrosion courses, https://
www.cnet.navy.mil/cnet/nattc/361trs/
Military Specifications, Handbooks, and most military QPLs, http://stinet.dtic.mil/str/
dodiss4_fields.html
QPL for MIL-PRF-87937, https://afpet.wpafb.af.mil/AFT/specs/
12                                                           AMCI21-119 3 NOVEMBER 2003


QPLs for SAE and AMS specifications, http://www.pri.sae.org/QPL/qpl-list.htm

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ASM—Aircraft Structural Maintenance
CPAB—Corrosion Prevention Advisory Boards
CPC—Corrosion Preventive Compounds
PDM—Periodic Depot Maintenance
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluator
QPL—Qualified Product List
AMCI21-119 3 NOVEMBER 2003                                                                                13


                                              Attachment 2

                IC 2003-1 TO AMCI21-119, CORROSION CONTROL PROGRAM
30 OCTOBER 2003
SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This interim change (IC) 03-1 updates guidance for corrosion training, office symbols, technical refer-
ences and provides policy on deployed aircraft washes.
2.5.1.5. Primer cure time before topcoating is critical to the effectiveness of the final coating. Do not
apply the topcoat until the primer has dried the allotted time per TO 1-1-8 or the manufacturer’s instruc-
tions.
3. HQ AMC/A4M Responsibilities:
5. Maintenance Group Commander’s (or equivalent) Responsibilities:
6.1. Organize, direct, and manage the wing/group corrosion management program according to: AFI
21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management; AFI 21-105, Air and Space Equipment Struc-
tural Maintenance; TO 1-1-691, Aircraft Weapons System Cleaning and Corrosion Control; TO 1-1-8,
Application and Removal of Organic Coatings, Aerospace and Non-Aerospace Equipment; TO 1-1-689,
Avionic Cleaning and Corrosion Prevention and Control, TO 35-1-3, Corrosion Prevention, Painting,
and Marking of USAF Support Equipment, applicable weapon system specific –3 (structural repair man-
ual), -23 (corrosion repair manual), and this instruction.
6.2. Before reassignment or retirement the corrosion manager will ensure their successor is appointed
early enough to provide an effective turnover of the corrosion program. The outgoing corrosion manager
must confer with the fabrication flight chief and aircraft structural maintenance (ASM) supervisors to
identify a replacement. The formal appointment must be made by the MXG/CC in writing. A copy of the
new appointment memo will be sent to HQ AMC/A4MJS within 30 days of the appointment.
6.3. Establish corrosion prevention and control training programs for all aircraft and AGE maintenance
personnel. As a minimum, training will include use of the Aircraft Corrosion Control video or Aerospace
Corrosion Prevention & Control interactive multimedia instruction (IMI), and be supplemented with cor-
rosion information relative to assigned weapons system, support equipment, and local procedures. See
chapter 14.
6.4. Develop and submit comments or recommendations for improvement of the corrosion control pro-
gram to HQ AMC/A4MJS.
 6.7.2. Submit CPAB action items to HQ AMC/A4MJS. Action items may be submitted throughout the
year and must focus on structural integrity, extended service life, and improved repair techniques for the
weapon system.
7.1. Recommend a wing corrosion manager to the MXG/CC, through the fabrication flight chief. The cor-
rosion manager must be appointed by the MXG/CC in writing. A copy of the appointment memo will be
sent to HQ AMC/A4MJS, 402 Scott Drive Unit 2A2, Scott AFB IL 62225-5308, within 30 days of the
appointment.
8.4. The wing corrosion manager and owning unit supervisors/managers train and qualify personnel on
aircraft washing and cleaning. Personnel assigned as wash supervisors, cleanliness inspectors, aircraft
14                                                                  AMCI21-119 3 NOVEMBER 2003


wash personnel and wash contractor quality assurance evaluators will complete the Aircraft Wash Proce-
dures video (previously referred to by PIN # 613890) downloadable from
http://www.hill.af.mil/367trss/cat1.htm (under the heading of “available courseware” choose “general”
then choose the course title).
11.5.2. Contract washes will be signed off by personnel authorized in writing by the maintenance group
commander.
12.7. Semi-gloss green, Fed Std 595 color # 24052, is the standard for AMC AGE equipment. Do not use
gloss green, #14052.
13.1.2. Units must adhere strictly to the aircraft wash and rinse cycles specified in TO 1-1-691. If organi-
zations know in advance that their aircraft or support equipment (AGE) is scheduled to deploy, they must
ensure aircraft and equipment washes are considered prior to mission deployment. If a wash was recently
accomplished, owning organization maintenance supervision will determine whether another wash is nec-
essary prior to deployment. If deployed to a location where wash capability does not exist and a wash is
due, enter a red dash in the AFTO form 781A stating, “Aircraft wash required upon return to home sta-
tion.” If a deployed aircraft exceeds the wash due date by more than 30 days, inform the AMC Corrosion
Manager, AMC/A4MJS, e-mail: mailto:amca4.a4mjs.lst@scott.af.mil.
13.1.2.1. When determining how long an aircraft must be at a deployed location to require them to adopt
the deployed location wash interval, follow weapon system specific tech data. When a lack of tech data
exists, follow Table 1.
Table 1. Deployed Aircraft Wash Schedule (When TO Guidance Does Not Exist)


Home Station        Deployed Area         Initial Wash Due                     Subsequent Washes
Corrosion Zone      Corrosion Zone                                             Due
Mild                Mild                  Original Due Date                    Follow Deployed
                                                                               Area Wash Interval
Mild                Moderate              Original Due Date                    Follow Deployed
                                                                               Area Wash Interval
Mild                Severe                Original Due Date Or 30 Days         Follow Deployed
                                          After Arrival At The Deployed        Area Wash Interval
                                          Location, Whichever Comes First
Moderate            Mild                  Original Due Date Plus 30 Days  Follow Deployed
                                                                          Area Wash Interval
Moderate            Moderate              Original Due Date               Follow Deployed
                                                                          Area Wash Interval
Moderate            Severe                Original Due Date Or 30 Days    Follow Deployed
                                          After Arrival At The Deployed   Area Wash Interval
                                          Location, Whichever Comes First
Severe              Mild                  Original Due Date Plus 60 Days  Follow Deployed
                                                                          Area Wash Interval
Severe              Moderate              Original Due Date Plus 30 Days  Follow Deployed
                                                                          Area Wash Interval
AMCI21-119 3 NOVEMBER 2003                                                                              15


Home Station        Deployed Area         Initial Wash Due                     Subsequent Washes
Corrosion Zone      Corrosion Zone                                             Due
Severe              Severe                Original Due Date                    Follow Deployed
                                                                               Area Wash Interval


14.1. All aircraft maintenance personnel will receive corrosion prevention and identification refresher
training every 15 months. Training will be a combination of IMI and supplemental training. IMI training
will consist of the Aircraft Corrosion Control video (previously referred to by PIN # 614174) or Aero-
space Corrosion Prevention & Control IMI (previously referred to by PIN # 614057) downloadable from
http://www.hill.af.mil/367trss/cat1.htm (under the heading of “available courseware” choose “general”
then choose the course title). AFSC 2A7X3 (structural maintenance) personnel are exempt from periodic
corrosion familiarization training. Enroute personnel must accomplish the IMI but are exempt from the
supplemental training.
14.2. If group block training method is used, supplemental training is conducted by the corrosion manager
or designated representative holding a primary AFSC of 2A7X3 or 2A790. If block or refresher training
is done on an individual basis, the supplemental training should be self supporting; such as a short video,
PowerPoint presentation, or other medium that the individual can review.


15. Forms Prescribed . AMC Form 1017, Aircraft Wash Supervisor and Employee’s Certification,
and AMC Form 1018, Aircraft Wash Cleanliness Inspection Checklist, which are available on the
AMC local area network and the web. Contact AMC Forms Management (HQ AMC/A6YBP) to update
or rescind and for problems accessing these forms.
                                              Attachment 1
              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance
AFPD 91-3, Occupational Safety and Health
AFI 21-105, Aerospace Equipment Structural Maintenance
AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program
AFI 91-202, The U.S. Air Force Mishap Prevention Program
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH)
Program
AFOSH STD 161-2, Industrial Ventilation
AFOSH STD 48-8, Controlling Exposures to Hazardous Materials
AFOSH STD 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program
AFOSH STD 91-17, Interior Spray Finishing
Portable and Fixed Ladders
16                                                                AMCI21-119 3 NOVEMBER 2003


AFOSH STD 91-68, Chemical Safety
AFOSH STD 91-66, General Industrial Operations
AFOSH STD 91-100, Aircraft Flightline-Ground Operations and Activities
AFOSH STD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard
TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding
TO 1-1-8, Application and Removal of Organic Coatings, Aerospace and Non-Aerospace Equipment
TO 1-1-691, Aircraft Weapon Systems Cleaning and Corrosion Control
TO 1-1-690, General Advanced Composite Repair Processes Manual
TO 31-1-75, General Maintenance Practices
TO 32-1-101, Use and Care of Hand Tools and Measuring Tools
https://afcpco.robins.af.mil/ AF Corrosion Prevention and Control Office information web
https://www.cnet.navy.mil/cnet/nattc/361trs/ Aircraft Structural Maintenance Schoolhouse; schedule
and description of corrosion courses
http://stinet.dtic.mil/str/dodiss4_fields.html Military Specifications, Handbooks, and most military
QPLs
https://afpet.wpafb.af.mil/AFT/specs/ QPL for MIL-PRF-87937
http://www.pri.sae.org/QPL/qpl-list.htm QPLs for SAE and AMS specifications
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ASM—Aircraft Structural Maintenance
CPAB—Corrosion Prevention Advisory Boards
CPC—Corrosion Preventive Compounds
PDM—Periodic Depot Maintenance
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluator
QPL—Qualified Product List
OPR: HQ AMC/A4MJS (MSgt Kurt Westergaard)
