BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                   AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                             INSTRUCTION 65-601
                                                                                      1 NOVEMBER 2004

                                                                       62D AIRLIFT WING MCCHORD
                                                                                   AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                         Supplement
                                                                                             27 JULY 2006

                                                                                   Financial Management

                                                                    AMC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                                               FOR OPERATIONS

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AMCFSS/A88I                                                               Certified by: HQ AMC/A88
                                                                                (Lt Col Michael E. Phelps)
Supersedes AMCI 65-601, 1 APRIL 2004                                                            Pages: 54

                                                  (62AW)
OPR: 62 CPTS/FMA                                                                Certified by: 62 CPTS/CC
                                                                              (Maj Anthony R. Hernandez)
Supersedes AMCI65-601_62AWSUP1,                                                                   Pages: 5
           22 December 2003

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 65-6, Budget, Air Force Instruction (AFI)
65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, AFI 65-601, Volume 2, Budget Management for
Operations, and Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation (DoDFMR) 7000.14, Volume
11B, Reimbursable Operations, Policy and Procedures-Defense Business Operations Fund. Command-
ers will use this instruction to discharge their responsibility for sound financial management. It applies to
all AMC units below the major command (MAJCOM) level, funded from Headquarters, Air Mobility
Command (HQ AMC). This instruction does not apply to Air National Guard or United States Air Force
Reserve units. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

(62AW) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Mobility Command Instruction
AMCI65-601, 1 Nov 04. This supplement applies to all organizations assigned and attached to the 62
AW. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained
in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and dis-
posed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
2                                                                                         AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision incorporates Interim Change IC 04-2. Interim Change (IC) 04-2 to AMCI 65-601 revises
paragraphs 1., 3., and 4. for additional clarification. Added new guidance (paragraphs 6.1. through
6.2.3.5. and paragraphs 6.7. through 6.7.3.10.4.) under paragraph 6. to reflect specific duties and respon-
sibilities of the Financial Management Analysis (FMA) office. Renumbered paragraphs 6.1. through 6.4.
of the previous publication to paragraphs 6.3. through 6.6. respectively. Paragraph 15., replaced
“Resource Advisor (RA) Training” with “Resource Management System (RMS) Training” in the 1st sen-
tence. Revised paragraph 15.1.4. to reflect RCM and RA training begins within 30 days after appoint-
ment. Added paragraph 15.1.5. on RMS follow-on training. Revised paragraph 16. by adding the HQ
AMC/A8 web site access for the SAF/FM memorandum on Annual Budget Review for Support Agree-
ments. A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.
(62AW) This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Sub-paragraph 7.4.1.7. (Added) was added to show what the Strategic Planning Executive
Group will provide. Sub-paragraph 8.1.1. (Added) was added to indicate responsibilities of the Resource
advisor. Sub-paragraph 8.1.2. (Added) was added to explain the purpose of Resource Management
Teams. Attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting information; Attachment 8, Sample Let-
ter Quarterly Projections Format (Cumulative); and Attachment 9, Sample Letter Reprogramming
Request were added.
      1.      General. ......................................................................................................................    4
      2.      Operational Risk Management (ORM). .....................................................................                           4
      3.      Distribution. ...............................................................................................................      4
      4.      Updates. .....................................................................................................................     4
      5.      Applicable Terms. ......................................................................................................           4
      6.      Financial Management Responsibilities. ...................................................................                         5
      7.      Financial Committees. ...............................................................................................              9
      8.      Concepts. ....................................................................................................................    13
      9.      FMB Minutes. ............................................................................................................         14
     10.      O&M 3400 and MFH Quarterly Adjustments. ..........................................................                                15
     11.      AVPOL Monthly Report. ..........................................................................................                  15
     12.      Fiscal Year-End Close-Out. .......................................................................................                15
     13.      Funding Procedures for Base Investment Equipment. ...............................................                                 15
     14.      Foreign Military Sales (FMS) Administration Funding. ...........................................                                  16
     15.      Resource Management System (RMS) Training. ......................................................                                 16
     16.      Support Agreement Management. .............................................................................                       17
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                          3


Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION        19

Attachment 1—(62AW) GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
           INFORMATION                                                 22

Attachment 2— EXAMPLE OF AMC BASE-LEVEL FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND
           RESPONSIBILITY                                              23

Attachment 3— FORMAT FOR PREPARATION OF FMB MINUTES                    25

Attachment 4— AMC AVPOL MONTHLY REPORT                                 26

Attachment 5— SAMPLE LETTER OF RESOURCE ADVISOR APPOINTMENT            27

Attachment 6— SAMPLE LETTER OF RESOURCE ADVISOR TRAINING
           CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION                                   31

Attachment 7— IC 2003-1 TO AMCI 65-601, AMC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT FOR
           OPERATIONS                                                  34

Attachment 8— IC 2004-1 TO AMCI 65-601, AMC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT FOR
           OPERATIONS                                                  41

Attachment 8—(62AW) SAMPLE LETTER QUARTERLY PROJECTIONS FORMAT
           (CUMULATIVE)                                                46

Attachment 9— IC 2004-2 TO AMCI 65-601, AMC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT FOR
           OPERATIONS                                                  47

Attachment 9—(62AW) SAMPLE LETTER REPROGRAMMING REQUEST                54
4                                                                 AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


1. General. Financial managers require a continuing awareness and involvement by all resource manag-
ers to achieve mission objectives within the approved annual financial operating program. This instruc-
tion pertains primarily to the management of funds for the Operations and Maintenance (O&M) 3400
program, the Military Family Housing (MFH) program, base-procured investment equipment (3080
appropriation) program, and the Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF) operating and capital pro-
grams. Procedures not applicable to these programs are specified. AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guid-
ance and Procedures, provides funding guidance for O&M 3400, MFH, and 3080 procurement
appropriations and AMCI 65-602, TWCF Budget Guidance and Procedures, provides funding guidance
on the TWCF (97X4930.FD40) appropriation.

2. Operational Risk Management (ORM). AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, defines ORM
as a decision-making process to systematically evaluate possible courses of action, identify risks and ben-
efits, and determine the best course of action for any given situation. It enables commanders, functional
managers, and supervisors to maximize operational capabilities while minimizing risk by applying a sim-
ple, systematic process appropriate for all personnel functions, both on- and off-duty. ORM has four main
principles: (1) accept no unnecessary risk; (2) make risk decisions at the appropriate level; (3) accept risk
when the benefits outweigh the cost; and (4) integrate ORM into operations and planning at all levels.
AMC/A8 has directed the implementation of the ORM fundamentals and philosophy into all aspects of
our financial management culture in accordance with AFI 90-901.

3. Distribution. This AMCI is available on the AMC/A8 web at the following address: https://
www.amcfm.scott.af.mil/FM_BudgetPolicy.cfm. To access the publication link, click on the “Budget
Policy” key located under the “Navigate” menu; then select “AMCI 65-601” under “Policy Guidance”
menu. You may download the publication at any time and reproduce in sufficient copies to allow distribu-
tion to local financial managers, as determined by the local Comptroller. AMCI 65-601 is also available
on the AMC Publications web site: https://private.amc.af.mil/pubs/hqamc.htm. Click on the “65-Series
Financial Management” block and select on “AMCI 65-601”.

4. Updates. HQ AMC/A88 will provide revisions to AMCI 65-601 through interim change (IC) releases
or a complete revision to the instruction. You may submit suggestions for updates to AMCFSS/A88I,
Attn: Budget Policy and Procedures, 402 Scott Drive, Unit 1K1, Scott AFB Il 62225-5311. Use AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Please be specific as to the purpose of your sugges-
tion. Provide as much information as possible to include the benefits derived from your proposed change.

5. Applicable Terms.
    5.1. Responsibility Center Manager (RCM). A commander or individual in charge of an organization
    consuming resources, with span of control over one or more subordinate cost centers. The title usually
    applies to squadron commanders, group commanders, and wing commanders. These individuals are
    the principal levels that manage financial resources-the designation of the RCM recognizes formal
    resource management responsibility. A formal letter of appointment is not necessary. However, the
    FMA office will maintain a current list of the names, grades, duty titles, office symbols, and telephone
    numbers of all RCMs. AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapters 2 and 10, describe the specific responsibilities
    of the RC/RCM. See Attachment 2 for an example of RC/RCM designations.
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                         5


   5.1. (62AW) Responsibility Center Managers (RCMs) must submit to 62d Comptroller Squadron
   Financial Analysis (62 CPTS/FMA), in writing, the names of individuals appointed to the positions of
   Resource Advisor and Alternate Resource Advisor. See appointment letter format in AMCI 65-601.
   5.2. Resource Advisor (RA). An individual appointed by an RCM to monitor the preparation of bud-
   get estimates, participates in the development of financial targets, and monitor the use of financial
   resources in day-to-day operations. (See paragraph 8.9. of this instruction for appointment of aircrew
   members as RAs.) AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapter 10, paragraph 10.2.5, describes the specific respon-
   sibilities of the RA. NOTE: The FMA Office will maintain a record of RAs appointed by their respec-
   tive RCM.
   5.2. (62AW) Resource Advisors to RCMs must maintain a current list of subordinate cost center
   managers. Cost center manager (CCM) designation is determined by position of assignment.
   5.3. Alternate Resource Advisor (ARA). An individual appointed by an RCM to assist the primary
   RA and to assume financial duties during the absence of the primary. (See paragraph 8.9. of this
   instruction for appointment of aircrew members as ARAs.) NOTE: The FMA office will maintain a
   record of ARAs appointed by their respective RCM.
   5.4. Cost Center Manager (CCM). The individual responsible for the activity of a cost center or work
   center. The CCM works with the RA or RCM on matters pertaining to the financial management of
   their particular function.
   5.5. Consult AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapter 10, for ARA/CCM responsibilities.

6. Financial Management Responsibilities.
   6.1. Financial Management Analysis (FMA) Office. Preparation and execution of the financial plan
   for the unit is the responsibility of the AMC wing or other AMC funding points’ (e.g., AMC tenants
   at other major command (MAJCOM) locations or other unique AMC organizations located on AMC
   wings) FMA office. For the purpose of discussion, all references to AMC wings below will also
   include all other AMC funding points that submit financial plans to HQ AMC/A88.
   6.2. Review and Validation of Unit Financial Requirements. AMC FMA offices review and validate
   financial plan inputs, execution plans, mid-year revisions and other inputs to the command by its
   units. FMA offices validate and rank unit unfunded requirements to reflect the financial status of the
   unit and priorities of the wing commander. Submit only those items beyond the funding capability of
   the unit (in priority order) to HQ AMC/A88 for use in developing command priorities.
      6.2.1. Financial Plan. Each AMC wing supports the command effort to formulate a budget sub-
      mission to the Air Staff. These inputs are generally due in March and the command financial plan
      is due in May. Unit inputs are routed through the local wing/funding point for review, validation
      and consolidation. Wings are required to follow command guidance and explain all unit require-
      ments. See AMCPAM 65-603, Budget Operating Guidance, chapter 3, paragraph 3.7. for addi-
      tional guidance concerning the AMC O&M Financial Plan and TWCF Budget Estimate
      Submission requirements.
      6.2.2. Budget Execution Reviews (BER). AMC wings identify unfunded requirements and/or
      excess funds for possible reprogramming against higher priority needs. The command financial
      structure reviews and validates wing inputs against obligation profiles and available resources to
      determine potential funding adjustments. Requirements that exceed command-wide resources are
6                                                                  AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


       prioritized and submitted by HQ AMC/A88 to the Air Staff for funding consideration. AMC FMA
       offices submit their prioritized BER requirements to HQ AMC/A88 over the Internet through the
       HQ AMC/A8 web site. HQ AMC/A88 provides the rules governing AMC BER policy in the
       annual BER guidance package, normally disseminated in January. See paragraph 8.8. of this
       instruction for additional guidance on BER submissions.
       6.2.3. Fiscal Year-End Closeout. AMC Wing FMA offices serve as the base focal point for all
       closeout issues and should establish local procedures and ensure they are followed. HQ AMC/A88
       provides year-end budget and reporting guidance each year to assist in the closeout process. The
       closeout objective is to maximize the use of current year funding and minimize potential fall-in or
       fall-out in the following fiscal year. To achieve this goal, AMC wing FMA offices must ensure
       controls are established to account for and properly obligate all valid current year requirements
       within available funding.
           6.2.3.1. Maintain a prioritized list of approved unfunded requirements that may be obligated
           before end-of-year final reporting.
           6.2.3.2. Notify HQ AMC/A88 of any O&M/TWCF funds that cannot be obligated/expensed
           as soon as possible but no later than 24 hours prior to year-end closeout (30 September).
           6.2.3.3. Establish procedures to ensure all unliquidated obligations, particularly those sup-
           ported by miscellaneous obligation reimbursement documents (MORDs), are recorded.
           6.2.3.4. Coordinate with base supply and the contracting office to ensure timely obligation of
           funds. Ensure adjustments to contractual documents are coordinated with contracting and nec-
           essary modifications are issued. Check with the accounting liaison office to determine when
           documents have been received and recorded. Ensure MORDs for year-end adjustments are
           established per DFAS-DE Interim Guidance, Accounting for Obligations, April 2000. See
           AMCPAM 65-603, chapter 22, for additional information concerning closeout guidance.
    6.3. Financial Management. Financial management is a continuous changing process, and while the
    responsibility rests with the commander, the focus of primary financial management emphasis is at
    the second level responsibility center (RC), structured per Attachment 2. It is at this point in the orga-
    nizational chain that significant planning and programming decisions are made. Subject to any restric-
    tions and limitations imposed by law, higher authority, or the commander, the second level RC has
    complete flexibility to use allocated funds to accomplish the mission. For financial management pur-
    poses, you should view the second level RC as a separate entity consisting of subordinate (third or
    fourth level) cost centers (CC). All funding requirements should accumulate upward from CCs, to the
    second level RCs, to the 1st level RC; conversely, approved programs distribute downward. All bud-
    get submissions and unfunded (BER) requirements funnel through the second level RA for approval
    by the second level RCM, then to 1st level RCM for approval before forwarding to the FMA office.
    You should resolve funding problems within the second level RC organization by reprogramming,
    revising, deferring, etc., among subordinate RCs and CCs before elevating to the Financial Manage-
    ment Board (FMB) or commander for resolution. The Group RA reviews all subordinate RC budget
    submissions and unfunded requirements in order to advise the Group Commander (RCM) in prepara-
    tion for FMB action.
    6.4. Financial Policy. The FMA office will provide all commanders, RCMs and RAs documented
    guidance on any new AMC command financial policies that affect their operating programs. This
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                        7


  guidance can be in the form of periodic policy letters, E-mail, base-wide bulletins, and briefings at
  staff meetings and/or financial committee meetings.
  6.5. Loading Targets. Establish annual and quarterly fund targets according to the policies enumer-
  ated in this instruction, AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapters 7 and 10, and DFAS-DE 7000.1-R, Respon-
  sibility Center/Cost Center Codes. You should target O&M and TWCF funding authorities
  (obligation and expense authority respectively) to those RCs who exercise significant management
  control. FMA offices will balance command funding documents to annual and quarterly targets
  loaded in the accounting system for all fiscal years and fund codes at least monthly.
  6.6. Base-Level Financial Structure. See Attachment 2 for an example of a typical AMC wing finan-
  cial structure.
  6.7. Unit Responsibilities.
     6.7.1. Unit Commanders. Commanders are responsible for the productive, prudent, and lawful
     use of allocated resources under public law, established directives and guidance provided. Com-
     manders should support and actively participate in all phases of resource management.
     6.7.2. Base Comptrollers. Base comptrollers are required to establish and maintain an effective
     financial management structure for base level and subordinate units. Their interaction with the
     commander, RCMs, functional area experts, and other RMS players sets the tone for the unit
     financial management program.
     6.7.3. FMA Officers. Basic responsibilities outlined in AFI 65-601, Volume 2, are to (1) help pre-
     pare, revise and carry out financial plans and (2) review and analyze accounting data to help match
     available funds against programmed requirements. Additional responsibilities are as follows:
         6.7.3.1. Financial Coding Structure. HQ AMC/A88I will develop a financial coding structure
         guide for AMC FMA offices. The guide will include AMC Element of Expense/Investment
         Code (EEIC), Emergency and Special Program (ESP), Program Element Codes (PECs), limi-
         tations, and sales codes. All changes to coding structure must be coordinated with HQ AMC/
         A88I and the appropriate accounting activity.
         6.7.3.2. FMA officers will assist the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) field
         site and accounting liaison office assign appropriate EEICs, RC/CCs and other appropriation
         and reporting elements, i.e., sales codes, functional categories, and ESP codes. Accounting
         reports and commitment/obligation documents should be reviewed to ensure proper appropri-
         ation data elements are being used.
         6.7.3.3. Funding Documents. Maintain a file of all funding documents and messages received
         from HQ AMC/A88I. Coordinate with the accounting liaison office to ensure all funding mes-
         sages or memorandums of telephone funding actions have been received and are posted to the
         accounting records. Consult with the accounting liaison section before end-of-month to verify
         accounting records agree with funding documents. (NOTE: If passage of defense appropria-
         tions or other funds distribution from the Air Staff is delayed, HQ AMC/A88 will issue interim
         guidance. This normally provides authority to go on with essential activities consistent with
         the prior year level of effort).
         6.7.3.4. Funding Limitations. Set up local controls and procedures to ensure full compliance
         with all legal and administrative limitations. Review status at least quarterly, or more fre-
         quently, as required, at Financial Management Board (FMB) and Financial Working Group
8                                                          AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


    (FWG) meetings (see paragraphs 7.1. and 7.5. of this instruction). Report suspected Anti-Defi-
    ciency Act violations to HQ AMC/A87 and coordinate with the local accounting liaison office.
    6.7.3.5. Program Development. Take part in the planning process to ensure all budgeting and
    funding considerations are included. Attend local meetings where plans and programs impact-
    ing appropriated funds are discussed. Research, formulate and validate cost data, work units
    and cost factors used in financial plan preparation, revision and management decisions.
    6.7.3.6. Program Review and Analysis. Analyze adequacy of funding to meet approved pro-
    gram objectives. Ensure essential mission and support requirements are funded. Identify
    unfunded requirements and make every effort to satisfy these requirements internally through
    reprogramming and through other economies.
       6.7.3.6.1. Program Balance and Reprogramming. Identify inequities in funds distribution
       and research sources for potential reprogramming adjustments. Review reprogramming
       requests to ensure they are equitable, meet mission objectives, and are in compliance with
       current limitations and other appropriate guidance. Reprogramming EEICs 480XX,
       52XXX, 532XX, 534XX, and 6XX between facility projects or Unaccompanied Personnel
       Furnishings Investment Program (UPFIP) requires HQ AMC/A78/A88 advance approval.
       6.7.3.6.2. Investigate variances and trends between actual obligation rates and planned
       targets. Keep staff, operating units, and financial management committees informed on all
       findings and recommend corrective action, i.e. policies, reprogramming, or controls, if
       necessary.
    6.7.3.7. Emergency Requirements. Occasionally, an emergency will arise that needs an
    immediate funding solution, i.e., catastrophic electric or water line failure, or natural disaster
    response. Procedures are as follows:
       6.7.3.7.1. With unit commander approval, use local funds to support emergency actions to
       protect human life, government property or facilities. Identify all associated expenses
       using a local ESP code. NOTE: HQ AMC/A88 or SAF/FMBMM may issue a MAJCOM
       or Air Force ESP code to track costs for unique circumstances (e.g., hurricane evacuation,
       disaster relief support, etc.). HQ AMC/A88 may also direct the use of AMC ESP code AR
       (Alpha Romeo) to capture costs incident to the recovery, repair, and replacement of assets
       (facilities, equipment, infrastructure, etc.) along with any Air Force personal property
       resulting from damage or destruction due to natural disasters of Acts of God, to the extent
       authorized by statute or fiscal law.
       6.7.3.7.2. Instruct unit civil engineer personnel to identify requirement(s) to their com-
       mand counterparts, if applicable, and follow specific HQ AMC/A7 emergency project
       reporting procedures.
       6.7.3.7.3. Units should immediately notify their FMA office by telephone to advise them
       of the circumstances and estimated cost. Follow up with written confirmation. FMAs will
       in turn notify HQ AMC/A88 by telephone and follow up with a confirming message or
       e-mail. Submit Natural Disaster Report as directed by AMC General Fiscal Guidance. The
       report should be submitted by applicable appropriation.
       6.7.3.7.4. If a contractor is involved, notify the appropriate contracting officer before any
       action is taken to obligate the government. (NOTE: For procedures resulting from emer-
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                        9


             gency conditions as a result of wartime activities, reference AFI 10-213, Comptroller
             Operations Under Emergency Conditions).
          6.7.3.8. Staff Assistance to Subordinate Units.
             6.7.3.8.1. Provide technical help to responsibility center managers, resource advisors,
             subordinate units, other staff officials and tenant units in the development of operating
             budgets and financial plans, and to carry out approved programs.
             6.7.3.8.2. Provide financial management policy decisions and procedural guidance to
             appropriate resource management personnel.
             6.7.3.8.3. Maintain personal contact with operating activities to be familiar with func-
             tions, plans, accomplishments and problems.
          6.7.3.9. Quality Assurance Program.
             6.7.3.9.1. Use checklists to make sure all functional responsibilities are accomplished and
             comply with standard self-inspection program procedures. Develop local checklists or use
             those provided by HQ AMC/A8 and supplement as needed.
             6.7.3.9.2. Review AMC reports from other bases and check for like deficiencies.
          6.7.3.10. Other Administrative Functions.
             6.7.3.10.1. Resource Management System (RMS) Administration. Ensure administrative
             requirements of wing or unit financial management committees are developed and main-
             tained including membership appointments, meeting notifications, agenda, briefing
             requirements, development of financial management policies and fund controls, imple-
             mentation of USAF, AMC and local policies and directives, and appropriate minutes of
             meetings.
             6.7.3.10.2. Resource Management Team (RMT). Participate in RMT visits to RC/CCs to
             give help and advice, to gather and distribute new resource management ideas, and to iden-
             tify restricting policies and procedures. RMT visits are not mandatory. However, an active
             program at AMC units is encouraged. See AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapter 12, for guide-
             lines on establishing a RMT.
             6.7.3.10.3. File Documentation. Establish and maintain files to support documentation
             requirements necessary to ensure office continuity, show accomplishment of assigned
             responsibilities, and identify financial program data, decisions, policies and guidance.
             6.7.3.10.4. Financial Management Directives. Maintain and have access within the comp-
             troller activity to applicable DoD/AF/AMC directives, instructions, and AMC supple-
             ments to DoD/AF instructions on financial management. Establish local directives and
             supplements, as necessary.

7. Financial Committees.
   7.1. Financial Management Board (FMB). AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapter 2, paragraph 2.12., pro-
   vides guidance on the establishment of review committees, to include the FMB. The senior or host
   wing commander at each base establishes the FMB to ensure the allocation of resources in the most
   effective manner. The FMB convenes at the call of the chairperson. While there is no frequency man-
10                                                             AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


     dated by SAF/FMB, we recommend that the FMB meet at least quarterly, but normally should meet
     more often to review fund status and ensure sound financial management. During fiscal year-end
     close-out, the FMB should meet at least once during the month of August and as required in Septem-
     ber in order to guarantee a smooth close-out process prior to transitioning to the new fiscal year.
     7.2. The comptroller or the FMA officer should reestablish the FMB frequency, agenda, and format
     of financial data to be presented with a new wing commander whenever he/she assumes the duties.
     7.3. FMB Membership.
        7.3.1. For host AMC bases, the wing commander or vice-commander during the commander’s
        absence chairs the FMB. Suggested minimum composition for the FMB is wing commander;
        group commanders for medical, operations, logistics, support, and Director of Staff; and the
        comptroller. While additional membership is encouraged, these individuals should serve as advi-
        sors to the FMB. The FMA officer serves as the facilitator and recorder.
        7.3.1. (62AW) Financial Management Board.


Members                                               Advisors
62d Airlift Wing Commander, Chair                     62d Communications Squadron Commander
62d Airlift Wing Vice Commander                       62d Mission Support Squadron Commander
62d Mission Support Group Commander                   62d Services Squadron Commander
62d Operations Group Commander                        62d Contracting Squadron Commander
62d Maintenance Group Commander                       62d Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander
62d Medical Group Commander                           62d Civil Engineer Squadron Commander
62d Airlift Wing Director of Staff                    62d Command Chief Master Sergeant
62d Airlift Wing Comptroller                          Chief, Manpower and Organization
Recorder Chief, Financial Analysis                    Chief, Civilian Personnel

        7.3.2. For AMC tenant units and medical centers having a separate operating budget account
        number (OBAN), the composition of the FMB will vary depending on the type of organizational
        structure involved. We suggest you compose tenant wing and group (including geographically
        separated units (GSU)) FMB members equivalent to AMC host wing group commanders.
     7.4. Specific Responsibilities.
        7.4.1. All FMB approval actions must be documented in the FMB minutes. Approval may be
        accomplished via AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet (SSS), if the FMB was unable to for-
        mally convene to approve any of the requirements listed under this paragraph below. The FMA
        office will maintain a copy of all SSS approval documentation. The FMB approves the following:
            7.4.1.1. Operating budget and financial plans (O&M 3400, TWCF, MFH, and 3080).
            7.4.1.2. Distribution of annual programs (O&M 3400, TWCF, and MFH) to Groups, Wing
            Staff, and Civil Engineering (CE).
            7.4.1.3. The prioritized list of investment equipment (3080 appropriation; budget project
            account code (BPAC) 845010, base-procured investment equipment (BPIE)). NOTE: The
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                          11


        FMB will also assure the completion of all applicable Economic Analysis (EA) for these
        requirements.
        7.4.1.4. The prioritized unfunded requirements list (see paragraph 8.8. of this instruction)
        before submission to HQ AMC/A88 (O&M 3400, TWCF, MFH, and 3080).
        7.4.1.5. Annual reprogramming actions between Group CCs. NOTE: Within a budget activity
        (BA), the wing commander may designate a reprogramming threshold below the level requir-
        ing FMB approval, provided the appropriate RCs are in agreement. Review all reprogramming
        actions below the threshold at the next FMB meeting. You should establish this policy during
        the 1st meeting of each new fiscal year and document it in the FMB minutes.
        7.4.1.5. (62AW) The commander has designated that the reprogramming threshold between
        Responsibility Centers (RCs) within a Budget Activity (BA) will be $10,000.00. Reprogram-
        ming actions above this threshold will require FMB approval.
        7.4.1.6. The prioritized list of TWCF Capital requirements. Include all locally approved Air
        Force Form 3215, C-4 Systems Requirements Documents (CSRD) in the list, if required.
        NOTE: The FMB will also assure the completion of all applicable EAs for these requirements.
        7.4.1.7. (Added-62AW) FMB members, as Strategic Planning Executive Group (SPEG) rep-
        resentatives, will establish an annual funding strategy each fiscal year prior to initial distribu-
        tion. The funding strategy will be aligned with the Wing’s strategic plan. This strategy will
        provide funding prioritization guidance to all personnel and will be applied consistently
        through year-end. The SPEG may revise the funding strategy at any time; however, the SPEG
        must officially notify the Comptroller during the next SPEG or FMB session.
     7.4.2. The FMB is responsible for the following reviews. (NOTE: See paragraph 7.4.2.11. for
     delegation authority.)
        7.4.2.1. The total TWCF expenses (accrued expenditures unpaid (AEU) and accrued expendi-
        tures paid (AEP)) for all operating budget accounts, including architect-engineer (A-E) ser-
        vices and the sustainment, restoration and maintenance (SRM) (formerly the maintenance and
        repair (MR)) account. The TWCF review should also include a separate look at obligations in
        the modernization (formerly minor construction (MC)) account. During the last two months of
        the fiscal year, review the potential amount of undelivered orders outstanding (UOO) rollover.
        The TWCF annual program includes additional authority for supply, equipment, and depot
        level reparable (DLR) due-out transactions (UOO) and obligation authority for SRM projects.
        7.4.2.2. Total obligations and expenses by combined Air Force element of expense and
        investment code (EEIC), (e.g., 409, 59X, 6XX, 62X, etc.) compared to annual program, for all
        appropriations. As a minimum, focus the review at the Group level. For this purpose, CE will
        be reviewed separately (O&M 3400, TWCF, and MFH).
        7.4.2.3. Actual cost per flying hour compared to the funded rate. Flying hour costs include the
        following expenses and obligation data: Aviation petroleum, oil, and lubricants (AVPOL)
        (EEIC 699), material support division/depot level reparable (MSD/DLR) (EEIC 644, RC/CC
        XX2XXX), general support division (GSD) supplies (EEICs 609, RC/CC XX2XXX), autho-
        rized flying hour supplies purchased via AF Form 9, Request for Purchase (EEIC 60902,
        RC/CC XX2XXX), and authorized flying hour requirements purchased via the Govern-
        ment-Wide Purchase Card (EEIC 61952, RC/CC XX2XXX). For TWCF aircraft, use
12                                                              AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


            expenses (AEP + AEU). For O&M aircraft, use direct obligations (AEP + AEU + UOO). The
            FMB should also compare the total hours flown to the funded program.
            7.4.2.4. Base-procured investment equipment (3080 appropriation) and TWCF capital pro-
            grams to include status of funds, approval of new items, and approval of reprogramming
            actions.
            7.4.2.5. Reimbursements by RC within BA (O&M 3400) and budget project (MFH).
            7.4.2.6. Civilian pay program, to include the execution of work year costs in relation to the
            annual program. NOTE: This is only applicable to those bases that do not have a separate for-
            mal committee (i.e., the Human Resources Management Board (HRMB) or Civilian Employ-
            ment Cost Management Committee (CECMC)), to perform a detailed review of the civilian
            pay program.
            7.4.2.7. MFH by 3-digit Budget Project.
            7.4.2.8. Prioritized requirements on the Budget Execution Report (BER) lists (O&M, TWCF,
            MFH, and 3080 BPAC 845010).
            7.4.2.9. Funding received from AMCFSS/A88IF since last FMB.
            7.4.2.10. The legal limitations and targets on all command funding documents.
            7.4.2.11. All reviews required in paragraph 7.4.2. may be (1) modified to meet local circum-
            stances or (2) delegated to the Financial Working Group (FWG). In either case approval must
            be obtained, in writing, from the current Wing Commander.
        7.4.3. FMB Minutes. The FMB recorder (FMA officer) should promptly prepare meeting min-
        utes, file the original copy in the FMA office, and provide copies to the FMB and FWG members.
        See paragraph 9. of this instruction for detailed requirements.
     7.5. Financial Working Group (FWG). As its name implies, the FWG is a working-level financial
     management group. Its efforts support the FMB. AMC organizations in a tenant status (either on
     AMC/non-AMC bases or non-Air Force locations) having a separate OBAN do not need to establish
     a FWG if its membership would include essentially the same personnel as the FMB. FWG meetings
     convene as necessary to support the deliberation and decision process of the FMB. We recommend
     that the FWG meet at least quarterly, but may meet more often to review the status of funds and to
     ensure the practice of sound financial management. During fiscal year-end close-out, the FWG should
     meet at least once in the month of August and as required in September.
        7.5.1. FWG Membership.
            7.5.1.1. The FMA officer chairs the FWG and designates someone from the FMA office as
            the recorder.
            7.5.1.2. The general membership should be, as a minimum, the RAs for the RCM who are
            members of the FMB. Other personnel may attend FWG meetings as deemed necessary by the
            chairperson.
            7.5.1.3. Membership of FWGs established for an AMC tenant unit that has a separate OBAN
            should include those RAs organizationally consistent with their FMB.
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                          13


      7.5.2. Specific Responsibilities. The FWG must develop and approve for submission to the FMB
      those items that require FMB approval. The FWG membership must also review the items to be
      briefed at the FMB and be prepared to discuss and define program changes and deviations.
      7.5.3. A memorandum for record (MFR) will be prepared and maintained for review by higher
      authority for each FWG meeting. The MFR will summarize actions, if any, relating to the working
      group’s specific recommendations. Attach a list of FWG attendees to the MFR.
      7.5.4. We encourage all AMC wings and groups administering both O&M 3400 and TWCF oper-
      ating funding programs to conduct a combined FWG. However, the local financial structure may
      necessitate the establishment of two separate FWGs.

8. Concepts.
   8.1. The financial program of each unit must, at all times, reflect its requirements and related
   resources, and should identify scheduled consumption of resources to provide the basis for manage-
   ment actions and future planning. No matter how well any financial program is conceived and admin-
   istered, it is subject to revision to reflect mission changes, operational adjustments, and levels of
   resource availability.
      8.1.1. (Added-62AW) Resource advisors are responsible for submitting requests for reprogram-
      ming of funds within their Responsibility Center (RC). Requests for reprogramming between sec-
      ond level RCs must be signed by both losing and gaining RC managers prior to submission to the
      Financial Analysis Office. See Attachment 2 for sample Reprogramming Request letter format.
      8.1.2. (Added-62AW) Resource Management Teams (RMT). The purpose of RMT is to train
      and motivate users of resources by observing and cross-feeding innovative resource management
      methods and ideas. The Comptroller implements and administers the RMT in accordance with
      AFI 65-601, Vol II.
   8.2. You should distribute annual (TWCF) and quarterly (O&M 3400, MFH) funding authorizations
   as accurately as possible to the applicable BA, EEIC, RC/CC, and program element codes (PEC)
   where you anticipate the expenditures/obligations. HQ AMC/A88 as well as SAF/FMB monitors sta-
   tus reports reflecting the distribution of the annual and quarterly programs, as well as actual expendi-
   tures/ obligations incurred to date. Failure to properly distribute annual and quarterly funding
   authorizations and to properly record expenditures/obligations may provide misleading information
   concerning the financial status of the wing and the command.
   8.3. You should load targets to the CC level in the accounting system for supplies. If more than one
   supply organization code is assigned to a CC, then load targets to only one organization code unless
   directed by the RCM to do otherwise. Quarterly targets must reconcile with the base-level computer
   targets by RC. Do not break down targets in the supply system to each CC with each RC unless
   directed by the RCM.
   8.4. Cost Center Management (CCM). AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapter 10 paragraph 10.2.4, and
   DFAS-DE 7000.1-R, chapter 2, paragraph B, define a CC. The major role of a CCM (or work center
   target manager) is to manage the work center’s supply program. Whether the CCM directly manages
   other commodities is at the discretion of each RCM.
   8.5. Funding documents (CBAS for Air Force O&M appropriations, MFH, and TWCF, and PBAS
   for DoD 97-type appropriations) issued by AMCFSS/A88IF display financial data by BA (O&M
14                                                                 AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


     3400), budget program and project (TWCF and MFH), and BPAC (3080 appropriation). The FMB
     and FWG must ensure a balanced program within total fund availability. The Funds Control section
     (AMCFSS/A88IF) of HQ AMC/A88 provides the Defense Finance and Accounting Service at Omaha
     NE (DFAS-OM) a copy of all funding documents issued to AMC bases.
     8.6. All AMC funding points have the flexibility to reprogram funds throughout the fiscal year,
     except as specifically provided in the HQ AMC/A88 funding document or as restricted by legal limi-
     tations on appropriations. However, in order to eliminate “expense, obligation, and commitment chas-
     ing,” you should accomplish any reprogramming actions only after a close review of obligation and
     expense rates, program changes, and forecasted requirements.
     8.7. HQ AMC/A88 retains no “reserve” other than those funds targeted for centrally managed pro-
     grams (sustainment, restoration, and modernization by contract (SRMC), A-E design, chemical war-
     fare defense equipment (CWDE), Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) Exercises, etc.), identified to the HQ
     AMC Budget Advisory Board (BAB) and approved by AMC/CC. At the beginning of each fiscal
     year, HQ AMC/A88 issues each AMC wing/funding point a viable operating program. The only other
     sources of subsequent funding increases will be program slippages within the command or additional
     Air Force (O&M 3400, MFH) or USTRANSCOM (TWCF) funding based on the command’s total
     unfunded requirements.
     8.8. Traditionally, funds allocated to an organization do not usually satisfy total requirements. It is
     the responsibility of the wing/group commanders, through their FMB and FWG, to ensure critical
     “hard-core” mission items are funded. Each AMC base/funding point will submit their BER, as
     required, via the HQ AMC/A8 web at https://www.amcfm.scott.af.mil. (NOTE: This access is avail-
     able only during the time of each BER drill (February and July).) This will be the source of informa-
     tion used when HQ AMC/A88 briefs the command BER to the BAB to prioritize funding
     requirements, and to AMC/CV/CC for approval to release available funds. The BER submission
     should reflect all items that you currently cannot cover with your existing program due to the funding
     of higher priority requirements. The command BER list is not static; items on the list will shift as pri-
     orities change. Since HQ AMC/A88 uses the BER list for command justification to SAF/FMB and
     funds release, it is imperative they be realistic and meaningful. Specific guidance will be issued prior
     to each BER call.
     8.9. The financial management positions at each AMC OBAN/funding point include RCMs, primary
     and alternate RAs, and CCMs. Since financial responsibilities of the RCM and CCM go hand in hand
     with supervisory responsibilities, consider only primary and alternate RA positions to be additional
     duties. Do not consider aircrew members for any financial management additional duty positions
     unless specifically requested.

9. FMB Minutes. Prepare minutes in the format outlined in Attachment 3. Number your FMB minutes
by fiscal year (FY). For example, number the third meeting held in FY02 as FY02-3.
     9.1. Provide timely financial data at FMB meetings. Do not show data to the FMB that is more than
     30 days old unless it is for comparison purposes.
     9.2. Ensure your FMB minutes are signed and distributed no later than 14 calendar days following the
     meeting date.
     9.3. As a minimum, your FMB minutes will summarize substantive discussion pertaining to each of
     its specific responsibilities (see paragraph 7.4.) and include:
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                         15


      9.3.1. Complete rationale for all annual reprogramming action between Group CCs to include
      both the losing and gaining CC.
      9.3.2. A copy of the briefing charts (file copy only).
      9.3.3. A prioritized list of current year investment (3080) unfunded requirements. For AMC bases
      that manage TWCF funds, include any current year TWCF Capital unfunded requirements in the
      FMB minutes.

10. O&M 3400 and MFH Quarterly Adjustments.
   10.1. You may request quarterly adjustments through your HQ AMC/A88O or AMCFSS/A88T base
   analyst no later than the fifth day of the last month of each quarter, when possible.
   10.2. You must maintain sufficient quarterly authority to cover obligations plus commitments.
   10.2. (62AW) Quarterly projections for Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF), O&M, Mili-
   tary Family Housing, and Reimbursements will be submitted to 62 CPTS/FMA not later than the 15th
   calendar day of September, December and March (no projection is required in June) for the next
   applicable quarter. Quarterly Projections Format (Non-Cumulative) may be used for submitting quar-
   terly projections (See Attachment 2). O&M organization submissions will include commitments in
   estimating projections.

11. AVPOL Monthly Report. The O&M and TWCF AVPOL report (see Attachment 4) must arrive at
HQ AMC/A88 no later than the 15th calendar day of each month, based on data provided by the wing
Operations RA or the wing refueling document control officer (WRDCO), as appropriate.

12. Fiscal Year-End Close-Out. HQ AMC/A88 will issue annual fiscal year-end close-out guidance
outlining SAF/FMB, MAJCOM, and base procedures, responsibilities, and reports. Bases should estab-
lish a close-out committee addressing close-out actions, etc., in May of each year.

13. Funding Procedures for Base Investment Equipment.
   13.1. Air Force and AMC Organizations Supported by AMC Host Bases.
      13.1.1. AMC units will submit investment equipment requirements to the base FMA office. Air
      Force tenant organizations will also submit their investment equipment requirements to the base
      FMA office as directed by AFI 65-601, Volume 1, chapter 7, paragraph 7.6.2. The FMA officer
      and the chief of supply (LGS) will jointly staff these requirements. FMAs will ensure that each
      organization has the opportunity to submit their requirements into the base’s formal budget sub-
      mission. The base LGS is responsible to ensure that requested items are authorized and that iden-
      tification, pricing, and classification are correct. You should validate all items as having a prime
      national stock number with assigned budget code Z, as authorized in the allowance source code
      (ASC) or qualifying as replacement real property installed equipment (RPIE). Requirements must
      also meet the criteria for 3080 base procured investment equipment (BPIE) (BPAC 845010 only)
      in accordance with AFI 65-601, Volume 1, chapter 8. Additionally, review each item to determine
      eligibility under the fast payback capital investment program (FASCAP) or productivity invest-
      ment fund (PIF) in accordance with AFI 38-301, Productivity Enhancing Capital Investment Pro-
      grams.
16                                                                AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


        13.1.2. The FWG prioritizes the validated 3080 requirements and FMA officer presents the FWG
        recommended priority sequence to the FMB for final approval of the installation’s investment
        equipment (3080) budget. The FMA office then submits the 3080 budget to HQ AMC/A88.
     13.2. AMC units Located on Non-AMC Air Force Bases.
        13.2.1. Your 3080 BPAC 845010 requirements are a host base funding responsibility.
        13.2.2. Identify all 3080 BPAC 845010 requirements to your host base FMA office in accordance
        with their procedures.

14. Foreign Military Sales (FMS) Administration Funding. AMC organizations that control FMS
Administration funding will recoup or reimburse all FMS costs on a monthly basis to the correct appropri-
ation. AMC-financed appropriations must not subsidize any FMS administrative costs. Forward any
change to projected FMS obligations to HQ AMC/A87, 402 Scott Drive, Unit 1K1, Scott AFB IL
62225-5311.

15. Resource Management System (RMS) Training. Commanders are responsible for establishing
and enforcing effective internal controls to ensure resources are protected and financial transactions are
properly recorded in the accounting records. Without proper internal controls we cannot obtain clean
audit reports of our financial statements. This can result in losses of assets and payments for goods and
services not properly received.
     15.1. At base level, commanders rely on RAs to fulfill financial management responsibilities at the
     lowest level, often on a part time basis and sometimes without any extensive prior financial experi-
     ence. RAs will often be accountable officials and their commanders must ensure they receive the
     training they need to meet their responsibilities. HQ USAF/CV memorandum dated 29 Feb 00 directs
     base and installation commanders to take the following actions to ensure proper training of RAs.
        15.1.1. Unit commanders will appoint all RAs to their position in writing so these key personnel
        are clearly identified. Attachment 5 provides a sample appointment letter.
        15.1.2. Unit commanders will ensure that each RA’s supervisor, with base/installation comptrol-
        ler assistance, determines which tasks must be performed and at what level of proficiency. Attach-
        ment 5 contains a list of the most common resource management tasks (not necessarily
        all-inclusive) associated with the RA position.
        15.1.3. Base/installation comptrollers will determine what training is needed for RA task profi-
        ciency. The RA’s supervisor and the comptroller will be responsible for ensuring that all neces-
        sary training takes place. Attachment 6 contains a sample RA training certification of completion
        letter along with an example of identified proficiency tasks. NOTE: Every task identified on this
        example will not necessarily apply to all RAs undergoing proficiency training. We recommend
        that each base/installation comptroller develop a resource management task list that best serves
        the financial operations at that location.
        15.1.4. Unit commanders will ensure that group and squadron RCMs and RAs begin their initial
        training within 30 days after appointment and complete it within 90 days after their appointment.
        The comptroller will provide a letter (Attachment 6) or certificate indicating initial RMS training
        has been received. Additionally, the comptroller will develop a training plan to ensure all required
        task proficiency training is completed within one year of appointment.
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                         17


       15.1.5. Follow-On Training. Follow-on training for RCMs, RAs, and other financial management
       personnel may be accomplished through briefings during financial management committee meet-
       ings or through formal follow-on training classes. Wing/center financial analysis personnel are
       responsible for periodic staff assistance visits (SAV) to field units. During the SAV, review the
       Organization Funds Manager’s (OFM's) performance and provide additional training as required.
   15.2. SAF/FM has developed several web-based courses to aid in training of RAs, found in the sam-
   ple RA letter of appointment at Attachment 5, paragraph 6. Base/installation comptrollers should use
   these courses and all other available means, including training provided by the base FMA office, to
   meet these requirements.
   15.3. The base FMA office will ensure that RAs are providing appropriate training to their CCMs and
   will assist the RAs in providing CCM training, if requested, in accordance with AFI 65-602, chapter
   11, paragraph 11.2.3.
   15.4. AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapter 11, provides additional guidance on RMS training.

16. Support Agreement Management. The base FMA office plays an important role in the manage-
ment of support agreements, as they have the responsibility to validate the costs and methodology used to
estimate tenant reimbursable support. The FMA office must ensure all reimbursable costs are captured
and accounted for in each support agreement. While the various unit support agreement monitors should
identify those reimbursable costs associated with their work centers, the FMA office needs to ensure these
individuals possess the required skills to cost out tenant reimbursable support. AFI 25-201, Support
Agreements Procedures, paragraphs 2.6. and 5.4., provides the responsibilities of the FMA office for sup-
port agreements, to include performing an annual budget review and comparing collected reimbursements
to the actual calculations identified in the support agreements. A revised Funding Annex, signed by both
the supplier and receiver (host and tenant) FMs, will be attached to the support agreement. See SAF/FM
memorandum dated 5 January 2004, Subject: Annual Budget Review for Support Agreements, for addi-
tional guidance. You may access a copy of this guidance on the Budget Policy page of the AMC/A8 web
at https://www.amcfm.scott.af.mil/FM_BudgetPolicyNotices.cfm.
   16.1. The Logistics Plans office, with the assistance of the FMA office, must ensure unit support
   agreement monitors are completely familiar with the support agreement process and are able to effec-
   tively fulfill their responsibilities. To accomplish this, we recommend you conduct co-sponsored sup-
   port agreement training sessions at least once a quarter. Training should cover at a minimum,
   incremental costing, acceptable cost techniques, and the billing/reimbursement process.
   16.2. AFI 65-601, Volume 1, chapter 7, provides guidance for host/tenant funding responsibilities.
   Support agreement policy is contained in DoDI 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support,
   implemented to Air Force users through AFI 25-201.
   16.3. DELETED.
18                AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


     DAVID E. PRICE, Colonel, USAF
     Comptroller

     (62AW)

     ROWAYNE A. SCHATZ, JR., Colonel, USAF
     Commander, 62d Airlift Wing
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                        19


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-213, Comptroller Operations Under Emergency Conditions
AFI 25-201, Support Agreement Procedures
AFI 38-301, Productivity Enhancing Capital Investment Programs
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures
AFI 65-601, Volume 2, Budget Management for Operations
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management
AFPD 65-6, Budget
DFAS-DE 7000.1-R, Responsibility Center/Cost Center Codes
DFAS-DE Interin Guidance, Accounting for Obligations
DoDFMR 7000.14, Volume 11B, Reimbursable Operations Policy and Procedures—Defense Working
Capital Fund
DoDI 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support
AMCI 65-602, TWCF Budget Guidance and Procedures
AMCPAM 65-603, Budget Operating Guidance

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A8—Financial Management and Comptroller (A-Staff)
A88—Financial Management and Comptroller – Budget
A88I—Financial Management and Comptroller – Budget Integration
A88IF—Financial Management and Comptroller – Budget Integration – Funds Control
A88O—Financial Management and Comptroller – Budget – O&M Operations
A88T—Financial Management and Comptroller – Budget – TWCF Operations
A87—Financial Management and Comptroller – Programs and Analysis
A-E—Architect-Engineer
AEP—Accrued Expenditures Paid
AEU—Accrued Expenditures Unpaid
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
20                                                        AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMCFSS—Air Mobility Command Financial Support Squadron
ARA—Alternate Resource Advisor
ASC—Allowance Source Code
AVPOL—Aviation Petroleum, Oil, and Lubricants
BA—Budget Activity
BAB—Budget Advisory Board
BER—Budget Execution Report
BPAC—Budget Project Account Code
BPIE—Base Procured Investment Equipment
CBAS—Command Budget Automated System
CC—Cost Center
CCM—Cost Center Manager
CE—Civil Engineering
CECMC—Civilian Employment Cost Management Committee
CSRD—C4 Systems Requirements Documents
CWDE—Chemical Warfare Defense Equipment
DFAS-OM—Defense Finance and Accounting Service - Omaha
EA—Economic Analysis
EEIC—Element of Expense and Investment Code
FAS/FES—Fuels Automated System/Fuels Enterprise Service
FASCAP—Fast Payback Capital Investment Program
FMA—Financial Management Analysis
FMB—Financial Management Board
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
FWG—Financial Working Group
FY—Fiscal Year
GSD—General Support Division
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HRMB—Human Resources Management Board
IMC—Interim Message Change
JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                 21


LGS—Logistics Supply (Chief of Supply)
MAJCOM—Major Command
MC—Minor Construction
MFH—Military Family Housing
MFR—Memorandum for Record
MR—Maintenance and Repair
MSD—Material Support Division
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OBAN—Operating Budget Account Number
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PEC—Program Element Code
PIF—Productivity Investment Fund
PBAS—Program Budget Accounting System
RA—Resource Advisor
RC—Responsibility Center
RC/CC—Responsibility Center/Cost Center
RCM—Responsibility Center Manager
RPIE—Real Property Installed Equipment
RPMC—Real Property Maintenance by Contract
RMS—Resource Management System
SC—Sales Code
SRM—Sustainment, Restoration and Maintenance
SRMC—Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization by Contract
SSS—Staff Summary Sheet
TWCF—Transportation Working Capital Fund
UOO—Undelivered Orders Outstanding
USTRANSCOM—United States Transportation Command
WinBAS—Windows Budget Automated System
WRDCO—Wing Refueling Document Control Officer
22                                                       AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


                                    Attachment 1 (62AW)

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures
AFI 65-601, Volume 2, Budget Management for Operations
AMCI 65-601, AMC Financial Management for Operations

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BA—Budget Activity
CCM—Cost Center Managers
FMB—Financial Management Board
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
RC—Responsibility Centers
RCM—Responsibility Center Managers
RMT—Resource Management Teams
SPEG—Strategic Planning Executive Group
TWCF—Transportation Working Capital Funds
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                    23


                                           Attachment 2

  EXAMPLE OF AMC BASE-LEVEL FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RESPONSIBILITY



201010 RCM
Wing Commander


LEVELS OF RESPONSIBILITY


1st Level RCs


20XXXX            21XXXX            23XXXX         24XXXX            35XXXX
RCM               RCM               RCM            RCM               RCM
Director of       Operations        Maintenance    Mission Spt       Medical
Staff             Group             Group          Group             Group




2nd Level RCs (not all inclusive)




201XXX            2113XX            2321XX         2416XX            355735
Staff             Operations        Maintenance    Mission           Medical
Agencies          Support           Operations     Support           Support
                  Squadron          Squadron       Squadron          Squadron

2215XX            2113XX            2322XX         2438XX            355737
Comptroller       Airlift           Aircraft       Comm              Medical
Squadron          Squadrons         Maintenance    Squadron          Operations
                                    Squadron                         Squadron


                                    2323XX         2443XX
                                    Maintenance    Security Forces
                                    Squadron       Squadron
24           AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006



     2444XX
     Civil Engineer
     Squadron


     2445XX
     Services
     Squadron


     2466XX
     Logistics
     Readiness
     Squadron
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                   25


                                           Attachment 3

                      FORMAT FOR PREPARATION OF FMB MINUTES



MEMORANDUM FOR                                                                     Date:


FROM: XXX WING/FMA


SUBJECT: Financial Management Board Meeting, FY02-3


1. Place:
2. Time:
3. Chairperson: Indicate grade, name, and office symbol.
4. Members Present: Indicate grade, name, and office symbol. When alternates or nonmembers
attend for an appointed member, please designate in parenthesis who they are representing, e.g., 375
SG/RM Col Smith (for Col Jones).
5. Members Absent: Indicate grade, name, and office symbol of those primary members absent and
not represented.
6. Others Present: Indicate grade, name, and office symbol of visitors.


DISCUSSION: As a minimum, minutes will include discussion of areas in paragraph 7.4. including
BA program versus execution analysis summary. Minutes should also indicate an informative
recapitulation of all other items discussed at the meeting.

NOTE: FMB minutes will be signed by the recorder and the commander or chairperson.


Attachment: Unfunded Requirements
26                                                               AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


                                              Attachment 4

                                 AMC AVPOL MONTHLY REPORT

      OBAN:            As Of:


                      FLYING            PRICE             CONSUM
     ACFT MDS         HOURS          PER GALLON            RATE             GALLONS           DOLLARS
        (1)             (2)               (3)               (4)                (5)              (6)

CURRENT
MONTH


CUM TO DATE
   (7)


FOOTNOTES:


(1) One line is required for each mission design series (MDS). Active duty and Reserve breakout is
required.


(2) Obtain flying hours from operations personnel, as reported through CAMS/G081.


(3) Price per gallon is computed by dividing the dollars (6) by the gallons (5).


(4) Consumption rate is computed by dividing the total gallons (5) by the flying hours (2).

(5) (6) Obtain gallons and dollars from the Fuels Automated System/Fuels Enterprise Service (FAS/
FES), administered by the Defense Energy Support Center (DESC), Ft Belvoir, VA.


(7) Two lines are required for each MDS (i.e., current month and cumulative).


OTHER NOTES:


1. Report is due to HQ AMC/FMB no later than the 15th calendar day of each month.


2. You may submit the AVPOL report via FAX, E-mail, or message.
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                          27


                                              Attachment 5

                SAMPLE LETTER OF RESOURCE ADVISOR APPOINTMENT



MEMORANDUM FOR (Resource Advisor’s Name)                                          Date:


FROM: Appointing Official (Responsibility Center Manager)


SUBJECT: Letter of Appointment


1. Effective this date, (resource advisor’s name, grade, branch of service) is appointed as a resource
advisor for the (applicable unit) in accordance with AFI 65-601, Volume 2, paragraph 2.11.2.


2. Your general responsibilities include actively participating in resource management; planning,
programming, and executing the organization’s budget; and acquiring, consuming, storing, disposing of
resources, and ensuring internal controls are established and maintained, to include proper recording of
financial transactions.


3. Attachment 1 contains a list of the most common tasks associated with your position as a resource
advisor. During your initial interview with your (supervisor, squadron resource advisor, group resource
advisor, or your responsibility center manager), (he or she) will determine which tasks will relate to your
current position and what proficiency level is required for each task.


4. Financial management training is available from (the base comptroller organization). The base or
installation comptroller is responsible for providing initial Resource Management System (RMS)
training within 90 days of this appointment. You will be given a letter or certificate to document the
receipt of initial RMS training. The comptroller will also provide a training plan to ensure you receive
all required task proficiency training within the following year. A financial analyst within the
Comptroller organization will oversee your training. The comptroller will designate appropriate task
trainers and certifiers to ensure you receive training to perform your tasks to the required proficiency
level. You will receive a certificate from the comptroller after completing all proficiency training.
Follow on training should be conducted annually.

5. Enlisted Financial Management (FM) career field (AFSC 6F0X1) resource advisors are required to be
certified on all FM core tasks in addition to your duty position tasks. The comptroller will designate a
trainer and certifier for the 11 core tasks.


6. Currently, there are several tools available to assist you with your training needs at the following web
sites:
28                                                             AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006



   1). A tutorial containing information on the basic functions and responsibilities associated with
financial Management, located at http://www.saffm.hq.af.mil/saffmra/index.html.
  2). On the Job Training (OJT) Guides for Resource Advisors, located at https://www.saffm.hq.af.mil/
ENL/training.html.
   3). Comprehensive training for newly appointed RAs, refresher training for experienced RAs, and five
specialty programs for unique programs: http://www.saffm.net/public/home.cfm.


7. I will send a copy of this letter to the base or installation comptroller to establish your training
schedule. You should hear from (him or her) within seven to ten days. Together with your trainer and
certifier, I will update the task list with completion dates once I am confident you have the ability to
perform the assigned tasks.




                                                                   Appointing Official’s Signature


2 Attachments:
1. Resource Management Tasks
2. Proficiency Codes


cc: (Installation Comptroller)
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006   29
30                                                           AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006



                                     PROFICIENCY CODES


      Level of        Scale   Definition: The Individual
     Proficiency      Value
                        1   Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown
                            how to do most of the task. (Extremely Limited)
        Task
                        2   Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on the
     Performance            hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
                        3   Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of
       Levels               completed work. (Competent)
                        4   Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or
                            show others how to do the task. (Highly Proficient)

                        a    Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task.
                             (Nomenclature)
       *Task            b    Can determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.
     Knowledge               (Procedures)
      Levels
                        c    Can identify why and when the task must be done and why
                             each step is needed. (Operating Principles)
                        d    Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.
                             (Advanced Theory)
                        A    Can identify base facts and terms about the subject.
      **Subject              (Facts)
                        B    Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general
     Knowledge               principles about the subject. (Principles)
                        C    Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about
       Levels
                             the subject. (Analysis)
                        D    Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about
                             the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations:

* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value
to define a level of knowledge for a specific task. (Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a
subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a subject common to several tasks.
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                         31


                                             Attachment 6

        SAMPLE LETTER OF RESOURCE ADVISOR TRAINING CERTIFICATE OF
                              COMPLETION



MEMORANDUM FOR (Unit Commander)                                                  Date:


FROM: (Installation Comptroller)


SUBJECT: Certificate of Completion – Resource Advisor Training


(Name, Grade, Branch of Service, Unit) has successfully completed training on the tasks you identified
in Attachment 1 (attach copy of completed task list). (His/her) trainer (trainer’s name/grade) and task
certifier (certifier’s name/grade) have assured me that (name/grade) can perform these tasks to the level
of proficiency you requested. We will provide recurring training through Financial Working Group
meetings and follow-on staff assistance visits to your organization. If you identify additional tasks that
(name/grade) must perform, please contact me so that we may schedule (name/grade) for further training.




                                                  Base or Installation Comptroller’s Signature


2 Attachments
1. Task List
2. Certificate
32   AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006   33
34                                                               AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


                                              Attachment 7

     IC 2003-1 TO AMCI 65-601, AMC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT FOR OPERATIONS
1 NOVEMBER 2003
OPR: AMCFSS/A8BI (Mr. Bill Bjornstad)
Certified by: HQ AMC/A8B (Col Edwin R. Newcome)
SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates Interim Change IC 03-1. Interim Change (IC) 03-1 to AMCI 65-601 changes
all references of HQ AMC/FM/FMB/FMP and AMCFSS/FMBI/FMBIF to HQ AMC/A8/A8B/A8P and
AMCFSS/A8BI/A8BIF respectively and adds AMCFSS/A8BO/A8BT (paragraph 10.1. and Attachment
1). It also revises the HQ AMC/A8 web site address, adds the download instructions to access the publi-
cation, and includes the AMC Publications web site address and download instructions (paragraph 3.).
Replaces unfunded requirements (UR) with Budget Execution Report (BER) (paragraphs 7.4.2.8., 8.8.,
and Attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting Information, Abbreviations and Acro-
nyms). Deletes paragraph 16.3. of the previous publication. Revises Attachment 2, Example of AMC
Base-Level Financial Structure and Responsibility, to incorporate changes resulting from implementa-
tion of the New Standard Wing Reorganization Structure. A copy of IC 03-1 is located at Attachment 7
of this publication. An asterisk indicates a change since the last revision.
2. Operational Risk Management (ORM). AFI 91-213, Operational Risk Management (ORM) Pro-
gram, defines ORM as “a logic-based common sense approach to making calculated decisions on human,
material, and environmental factors before, during, and after Air Force operations. It enables command-
ers, functional managers, and supervisors to maximize operational capabilities while minimizing risk by
applying a simple, systematic process appropriate for all personnel and Air Force functions.” ORM has 4
main principles: (1) accept no unnecessary risk; (2) make risk decisions at the appropriate level to estab-
lish clear accountability; (3) accept risk when the benefits outweigh the cost; and (4) integrate ORM into
Air Force Doctrine and planning at all levels. AMC/A8 has directed the implementation of the ORM fun-
damentals and philosophy into all aspects of our financial management culture in accordance with AFI
91-213.
3. Distribution. This AMCI is available on the AMC/A8 web at the following address: https://
www.amcfm.scott.af.mil/FM_BudgetPolicy.cfm. (NOTE: There is an underscore character (_) between
“FM” and “Budget”.) To access the link to the publication, click on the “Budget Policy” key located under
the “Navigate” menu; then select it under “Policy Guidance” menu. You may download the publication at
any time and reproduce in sufficient copies to allow distribution to local financial managers, as deter-
mined by the local Comptroller. AMCI 65-601 is also available on the AMC Publications web site: https:/
/www.amc.af.mil/pubs/hqamc.htm. Click on the “65-Series Financial Management” block and select on
“AMCI 65-601”.
4. Updates. HQ AMC/A8B will provide changes by page replacements and inserts or interim message
changes (IMC), and will also make them available via the HQ AMC/A8 web, provided in paragraph 3.
above. You may submit suggestions for updates to AMCFSS/A8BI, Attn: Budget Policy and Procedures,
402 Scott Drive, Unit 1K1, Scott AFB Il 62225-5311. Use AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication. Please be specific as to the purpose of your suggestion. Provide as much information as
possible to include the benefits derived from your proposed change.
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                          35


7.4.1.4. The prioritized unfunded requirements list (see paragraph 8.8. of this instruction) before submis-
sion to HQ AMC/A8B (O&M 3400, TWCF, MFH, and 3080).
7.4.2.8. Prioritized requirements on the Budget Execution Report (BER) lists (O&M, TWCF, MFH, and
3080 BPAC 845010).
7.4.2.9. Funding received from AMCFSS/A8BIF since last FMB.
8.2. You should distribute annual (TWCF) and quarterly (O&M 3400, MFH) funding authorizations as
accurately as possible to the applicable BA, EEIC, RC/CC, and program element codes (PEC) where you
anticipate the expenditures/obligations. HQ AMC/A8B as well as SAF/FMB monitors status reports
reflecting the distribution of the annual and quarterly programs, as well as actual expenditures/ obliga-
tions incurred to date. Failure to properly distribute annual and quarterly funding authorizations and to
properly record expenditures/obligations may provide misleading information concerning the financial
status of the wing and the command.
8.5. Funding documents (CBAS for Air Force O&M appropriations, MFH, and TWCF, and PBAS for
DoD 97-type appropriations) issued by AMCFSS/A8BIF display financial data by BA (O&M 3400), bud-
get program and project (TWCF and MFH), and BPAC (3080 appropriation). The FMB and FWG must
ensure a balanced program within total fund availability. The Funds Control section (AMCFSS/A8BIF)
of HQ AMC/A8B provides the Defense Finance and Accounting Service at Omaha NE (DFAS-OM) a
copy of all funding documents issued to AMC bases.
8.6. All AMC funding points have the flexibility to reprogram funds throughout the fiscal year, except as
specifically provided in the HQ AMC/A8B funding document or as restricted by legal limitations on
appropriations. However, in order to eliminate “expense, obligation, and commitment chasing,” you
should accomplish any reprogramming actions only after a close review of obligation and expense rates,
program changes, and forecasted requirements.
8.7. HQ AMC/A8B retains no “reserve” other than those funds targeted for centrally managed programs
(sustainment, restoration, and modernization by contract (SRMC), A-E design, chemical warfare defense
equipment (CWDE), Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) Exercises, etc.), identified to the HQ AMC Budget Advi-
sory Board (BAB) and approved by AMC/CC. At the beginning of each fiscal year, HQ AMC/A8B issues
each AMC wing/funding point a viable operating program. The only other sources of subsequent funding
increases will be program slippages within the command or additional Air Force (O&M 3400, MFH) or
USTRANSCOM (TWCF) funding based on the command’s total unfunded requirements.
8.8. Traditionally, funds allocated to an organization do not usually satisfy total requirements. It is the
responsibility of the wing/group commanders, through their FMB and FWG, to ensure critical
“hard-core” mission items are funded. Each AMC base/funding point will submit their BER, as required,
via the HQ AMC/A8 web at https://www.amcfm.scott.af.mil. (NOTE: This access is available only dur-
ing the time of each BER drill (February and July).) This will be the source of information used when HQ
AMC/A8B briefs the command BER to the BAB to prioritize funding requirements, and to AMC/CV/CC
for approval to release available funds. The BER submission should reflect all items that you currently
cannot cover with your existing program due to the funding of higher priority requirements. The com-
mand BER list is not static; items on the list will shift as priorities change. Since HQ AMC/A8B uses the
BER list for command justification to SAF/FMB and funds release, it is imperative they be realistic and
meaningful. Specific guidance will be issued prior to each BER call.
10.1. You may request quarterly adjustments through your AMCFSS/A8BO/A8BT base analyst no later
than the fifth day of the last month of each quarter, when possible.
36                                                              AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


11. AVPOL Monthly Report. The O&M and TWCF AVPOL report (see Attachment 4) must arrive at
HQ AMC/A8B no later than the 15th calendar day of each month, based on data provided by the wing
Operations RA or the wing refueling document control officer (WRDCO), as appropriate.
12. Fiscal Year-End Close-Out. HQ AMC/A8B will issue annual fiscal year-end close-out guidance out-
lining SAF/FMB, MAJCOM, and base procedures, responsibilities, and reports. Bases should establish a
close-out committee addressing close-out actions, etc., in May of each year.
13.1.2. The FWG prioritizes the validated 3080 requirements and FMA officer presents the FWG recom-
mended priority sequence to the FMB for final approval of the installation’s investment equipment (3080)
budget. The FMA office then submits the 3080 budget to HQ AMC/A8B.
14. Foreign Military Sales (FMS) Administration Funding. AMC organizations that control FMS
Administration funding will recoup or reimburse all FMS costs on a monthly basis to the correct appropri-
ation. AMC-financed appropriations must not subsidize any FMS administrative costs. Forward any
change to projected FMS obligations to HQ AMC/A8P, 402 Scott Drive, Unit 1K1, Scott AFB IL
62225-5311.
16.3. DELETED.
                                             Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures
AFI 38-301, Productivity Enhancing Capital Investment Programs
AFI 65-6, Budget
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures
AFI 65-601, Volume 2, Budget Management for Operations
AFI 91-213. Operational Risk Management (ORM) Program
DFAS-DE 7000.1-R, Responsibility Center/Cost Center Codes
DoDFMR 7000.14, Volume 11B, Reimbursable Operations, Policy and Procedures, Defense Business
Operations Fund
DoDI 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support
Abbreviations and Acronyms
A8—Financial Management and Comptroller (A-Staff)
A8B—Financial Management and Comptroller – Budget
A8BI—Financial Management and Comptroller – Budget Integration
A8BIF—Financial Management and Comptroller – Budget Integration – Funds Control
A8BO—Financial Management and Comptroller – Budget – O&M Operations
A8BT—Financial Management and Comptroller – Budget – TWCF Operations
A8P—Financial Management and Comptroller – Programs and Analysis
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                            37


A-E—Architect-Engineer
AEP—Accrued Expenditures Paid
AEU—Accrued Expenditures Unpaid
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMCFSS—Air Mobility Command Financial Support Squadron
ARA—Alternate Resource Advisor
ASC—Allowance Source Code
AVPOL—Aviation Petroleum, Oil, and Lubricants
BA—Budget Activity
BAB—Budget Advisory Board
BER—Budget Execution Report
BPAC—Budget Project Account Code
BPIE—Base Procured Investment Equipment
CBAS—Command Budget Automated System
CC—Cost Center
CCM—Cost Center Manager
CE—Civil Engineering
CECMC—Civilian Employment Cost Management Committee
CSRD—C4 Systems Requirements Documents
CWDE—Chemical Warfare Defense Equipment
DFAS-OM—Defense Finance and Accounting Service - Omaha
EA—Economic Analysis
EEIC—Element of Expense and Investment Code
FAS/FES—Fuels Automated System/Fuels Enterprise Service
FASCAP—Fast Payback Capital Investment Program
FMA—Financial Management Analysis
FMB—Financial Management Board
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
FWG—Financial Working Group
38                                                      AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


FY—Fiscal Year
GSD—General Support Division
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HRMB—Human Resources Management Board
IMC—Interim Message Change
JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff
LGS—Logistics Supply (Chief of Supply)
MAJCOM—Major Command
MC—Minor Construction
MFH—Military Family Housing
MFR—Memorandum for Record
MR—Maintenance and Repair
MSD—Material Support Division
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OBAN—Operating Budget Account Number
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PEC—Program Element Code
PIF—Productivity Investment Fund
PBAS—Program Budget Accounting System
RA—Resource Advisor
RC—Responsibility Center
RC/CC—Responsibility Center/Cost Center
RCM—Responsibility Center Manager
RPIE—Real Property Installed Equipment
RPMC—Real Property Maintenance by Contract
RMS—Resource Management System
SC—Sales Code
SRM—Sustainment, Restoration and Maintenance
SRMC—Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization by Contract
SSS—Staff Summary Sheet
TWCF—Transportation Working Capital Fund
UOO—Undelivered Orders Outstanding
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                39


USTRANSCOM—United States Transportation Command
WinBAS—Windows Budget Automated System
WRDCO—Wing Refueling Document Control Officer


                                           Attachment 2
  EXAMPLE OF AMC BASE-LEVEL FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RESPONSIBILITY



201010 RCM
Wing Commander


LEVELS OF RESPONSIBILITY


1st Level RCs


20XXXX            21XXXX            23XXXX         24XXXX        35XXXX
RCM               RCM               RCM            RCM           RCM
Director of       Operations        Maintenance    Mission Spt   Medical
Staff             Group             Group          Group         Group




2nd Level RCs (not all inclusive)




201XXX            2113XX            2321XX         2416XX        355735
Staff             Operations        Maintenance    Mission       Medical
Agencies          Support           Operations     Support       Support
                  Squadron          Squadron       Squadron      Squadron


2215XX            2113XX            2322XX         2438XX        355737
Comptroller       Airlift           Aircraft       Comm          Medical
Squadron          Squadrons         Maintenance    Squadron      Operations
                                    Squadron                     Squadron
40                         AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006



     2323XX        2443XX
     Maintenance   Security Forces
     Squadron      Squadron


                   2444XX
                   Civil Engineer
                   Squadron


                   2445XX
                   Services
                   Squadron


                   2466XX
                   Logistics
                   Readiness
                   Squadron
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                            41


                                              Attachment 8

     IC 2004-1 TO AMCI 65-601, AMC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT FOR OPERATIONS
1 APRIL 2004
OPR: AMCFSS/A88I (Mr. Bill Bjornstad)
Certified by: HQ AMC/A88 (Col Edwin R. Newcome)
SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates Interim Change IC 04-1. Interim Change (IC) 04-1 to AMCI 65-601 changes
all references of HQ AMC/A8B/A8P/A8BO and AMCFSS/A8BI/A8BIF/A8BT in the previous edition to
HQ AMC/A88/A87/A88O and AMCFSS/A88I/A88IF/A88T respectively. Paragraph 2. changes the
ORM reference from AFI 91-213 to AFI 90-901 as well as revising the verbiage. A copy of IC 04-1 is
located at Attachment 8 of this publication.
2. Operational Risk Management (ORM). AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, defines ORM
as a decision-making process to systematically evaluate possible courses of action, identify risks and ben-
efits, and determine the best course of action for any given situation. It enables commanders, functional
managers, and supervisors to maximize operational capabilities while minimizing risk by applying a sim-
ple, systematic process appropriate for all personnel functions, both on- and off-duty. ORM has four main
principles: (1) accept no unnecessary risk; (2) make risk decisions at the appropriate level; (3) accept risk
when the benefits outweigh the cost; and (4) integrate ORM into operations and planning at all levels.
AMC/A8 has directed the implementation of the ORM fundamentals and philosophy into all aspects of
our financial management culture in accordance with AFI 90-901.
3. Distribution. This AMCI is available on the AMC/A8 web at the following address: https://
www.amcfm.scott.af.mil/FM_BudgetPolicy.cfm. (NOTE: There is an underscore character (_) between
“FM” and “Budget”.) To access the link to the publication, click on the “Budget Policy” key located under
the “Navigate” menu; then select it under “Policy Guidance” menu. You may download the publication at
any time and reproduce in sufficient copies to allow distribution to local financial managers, as deter-
mined by the local Comptroller. AMCI 65-601 is also available on the AMC Publications web site:
https://private.amc.af.mil/pubs/hqamc.htm . Click on the “65-Series Financial Management” block
and select on “AMCI 65-601”.
4. Updates. HQ AMC/A88 will provide changes by page replacements and inserts or interim message
changes (IMC), and will also make them available via the HQ AMC/A8 web, provided in paragraph 3.
above. You may submit suggestions for updates to AMCFSS/A88I, Attn: Budget Policy and Procedures,
402 Scott Drive, Unit 1K1, Scott AFB Il 62225-5311. Use AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication. Please be specific as to the purpose of your suggestion. Provide as much information as
possible to include the benefits derived from your proposed change.
7.4.1.4. The prioritized unfunded requirements list (see paragraph 8.8. of this instruction) before submis-
sion to HQ AMC/A88 (O&M 3400, TWCF, MFH, and 3080).
7.4.2.9. Funding received from AMCFSS/A88IF since last FMB.
8.2. You should distribute annual (TWCF) and quarterly (O&M 3400, MFH) funding authorizations as
accurately as possible to the applicable BA, EEIC, RC/CC, and program element codes (PEC) where you
anticipate the expenditures/obligations. HQ AMC/A88 as well as SAF/FMB monitors status reports
42                                                               AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


reflecting the distribution of the annual and quarterly programs, as well as actual expenditures/ obliga-
tions incurred to date. Failure to properly distribute annual and quarterly funding authorizations and to
properly record expenditures/obligations may provide misleading information concerning the financial
status of the wing and the command.
8.5. Funding documents (CBAS for Air Force O&M appropriations, MFH, and TWCF, and PBAS for
DoD 97-type appropriations) issued by AMCFSS/A88IF display financial data by BA (O&M 3400), bud-
get program and project (TWCF and MFH), and BPAC (3080 appropriation). The FMB and FWG must
ensure a balanced program within total fund availability. The Funds Control section (AMCFSS/A88IF) of
HQ AMC/A88 provides the Defense Finance and Accounting Service at Omaha NE (DFAS-OM) a copy
of all funding documents issued to AMC bases.
8.6. All AMC funding points have the flexibility to reprogram funds throughout the fiscal year, except as
specifically provided in the HQ AMC/A88 funding document or as restricted by legal limitations on
appropriations. However, in order to eliminate “expense, obligation, and commitment chasing,” you
should accomplish any reprogramming actions only after a close review of obligation and expense rates,
program changes, and forecasted requirements.
8.7. HQ AMC/A88 retains no “reserve” other than those funds targeted for centrally managed programs
(sustainment, restoration, and modernization by contract (SRMC), A-E design, chemical warfare defense
equipment (CWDE), Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) Exercises, etc.), identified to the HQ AMC Budget Advi-
sory Board (BAB) and approved by AMC/CC. At the beginning of each fiscal year, HQ AMC/A88 issues
each AMC wing/funding point a viable operating program. The only other sources of subsequent funding
increases will be program slippages within the command or additional Air Force (O&M 3400, MFH) or
USTRANSCOM (TWCF) funding based on the command’s total unfunded requirements.
8.8. Traditionally, funds allocated to an organization do not usually satisfy total requirements. It is the
responsibility of the wing/group commanders, through their FMB and FWG, to ensure critical
“hard-core” mission items are funded. Each AMC base/funding point will submit their BER, as required,
via the HQ AMC/A8 web at https://www.amcfm.scott.af.mil. (NOTE: This access is available only dur-
ing the time of each BER drill (February and July).) This will be the source of information used when HQ
AMC/A88 briefs the command BER to the BAB to prioritize funding requirements, and to AMC/CV/CC
for approval to release available funds. The BER submission should reflect all items that you currently
cannot cover with your existing program due to the funding of higher priority requirements. The com-
mand BER list is not static; items on the list will shift as priorities change. Since HQ AMC/A88 uses the
BER list for command justification to SAF/FMB and funds release, it is imperative they be realistic and
meaningful. Specific guidance will be issued prior to each BER call.
10.1. You may request quarterly adjustments through your HQ AMC/A88O or AMCFSS/A88T base ana-
lyst no later than the fifth day of the last month of each quarter, when possible.
11. AVPOL Monthly Report. The O&M and TWCF AVPOL report (see Attachment 4) must arrive at
HQ AMC/A88 no later than the 15th calendar day of each month, based on data provided by the wing
Operations RA or the wing refueling document control officer (WRDCO), as appropriate.
12. Fiscal Year-End Close-Out. HQ AMC/A88 will issue annual fiscal year-end close-out guidance out-
lining SAF/FMB, MAJCOM, and base procedures, responsibilities, and reports. Bases should establish a
close-out committee addressing close-out actions, etc., in May of each year.
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                        43


13.1.2. The FWG prioritizes the validated 3080 requirements and FMA officer presents the FWG recom-
mended priority sequence to the FMB for final approval of the installation’s investment equipment (3080)
budget. The FMA office then submits the 3080 budget to HQ AMC/A88.
14. Foreign Military Sales (FMS) Administration Funding. AMC organizations that control FMS
Administration funding will recoup or reimburse all FMS costs on a monthly basis to the correct appropri-
ation. AMC-financed appropriations must not subsidize any FMS administrative costs. Forward any
change to projected FMS obligations to HQ AMC/A87, 402 Scott Drive, Unit 1K1, Scott AFB IL
62225-5311.
                                             Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFI 25-201, Support Agreement Procedures
AFI 38-301, Productivity Enhancing Capital Investment Programs
AFI 65-6, Budget
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures
AFI 65-601, Volume 2, Budget Management for Operations
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management
DFAS-DE 7000.1-R, Responsibility Center/Cost Center Codes
DoDFMR 7000.14, Volume 11B, Reimbursable Operations Policy and Procedures—Defense Working
Capital Fund
DoDI 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support
Abbreviations and Acronyms
A8—Financial Management and Comptroller (A-Staff)
A88—Financial Management and Comptroller – Budget
A88I—Financial Management and Comptroller – Budget Integration
A88IF—Financial Management and Comptroller – Budget Integration – Funds Control
A88O—Financial Management and Comptroller – Budget – O&M Operations
A88T—Financial Management and Comptroller – Budget – TWCF Operations
A87—Financial Management and Comptroller – Programs and Analysis
A-E—Architect-Engineer
AEP—Accrued Expenditures Paid
AEU—Accrued Expenditures Unpaid
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
44                                                        AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMCFSS—Air Mobility Command Financial Support Squadron
ARA—Alternate Resource Advisor
ASC—Allowance Source Code
AVPOL—Aviation Petroleum, Oil, and Lubricants
BA—Budget Activity
BAB—Budget Advisory Board
BER—Budget Execution Report
BPAC—Budget Project Account Code
BPIE—Base Procured Investment Equipment
CBAS—Command Budget Automated System
CC—Cost Center
CCM—Cost Center Manager
CE—Civil Engineering
CECMC—Civilian Employment Cost Management Committee
CSRD—C4 Systems Requirements Documents
CWDE—Chemical Warfare Defense Equipment
DFAS-OM—Defense Finance and Accounting Service - Omaha
EA—Economic Analysis
EEIC—Element of Expense and Investment Code
FAS/FES—Fuels Automated System/Fuels Enterprise Service
FASCAP—Fast Payback Capital Investment Program
FMA—Financial Management Analysis
FMB—Financial Management Board
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
FWG—Financial Working Group
FY—Fiscal Year
GSD—General Support Division
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HRMB—Human Resources Management Board
IMC—Interim Message Change
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                 45


JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff
LGS—Logistics Supply (Chief of Supply)
MAJCOM—Major Command
MC—Minor Construction
MFH—Military Family Housing
MFR—Memorandum for Record
MR—Maintenance and Repair
MSD—Material Support Division
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OBAN—Operating Budget Account Number
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PEC—Program Element Code
PIF—Productivity Investment Fund
PBAS—Program Budget Accounting System
RA—Resource Advisor
RC—Responsibility Center
RC/CC—Responsibility Center/Cost Center
RCM—Responsibility Center Manager
RPIE—Real Property Installed Equipment
RPMC—Real Property Maintenance by Contract
RMS—Resource Management System
SC—Sales Code
SRM—Sustainment, Restoration and Maintenance
SRMC—Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization by Contract
SSS—Staff Summary Sheet
TWCF—Transportation Working Capital Fund
UOO—Undelivered Orders Outstanding
USTRANSCOM—United States Transportation Command
WinBAS—Windows Budget Automated System
WRDCO—Wing Refueling Document Control Officer
46                                        AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


                        Attachment 8 (62AW)

     SAMPLE LETTER QUARTERLY PROJECTIONS FORMAT (CUMULATIVE)
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                          47


                                              Attachment 9

     IC 2004-2 TO AMCI 65-601, AMC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT FOR OPERATIONS
1 NOVEMBER 2004
OPR: AMCFSS/A88I (Mr. Bill Bjornstad)
Certified by: HQ AMC/A88 (Col (S) Michael E. Phelps)
SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates Interim Change IC 04-2. Interim Change (IC) 04-2 to AMCI 65-601 revises
paragraphs 1., 3., and 4. for additional clarification. Added new guidance (paragraphs 6.1. through
6.2.3.5. and paragraphs 6.7. through 6.7.3.10.4.) under paragraph 6. to reflect specific duties and respon-
sibilities of the Financial Management Analysis (FMA) office. Renumbered paragraphs 6.1. through 6.4.
of the previous publication to paragraphs 6.3. through 6.6. respectively. Paragraph 15., replaced
“Resource Advisor (RA) Training” with “Resource Management System (RMS) Training” in the 1st sen-
tence. Revised paragraph 15.1.4. to reflect RCM and RA training begins within 30 days after appoint-
ment. Added paragraph 15.1.5. on RMS follow-on training. Revised paragraph 16. by adding the HQ
AMC/A8 web site access for the SAF/FM memorandum on Annual Budget Review for Support Agree-
ments.
1. General. Financial managers require a continuing awareness and involvement by all resource managers
to achieve mission objectives within the approved annual financial operating program. This instruction
pertains primarily to the management of funds for the Operations and Maintenance (O&M) 3400 pro-
gram, the Military Family Housing (MFH) program, base-procured investment equipment (3080 appro-
priation) program, and the Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF) operating and capital
programs. Procedures not applicable to these programs are specified. AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget
Guidance and Procedures, provides funding guidance for O&M 3400, MFH, and 3080 procurement
appropriations and AMCI 65-602, TWCF Budget Guidance and Procedures, provides funding guidance
on the TWCF (97X4930.FD40) appropriation.
3. Distribution. This AMCI is available on the AMC/A8 web at the following address: https://
www.amcfm.scott.af.mil/FM_BudgetPolicy.cfm. To access the publication link, click on the “Budget
Policy” key located under the “Navigate” menu; then select “AMCI 65-601” under “Policy Guidance”
menu. You may download the publication at any time and reproduce in sufficient copies to allow distribu-
tion to local financial managers, as determined by the local Comptroller. AMCI 65-601 is also available
on the AMC Publications web site: https://private.amc.af.mil/pubs/hqamc.htm. Click on the “65-Series
Financial Management” block and select on “AMCI 65-601”.
4. Updates. HQ AMC/A88 will provide revisions to AMCI 65-601 through interim change (IC) releases
or a complete revision to the instruction. You may submit suggestions for updates to AMCFSS/A88I,
Attn: Budget Policy and Procedures, 402 Scott Drive, Unit 1K1, Scott AFB Il 62225-5311. Use AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Please be specific as to the purpose of your suggestion.
Provide as much information as possible to include the benefits derived from your proposed change.
6. Financial Management Responsibilities.
6.1. Financial Management Analysis (FMA) Office. Preparation and execution of the financial plan for
the unit is the responsibility of the AMC wing or other AMC funding points’ (e.g., AMC tenants at other
48                                                               AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


major command (MAJCOM) locations or other unique AMC organizations located on AMC wings) FMA
office. For the purpose of discussion, all references to AMC wings below will also include all other AMC
funding points that submit financial plans to HQ AMC/A88.
6.2. Review and Validation of Unit Financial Requirements. AMC FMA offices review and validate
financial plan inputs, execution plans, mid-year revisions and other inputs to the command by its units.
FMA offices validate and rank unit unfunded requirements to reflect the financial status of the unit and
priorities of the wing commander. Submit only those items beyond the funding capability of the unit (in
priority order) to HQ AMC/A88 for use in developing command priorities.
6.2.1. Financial Plan. Each AMC wing supports the command effort to formulate a budget submission to
the Air Staff. These inputs are generally due in March and the command financial plan is due in May.
Unit inputs are routed through the local wing/funding point for review, validation and consolidation.
Wings are required to follow command guidance and explain all unit requirements. See AMCPAM
65-603, Budget Operating Guidance, chapter 3, paragraph 3.7. for additional guidance concerning the
AMC O&M Financial Plan and TWCF Budget Estimate Submission requirements.
6.2.2. Budget Execution Reviews (BER). AMC wings identify unfunded requirements and/or excess
funds for possible reprogramming against higher priority needs. The command financial structure reviews
and validates wing inputs against obligation profiles and available resources to determine potential fund-
ing adjustments. Requirements that exceed command-wide resources are prioritized and submitted by HQ
AMC/A88 to the Air Staff for funding consideration. AMC FMA offices submit their prioritized BER
requirements to HQ AMC/A88 over the Internet through the HQ AMC/A8 web site. HQ AMC/A88 pro-
vides the rules governing AMC BER policy in the annual BER guidance package, normally disseminated
in January. See paragraph 8.8. of this instruction for additional guidance on BER submissions.
6.2.3. Fiscal Year-End Closeout. AMC Wing FMA offices serve as the base focal point for all closeout
issues and should establish local procedures and ensure they are followed. HQ AMC/A88 provides
year-end budget and reporting guidance each year to assist in the closeout process. The closeout objective
is to maximize the use of current year funding and minimize potential fall-in or fall-out in the following
fiscal year. To achieve this goal, AMC wing FMA offices must ensure controls are established to account
for and properly obligate all valid current year requirements within available funding.
6.2.3.1. Maintain a prioritized list of approved unfunded requirements that may be obligated before
end-of-year final reporting.
6.2.3.2. Notify HQ AMC/A88 of any O&M/TWCF funds that cannot be obligated/expensed as soon as
possible but no later than 24 hours prior to year-end closeout (30 September).
6.2.3.3. Establish procedures to ensure all unliquidated obligations, particularly those supported by mis-
cellaneous obligation reimbursement documents (MORDs), are recorded.
6.2.3.4. Coordinate with base supply and the contracting office to ensure timely obligation of funds.
Ensure adjustments to contractual documents are coordinated with contracting and necessary modifica-
tions are issued. Check with the accounting liaison office to determine when documents have been
received and recorded. Ensure MORDs for year-end adjustments are established per DFAS-DE Interim
Guidance, Accounting for Obligations, April 2000.
See AMCPAM 65-603, chapter 22, for additional information concerning closeout guidance.
6.3. Financial Management. Financial management is a continuous changing process, and while the
responsibility rests with the commander, the focus of primary financial management emphasis is at the
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                            49


second level responsibility center (RC), structured per Attachment 2. It is at this point in the organiza-
tional chain that significant planning and programming decisions are made. Subject to any restrictions and
limitations imposed by law, higher authority, or the commander, the second level RC has complete flexi-
bility to use allocated funds to accomplish the mission. For financial management purposes, you should
view the second level RC as a separate entity consisting of subordinate (third or fourth level) cost centers
(CC). All funding requirements should accumulate upward from CCs, to the second level RCs, to the 1st
level RC; conversely, approved programs distribute downward. All budget submissions and unfunded
(BER) requirements funnel through the second level RA for approval by the second level RCM, then to
1st level RCM for approval before forwarding to the FMA office. You should resolve funding problems
within the second level RC organization by reprogramming, revising, deferring, etc., among subordinate
RCs and CCs before elevating to the Financial Management Board (FMB) or commander for resolution.
The Group RA reviews all subordinate RC budget submissions and unfunded requirements in order to
advise the Group Commander (RCM) in preparation for FMB action.
6.4. Financial Policy. The FMA office will provide all commanders, RCMs and RAs documented guid-
ance on any new AMC command financial policies that affect their operating programs. This guidance
can be in the form of periodic policy letters, E-mail, base-wide bulletins, and briefings at staff meetings
and/or financial committee meetings.
6.5. Loading Targets. Establish annual and quarterly fund targets according to the policies enumerated in
this instruction, AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapters 7 and 10, and DFAS-DE 7000.1-R, Responsibility Cen-
ter/Cost Center Codes. You should target O&M and TWCF funding authorities (obligation and expense
authority respectively) to those RCs who exercise significant management control. FMA offices will bal-
ance command funding documents to annual and quarterly targets loaded in the accounting system for all
fiscal years and fund codes at least monthly.
6.6. Base-Level Financial Structure. See Attachment 2 for an example of a typical AMC wing financial
structure.
6.7. Unit Responsibilities.
6.7.1. Unit Commanders. Commanders are responsible for the productive, prudent, and lawful use of allo-
cated resources under public law, established directives and guidance provided. Commanders should sup-
port and actively participate in all phases of resource management.
6.7.2. Base Comptrollers. Base comptrollers are required to establish and maintain an effective financial
management structure for base level and subordinate units. Their interaction with the commander, RCMs,
functional area experts, and other RMS players sets the tone for the unit financial management program.
6.7.3. FMA Officers. Basic responsibilities outlined in AFI 65-601, Volume 2, are to (1) help prepare,
revise and carry out financial plans and (2) review and analyze accounting data to help match available
funds against programmed requirements. Additional responsibilities are as follows:
6.7.3.1. Financial Coding Structure. HQ AMC/A88I will develop a financial coding structure guide for
AMC FMA offices. The guide will include AMC Element of Expense/Investment Code (EEIC), Emer-
gency and Special Program (ESP), Program Element Codes (PECs), limitations, and sales codes. All
changes to coding structure must be coordinated with HQ AMC/A88I and the appropriate accounting
activity.
6.7.3.2. FMA officers will assist the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) field site and
accounting liaison office assign appropriate EEICs, RC/CCs and other appropriation and reporting ele-
50                                                                  AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


ments, i.e., sales codes, functional categories, and ESP codes. Accounting reports and commitment/obli-
gation documents should be reviewed to ensure proper appropriation data elements are being used.
6.7.3.3. Funding Documents. Maintain a file of all funding documents and messages received from HQ
AMC/A88I. Coordinate with the accounting liaison office to ensure all funding messages or memoran-
dums of telephone funding actions have been received and are posted to the accounting records. Consult
with the accounting liaison section before end-of-month to verify accounting records agree with funding
documents. (NOTE: If passage of defense appropriations or other funds distribution from the Air Staff is
delayed, HQ AMC/A88 will issue interim guidance. This normally provides authority to go on with
essential activities consistent with the prior year level of effort).
6.7.3.4. Funding Limitations. Set up local controls and procedures to ensure full compliance with all legal
and administrative limitations. Review status at least quarterly, or more frequently, as required, at Finan-
cial Management Board (FMB) and Financial Working Group (FWG) meetings (see paragraphs 7.1. and
7.5. of this instruction). Report suspected Anti-Deficiency Act violations to HQ AMC/A87 and coordi-
nate with the local accounting liaison office.
6.7.3.5. Program Development. Take part in the planning process to ensure all budgeting and funding
considerations are included. Attend local meetings where plans and programs impacting appropriated
funds are discussed. Research, formulate and validate cost data, work units and cost factors used in finan-
cial plan preparation, revision and management decisions.
6.7.3.6. Program Review and Analysis. Analyze adequacy of funding to meet approved program objec-
tives. Ensure essential mission and support requirements are funded. Identify unfunded requirements and
make every effort to satisfy these requirements internally through reprogramming and through other
economies.
6.7.3.6.1. Program Balance and Reprogramming. Identify inequities in funds distribution and research
sources for potential reprogramming adjustments. Review reprogramming requests to ensure they are
equitable, meet mission objectives, and are in compliance with current limitations and other appropriate
guidance. Reprogramming EEICs 480XX, 52XXX, 532XX, 534XX, and 6XX between facility projects
or Unaccompanied Personnel Furnishings Investment Program (UPFIP) requires HQ AMC/A78/A88
advance approval.
6.7.3.6.2. Investigate variances and trends between actual obligation rates and planned targets. Keep staff,
operating units, and financial management committees informed on all findings and recommend correc-
tive action, i.e. policies, reprogramming, or controls, if necessary.
6.7.3.7. Emergency Requirements. Occasionally, an emergency will arise that needs an immediate fund-
ing solution, i.e., catastrophic electric or water line failure, or natural disaster response. Procedures are as
follows:
6.7.3.7.1. With unit commander approval, use local funds to support emergency actions to protect human
life, government property or facilities. Identify all associated expenses using a local ESP code. NOTE:
HQ AMC/A88 or SAF/FMBMM may issue a MAJCOM or Air Force ESP code to track costs for unique
circumstances (e.g., hurricane evacuation, disaster relief support, etc.). HQ AMC/A88 may also direct the
use of AMC ESP code AR (Alpha Romeo) to capture costs incident to the recovery, repair, and replace-
ment of assets (facilities, equipment, infrastructure, etc.) along with any Air Force personal property
resulting from damage or destruction due to natural disasters of Acts of God, to the extent authorized by
statute or fiscal law.
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                            51


6.7.3.7.2. Instruct unit civil engineer personnel to identify requirement(s) to their command counterparts,
if applicable, and follow specific HQ AMC/A7 emergency project reporting procedures.
6.7.3.7.3. Units should immediately notify their FMA office by telephone to advise them of the circum-
stances and estimated cost. Follow up with written confirmation.
FMAs will in turn notify HQ AMC/A88 by telephone and follow up with a confirming message or e-mail.
Submit Natural Disaster Report as directed by AMC General Fiscal Guidance. The report should be sub-
mitted by applicable appropriation.
6.7.3.7.4. If a contractor is involved, notify the appropriate contracting officer before any action is taken
to obligate the government. (NOTE: For procedures resulting from emergency conditions as a result of
wartime activities, reference AFI 10-213, Comptroller Operations Under Emergency Conditions).
6.7.3.8. Staff Assistance to Subordinate Units.
6.7.3.8.1. Provide technical help to responsibility center managers, resource advisors, subordinate units,
other staff officials and tenant units in the development of operating budgets and financial plans, and to
carry out approved programs.
6.7.3.8.2. Provide financial management policy decisions and procedural guidance to appropriate
resource management personnel.
6.7.3.8.3. Maintain personal contact with operating activities to be familiar with functions, plans, accom-
plishments and problems.
6.7.3.9. Quality Assurance Program.
6.7.3.9.1. Use checklists to make sure all functional responsibilities are accomplished and comply with
standard self-inspection program procedures. Develop local checklists or use those provided by HQ
AMC/A8 and supplement as needed.
6.7.3.9.2. Review AMC reports from other bases and check for like deficiencies.
6.7.3.10. Other Administrative Functions.
6.7.3.10.1. Resource Management System (RMS) Administration. Ensure administrative requirements of
wing or unit financial management committees are developed and maintained including membership
appointments, meeting notifications, agenda, briefing requirements, development of financial manage-
ment policies and fund controls, implementation of USAF, AMC and local policies and directives, and
appropriate minutes of meetings.
6.7.3.10.2. Resource Management Team (RMT). Participate in RMT visits to RC/CCs to give help and
advice, to gather and distribute new resource management ideas, and to identify restricting policies and
procedures. RMT visits are not mandatory. However, an active program at AMC units is encouraged. See
AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapter 12, for guidelines on establishing a RMT.
6.7.3.10.3. File Documentation. Establish and maintain files to support documentation requirements nec-
essary to ensure office continuity, show accomplishment of assigned responsibilities, and identify finan-
cial program data, decisions, policies and guidance.
6.7.3.10.4. Financial Management Directives. Maintain and have access within the comptroller activity to
applicable DoD/AF/AMC directives, instructions, and AMC supplements to DoD/AF instructions on
financial management. Establish local directives and supplements, as necessary.
52                                                               AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


15. Resource Management System (RMS) Training. Commanders are responsible for establishing and
enforcing effective internal controls to ensure resources are protected and financial transactions are prop-
erly recorded in the accounting records. Without proper internal controls we cannot obtain clean audit
reports of our financial statements. This can result in losses of assets and payments for goods and services
not properly received.
15.1.4. Unit commanders will ensure that group and squadron RCMs and RAs begin their initial training
within 30 days after appointment and complete it within 90 days after their appointment. The comptroller
will provide a letter (Attachment 6) or certificate
indicating initial RMS training has been received. Additionally, the comptroller will develop a training
plan to ensure all required task proficiency training is completed within one year of appointment.
15.1.5. Follow-On Training. Follow-on training for RCMs, RAs, and other financial management person-
nel may be accomplished through briefings during financial management committee meetings or through
formal follow-on training classes. Wing/center financial analysis personnel are responsible for periodic
staff assistance visits (SAV) to field units. During the SAV, review the Organization Funds Manager’s
(OFM's) performance and provide additional training as required.
16. Support Agreement Management. The base FMA office plays an important role in the management of
support agreements, as they have the responsibility to validate the costs and methodology used to estimate
tenant reimbursable support. The FMA office must ensure all reimbursable costs are captured and
accounted for in each support agreement. While the various unit support agreement monitors should iden-
tify those reimbursable costs associated with their work centers, the FMA office needs to ensure these
individuals possess the required skills to cost out tenant reimbursable support. AFI 25-201, Support
Agreements Procedures, paragraphs 2.6. and 5.4., provides the responsibilities of the FMA office for sup-
port agreements, to include performing an annual budget review and comparing collected reimbursements
to the actual calculations identified in the support agreements. A revised Funding Annex, signed by both
the supplier and receiver (host and tenant) FMs, will be attached to the support agreement. See SAF/FM
memorandum dated 5 January 2004, Subject: Annual Budget Review for Support Agreements, for addi-
tional guidance. You may access a copy of this guidance on the Budget Policy page of the AMC/A8 web
at https://www.amcfm.scott.af.mil/FM_BudgetPolicyNotices.cfm.
                                              Attachment 1
              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFI 10-213, Comptroller Operations Under Emergency Conditions
AFI 25-201, Support Agreement Procedures
AFI 38-301, Productivity Enhancing Capital Investment Programs
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures
AFI 65-601, Volume 2, Budget Management for Operations
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management
AFPD 65-6, Budget
DFAS-DE 7000.1-R, Responsibility Center/Cost Center Codes
AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006                                                              53


DFAS-DE Interin Guidance, Accounting for Obligations
DoDFMR 7000.14, Volume 11B, Reimbursable Operations Policy and Procedures—Defense Working
Capital Fund
DoDI 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support
AMCI 65-602, TWCF Budget Guidance and Procedures
AMCPAM 65-603, Budget Operating Guidance
54                               AMCI65-601_62AW_I 27 JULY 2006


               Attachment 9 (62AW)

     SAMPLE LETTER REPROGRAMMING REQUEST
