BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  AMC INSTRUCTION 32-6001
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                                          2 MAY 1995

                                                                                         Civil Engineering

                                                      BLOCKING AND SECURING MOBILE HOMES




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: A copy of this publication can be found digitally at http: www.safb.af.mil:80/hqamc/pa/pubs/
pubhome2.htm. If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AMC/CESF                                                             Certified by: HQ AMC/CES
       (Mr. Vlahavas)                                                          (Colonel Oleh Skrypczuk)
Supersedes AMCR 90-3, 18 May 1992.                                                                Pages: 2
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 32-60, Housing, to provide minimum standards and guidance for
blocking and securing mobile homes on AMC installations. It applies to all personnel who occupy gov-
ernment or privately-owned mobile homes on AMC bases and is recommended for review by all mobile
home owners. Home owner responsibilities are in AFI 32-6001, Family Housing Management. This
instruction also applies to mobile homes utilized for purposes other than residences, e.g., office and stor-
age areas. This instruction does not apply to Air National Guard and United States Air Force Reserve
units. Copies of this instruction will not be issued to private mobile home owners for permanent reten-
tion.



1. Procedures.
   1.1. Mobile home owners must take the following steps prior to installing a mobile home on AMC
   installations:
       1.1.1. Contact the base housing office and submit an application for a mobile home space. When
       a mobile home space is assigned, the housing office prepares the AF Form 1505, Permit for
       Mobile Home Space, for the owner's and the installation commander's signature. After the AF
       Form 1505 is approved, the owner can move his mobile home into the base mobile home park. At
       the same time the housing office initiates an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request,
       and submits it to base civil engineering (BCE) customer service center for processing.
       1.1.2. After the AF Form 332 is processed and the AF Form 103, Civil Engineering Construc-
       tion Permit, is issued to the mobile home owner, the owner is responsible to install footings,
       anchoring devices, etc., in accordance with her or his owner's field installation manual, which was
       provided to him or her by the mobile home manufacturer at the time of the mobile home purchase.
       1.1.3. Local or state laws may include requirements other than those presented in the owner's
       manual. It is the mobile home owner's responsibility to comply with those requirements. The
2                                                                          AMCI32-6001 2 MAY 1995

       mobile home owner should contact the Division of Environmental Health of the state where the
       corresponding AMC base is located to request information affecting mobile home owner's
       tie-down requirements.
       1.1.4. Notification of blocking and unblocking procedures. Contact base safety officer and BCE
       for assistance and adequacy inspection of blocking and unblocking procedures. Notification must
       be accomplished at least 5 workdays prior to starting blocking or unblocking procedures, and must
       provide the date and time work will begin.
       1.1.5. Do not occupy or allow anyone inside the mobile home until final leveling is completed.

2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. Regardless of date of manufacture, mobile homes in Air Force base mobile home parks must
    meet minimum safety standards of the latest approved edition of American National Standards Insti-
    tute (ANSI) A119.1, owner's field manual, or state requirements, whichever are more stringent.
    Mobile home owners must provide and install blocks, ground anchors, and tie-down straps. Home
    owners will implement the provisions of this instruction on all privately-owned mobile homes on
    AMC installations. Such blocking and securing shall be accomplished only by licensed mobile home
    movers or by a licensed contractor who has had at least 5 years of experience in blocking and securing
    mobile homes.
    2.2. The BCE is responsible for blocking and securing government-owned mobile homes.
    2.3. Competent representatives of the base safety office and the BCE will inspect the blocking and
    unblocking procedures to determine the adequacy of the system installed on privately owned mobile
    homes on AMC bases. The mobile home owner shall comply with the representatives' instructions
    and correct all blocking deficiencies found during the inspection prior to entering and occupying the
    mobile home.
    2.4. The housing management office will advise mobile home owners of this instruction when AF
    Form 1505 is signed.



                                         JACOB D. DUSTIN, Colonel, USAF
                                         Acting Deputy Director, Civil Engineering
