BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR MOBILITY COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                24-101 VOLUME 6

                                                                                   23 JULY 2012

                                                                                  Transportation

                                                    TRANSPORTATION DOCUMENTATION,
                                                         DATA RECORDS, AND REPORTS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AMC/A4TI                                                     Certified by: HQ AMC/A4T
                                                                      (Colonel William Z. Zeck)
Supersedes: AMCI24-101V6, 5 August 2009                                                Pages: 43


This volume prescribes procedures for documenting, maintaining, and reporting transportation
data for all Air Mobility Command (AMC) aerial ports and air terminals. It implements Air
Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 24-1, Personnel Movement and AFPD 24-2, Preparation and
Movement of Air Force Materiel. This volume applies to all active duty, Air National Guard
(ANG), Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units, and all other agencies operating air
terminals on behalf of AMC, or utilizing AMC systems for manifesting and In-transit Visibility
(ITV). This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be
routed to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) of this publication for coordination prior to
certification and approval. This instruction generates the Monthly Station Traffic Handling
Report, Reports Control Number (RCS) AMC A4T (M) 7107. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major
Command publications/forms managers. This document requires collecting and maintaining
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, authorized by 10 USC, 8013, Secretary of the
Air Force: powers and duties; delegation by, and Executive Orders 9397, 9838, 10450, and
11652. System of records notice F024 AF AMC A, Global Air Transportation Execution System
(GATES) (August 3, 1999, 64 FR 42098) applies.
 2                                                                                            AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This volume
implements new guidelines that clarify requirements for passengers requiring special account
handling, corrects timelines for general cargo that has been short shipped, changes source
documents used to account for special category passengers reported on the Monthly Station
Traffic Handling Report, RCS: AMC A4T (M) 7107 (7107 report) and AMC Form 82, Monthly
Station Traffic Handling Report. A section for Transportation Management Office (TMO)
activities is added to the AMC Form 82. The Short-Term Transportation File (STF) and Long-
Term Transportation File (LTF) are converted back to the Consolidated Flight Package (CFP)
and length of time to maintain documents is clarified. The requirement for end of fiscal year
manifest reporting to Headquarters (HQ) AMC is eliminated. In addition, it requires filing of
DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher or NAVCOMPT Form 2277, Voucher for
Disbursement and/or Collection, in Data Records and removes the requirement for Contracted
Air Terminal Ground Handling Services locations in Central and South America and Tel Aviv,
Israel to separate Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF) and Non-TWCF files, reports
and documentation. This revision also rearranges paragraphs and removes certain paragraphs
that are also found in other AMC Instructions (AMCI) to eliminate redundancy and improve
overall readability.

Section A—Policy and Procedures                                                                                                              3
       1.     General. ..................................................................................................................    3
       2.     Documentation of Traffic. .....................................................................................                4
       3.     The AMC Data Processing Center (DPC) HQ AMC/A4TID. ...............................                                             5
       4.     Required Billing Data. ...........................................................................................             6
Table 1.      SAH Codes ............................................................................................................         6
Figure 1.     Example of a Passenger Suspense MFR. ...............................................................                           9
       5.     Manifest Construction/Registers. ...........................................................................                  10
Figure 2.     Manifest Register Construction. ............................................................................                  11
Figure 3.     Manifest Construction. ...........................................................................................            11
Table 2.      Example of a Manifest Register for Non-Automated Sites. ..................................                                    12
       6.     Manifest Reporting. ...............................................................................................           12
Figure 4.     Daily Manifest Letter of Transmittal. ....................................................................                    16
       7.     Security Classification of Documentation. ............................................................                        16
       8.     Postal and Courier Service Documents. .................................................................                       17
       9.     General Filing. .......................................................................................................       17
Figure 5.     Example of a Filing Plan for the CFP ....................................................................                     19

Section B—Reports                                                                                                                           21
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                                                                   3


      10.     General. ..................................................................................................................   21
      11.     Automation in Aerial Ports. ...................................................................................               21
      12.     Database Management and Integrity. ....................................................................                       22
      13.     Over Shipments. .....................................................................................................         22
      14.     Short, Cannot Locate, Lost, Pilfered Shipments, Damaged or Confiscated
              Shipments ...............................................................................................................     23
      15.     AMC Form 82, Monthly Station Traffic Handling Report, RCS: .........................                                          27
      16.     AMC Form 56, Rehandled Workload. ...................................................................                          33
      17.     AMC Form 65, Aircraft Reserviced Workload. ....................................................                               33
      18.     AMC Form 85, Aircraft Handled by Type. ...........................................................                            33
      19.     AMC Form 108, Passenger Rehandled Workload. ................................................                                  33
      20.     Station On-Hand Channel Report, RCS: ...............................................................                          34
Table 3.      Station On-Hand Channel Report RCS: AMC (AR) 7115 ....................................                                        35
      21.     AMC Key Asset, Materials Handling Equipment (MHE) and Associated Aerial
              Port Equipment On-Hand Report, RCS: ................................................................                          36
      22.     Nuclear Shoring Kit Inventory, RCS: ....................................................................                      37

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              38


Section A—Policy and Procedures

1. General.
   1.1. Data Records and Reports is one of the most important sections in the aerial port/air
   terminal. Data Records personnel are the final quality control (QC) for all transportation
   documentation.       They ensure transportation documentation is forwarded to HQ
   AMC/FMFAB, enabling the proper accounting of millions of dollars annually for the TWCF.
   Data Records personnel do this by collecting all mission documentation, checking
   documentation for accuracy, updating the information in GATES, and ensuring the correct
   information is transmitted to the appropriate system and physical documentation products are
   sent to the correct office.
   1.2. Data Records personnel also QC and compile reports from the various work centers, e.g.
   AMC Form 56, Rehandled Workload, AMC Form 85, Aircraft Handled by Type, etc., into
   the RCS: AMC A4T (M) 7107.
   1.3. This AMCI contains directions for maintenance of transportation documents created
   within the AMC system. It also covers transportation documents created outside the AMC
   system pertaining to AMC transportation operations, revenue traffic forms, and documents
   created for traffic moved by other than AMC TWCF aircraft. As many of these documents
   contain Personally Identifiable Information (PII), such as social security account numbers
   (SSAN), it is very important that port personnel protect these documents while in storage or
 4                                                               AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


     when e-mailed or otherwise transmitted in accordance with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-
     332, Privacy Act Program.
     1.4. Transportation documents and forms are used in transportation operations to record the
     receipt, storage, movement, delivery, and other processing of passengers, baggage, cargo,
     and mail. These documents consist of Department of Defense (DOD), Air Force (AF), and
     AMC forms as well as any other documents or correspondence used to substantiate
     transportation activities.
     1.5. All directives in this instruction consider GATES locations synonymous with Remote
     GATES (RGATES) and Deployable GATES (DGATES) locations. Unless otherwise
     specified, these locations are held responsible for compliance with all directives in this
     instruction. Guidance for using GATES is in the GATES User's Manuals (GUMs). A link to
     the GUMs can be found on the HQ AMC/A4TI web pages at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
     af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/gates/hello.html. Situations may arise when
     GATES users need to submit trouble tickets for problem resolution. Trouble tickets may be
     submitted either by phone, Defense Switched Network (DSN) 576-4949 Option
     1/Commercial 618-256-4949 Option 1, or by e-mail to the AMC Command and Control (C2)
     Call Center at AMCTRANSHELPDESK@US.AF.MIL.
     1.6. This instruction applies to all aspects of aerial port/air terminal functions and is not
     intended to be specific to Data Records sections only.
2. Documentation of Traffic.
     2.1. Traffic is defined as cargo, mail, passengers, or baggage transported on DOD-owned or
     controlled, or non-DOD aircraft. Document movement as described in the following
     paragraphs.
     2.2. TWCF or Opportune Aircraft. Document traffic moved on such aircraft per applicable
     procedures contained in this instruction; DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation
     (DTR ); AMCI 24-101, Volume 9; AMCI 24-101 Volume 11, Cargo and Mail Policy; and
     AMCI 24-101 Volume 14, Military Airlift Passenger Service.
     2.3. Patient Travel. Patients with a valid travel order may process through the AMC
     Passenger Terminal. Document their travel in accordance with AMCI 24-101, Volume 14;
     DOD 4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility; and DOD Directive 5154.06, Armed
     Services Medical Regulating.
     2.4. Special Airlift Mission (SAM) Aircraft. Document traffic moved on SAM aircraft
     operated by the 89th Air Wing (AW) in accordance with the DTR; this instruction; AMCI
     24-101, Volume 9; AMCI 24-101 Volume 11; and AMCI 24-101 Volume 14. Passenger
     manifests for aircraft providing airlift in support of the President of the United States, the
     Vice President, and other Presidential or White House directed airlift missions are exempt
     from the disposition instructions in this instruction, and if provided to the 89th AW, will be
     destroyed immediately after the active mission leg. The White House Military Office
     maintains the "Master" passenger manifests for White House directed airlift missions in
     accordance with the Presidential Records Act, 44 U.S.C. 2201-07 (2000).
     2.5. Other than AMC TWCF Aircraft. Manifest cargo, mail, and passengers placed on board
     such aircraft in accordance with this instruction and AMCI 24-101, Volume 9; AMCI 24-
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                      5


  101, Volume 11; and AMCI 24-101 Volume 14. When an AMC mission identifier and
  mission itinerary in GATES is not assigned, the Air Terminal Operations Center (ATOC)
  will construct an appropriate AMC mission identifier to manifest and report traffic
  movement.        The HQ AMC/A4TI web page at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
  af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/datarecords/hello.html contains a link
  explaining how to create a mission identifier via encode and decode procedures.
  2.6. A space available passenger signing up for travel and processed by a terminal in
  accordance with AMCI 24-101 Volume 14 is reported as a TWCF passenger on a TWCF
  manifest regardless of mission or type of aircraft providing the travel.
  2.7. If a Patriot Express carrier provides a replacement aircraft the manifest header
  information will be the same no matter what carrier operates the mission.
  2.8. When the government replaces any aircraft with a military aircraft or another
  commercial carrier, header information reflects the substitute carrier’s mission number,
  name, etc., as if the substitute carrier is the original carrier.
3. The AMC Data Processing Center (DPC) HQ AMC/A4TID.
  3.1. The DPC is manned 24/7, 365 days a year to provide assistance and on-the-job training.
  All sites can request assistance from the DPC for general aerial port guidance. AMC/A4TI
  will schedule a Data Records site visit to each AMC owned or controlled site every two years
  to assist, train, and ensure all matters of data records type functions are being performed. If
  necessary, a Data Records visit can be requested any time by contacting HQ AMC/A4TI at
  DSN 312-779-8174/Commercial 618-229-8174 or e-mail org.amca4-69@us.af.mil. This
  includes site visits when requested by a unit or deemed necessary by HQ AMC. To assist
  data records personnel, a self inspection checklist has been developed and is available at
  https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/datarecords/
  hello.html. For assistance with manifesting, contact HQ AMC/A4TI using the above contact
  information. The DPC will obtain approval from HQ AMC/A4TI prior to manifesting any
  cargo or passengers. Links to the A4TI Data Records Frequently Asked Questions and the
  Data Records Community of Practice (CoP) site can be found at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
  af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/datarecords/
  hello.html. The DPC can be contacted at DSN 312-779-0045/Commercial 618-229-0045;
  Fax at DSN 312-779-7936/Commercial 618-229-7936; e-mail org.amca4-70@us.af.mil.
  3.2. Automated GATES locations are responsible for transmitting data and maintaining all
  records and reports required. The DPC’s main task with these stations is to manage the
  manifest registers and provide spot training, as needed. Down-line stations are responsible
  for correcting their discrepancies, maintaining all documentation and manifest registers, and
  ensure a clear audit trail is accomplished.
  3.3. At locations without GATES (non-automated), the DPC collects, edits, and transmits
  movement data to provide reimbursement of airlift funds to TWCF. They are responsible for
  manifest control, reporting, record storage, and oversight of its assigned down-line stations.
  They also ensure down-line stations submit cargo and passenger manifests and perform
  TWCF updates in a timely manner. While they provide this valuable oversight, it does not
  relieve the down-line stations of their responsibility to enter data, maintain records in
  accordance with AF records disposition schedules in AFRIMS, or performance of other Data
 6                                                                 AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


     Records duties. These duties include, but are not limited to, performing all functions
     associated with over and short shipment processing, inbound and outbound truck functions,
     and cargo inventories.
     3.4. Deployed ITV, contingency/mobility operating locations (OL) are child sites of the
     DPC. The DPC will provide spot training to assist with problem areas, troubleshooting, and
     general oversight of database management. This in no way relieves the deployed site of their
     responsibility to provide manifest data and a clear audit trail for all transportation movement,
     as well as perform other Data Records functions. These duties include, but are not limited to,
     performing all functions associated with over and short shipment processing, inbound and
     outbound truck functions, and cargo inventories.
4. Required Billing Data.
     4.1. Passenger Customer Identification Code (CIC). CICs are essential for properly billing
     passenger travel and identifying the service responsible for payment. Travel authorizations
     for reimbursable space required passenger transportation must cite the chargeable
     appropriation and CIC approved by the funds certifying official. If the aforementioned
     information is not available, then a full billing address with point of contact and phone/fax
     numbers must be on the authorization to allow reimbursement on a Special Account
     Handling (SAH) basis. Follow paragraph 4.2 for SAH procedures. Otherwise, provide
     payment by indicating cash collection, utilizing the appropriate SAH for the correct tariff rate
     based on the passenger’s associated organization. Refer to AMCI 24-101, Volume 14 for
     cash handling procedures.
        4.1.1. CIC General Guidance. The aerial port/air terminal is not responsible for
        construction of the CIC. Instead, aerial port/air terminal personnel should follow SAH
        procedures as outlined below if a usable CIC is not provided. For questions regarding
        CICs, contact HQ AMC/FMFAB at DSN 779-2668/Commercial (618) 229-2668 or email
        them at amc.fmfa.twcf@us.af.mil.
     4.2. Special Account Handling (SAH) Procedures. SAH codes entered in GATES directly
     affect passenger billing, and if improperly entered, could result in double billing or billing at
     the wrong tariff rate. When a passengers’ travel documentation does not contain a clearly
     identifiable CIC or the passenger pays with cash, credit card or check, use one of the SAH
     codes from Table 1 in the second position (i.e. spacebar then code) of the account code block
     in GATES. This action places the traveler on the Suspense List and identifies to HQ
     AMC/FMFAB that additional documentation will be sent to HQ AMC/FMFAB and /or the
     Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS). This additional documentation will be in
     the form of Travel Orders, Letters of Authorization (LOA), DD Form 1131/NAVCOMPT
     Form 2277 or credit card reports as appropriate.
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                        7


Table 1. SAH Codes
 SAH Code                           Tariff rate                          Method of Payment
    A            DOD (Type 1)                                      Credit basis/billing
    K            Non-DOD/Federal Government (Type II)              Credit basis/billing
    G            Non-Federal Government/Contractor (Type III)      Credit basis/billing
    C            DOD (Type I)                                      Cash, credit card or check
     L           Non-DOD/Federal Government (Type II)              Cash, credit card or check
     J           Non-Federal Government/Contractor (Type III)      Cash, credit card or check

         4.2.1. When the above SAH codes are entered into GATES, Passenger Service Center
         (PSC) personnel will collect one complete set of travel documents (all pages, front and
         back) from each traveler. The PSC will annotate the copy of orders with the origin Aerial
         Port Code (APC), destination APC, manifest number, and mission number. The PSC will
         create and deliver a complete flight package to Data Records within three days of aircraft
         departure for further processing and record keeping. The package will include all
         required travel documentation and/or a Memorandum for Record (MFR) stating which
         documents are missing and what the PSC is doing to secure a copy of the missing
         documentation.
         4.2.2. Documents in the flight package will be scanned and saved in Portable Document
         File (PDF) format by mission number and manifest number. Data Records personnel will
         then email the scanned documents to SAH.suspense@us.af.mil within seven days of lift.
         If scanning capability doesn’t exist, units may attach the travel documents to a copy of
         the originating manifest and the account handling printout and forward within seven days
         of lift to AMC/FMFAB, 402 Scott Drive, Unit 1K1, Scott AFB, IL 62225; however, e-
         mail is the preferred method for sending required travel documents to HQ AMC.
         4.2.3. For non-automated locations, scan all SAH documentation and save in PDF format
         by mission number and manifest number. E-mail the scanned documents to the DPC at
         org.amca4-70@us.af.mil or fax to DSN 779-7936/Commercial (618) 229-7936 within
         three days of aircraft departure. Include an explanation of the circumstances surrounding
         any missing documentation and what steps have been taken to obtain the documentation.
         If scan or fax capability does not exist, the documentation may be mailed to HQ
         AMC/A4TID, 402 Scott Drive, Unit 2A2, Scott AFB IL 62225-5308.
         4.2.4. If orders were not collected from a passenger, follow SAH procedures identified in
         paragraph 4.2. Provide a brief of the Passenger Suspense Listing to the Officer in Charge
         (OIC) or Superintendent of Passenger Service. Passenger Service has seven days after
         aircraft departure to contact the user for collection of missing orders. Once the travel
         order for each SAH passenger is received, go into the suspense listing in GATES, select
         the passenger(s) and generate the TWCF manifest. GATES will automatically assign a
         new manifest and a new Account Handling Control Register for those passengers who
         fall under the SAH category.
8                                                         AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


    4.2.4.1. If after ten days from aircraft departure a passenger’s orders are still missing,
    the Passenger Service OIC or Superintendent will provide a signed MFR via e-mail to
    HQ AMC/A4TID, (org.amca4-70@us.af.mil), requesting the DPC assist in tracking
    down the missing orders. Figure 1 is an example of a passenger suspense MFR. Data
    Records must also receive a copy of the MFR for filing in the CFP. This MFR must
    contain the traveler’s full name, rank, SSAN, mission number, mission routing, tariff
    rate, and explanation of steps taken to recover the missing orders. Attach all
    documentation to the MFR (e. g. e-mail traffic faxes, etc.). Also include total number
    of missing orders, total potential loss of TWCF revenue, and a point of contact.
    TWCF revenue loss can be determined by following the TWCF rate links at
    https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4ti/
    datarecords/hello.html. All items can be scanned and e-mailed. The e-mail must be
    digitally encrypted and marked in accordance with AFI 33-332 to protect Privacy Act
    information.
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                               9


Figure 1. Example of a Passenger Suspense MFR.




         4.2.4.2. The DPC will keep track of all requests and provide all actions taken to
         recover potential loss of TWCF billing to HQ AMC/A4TI. If orders are recovered,
         the DPC will input the correct CIC or SAH code, and submit a TWCF manifest to the
         Defense Enterprise Accounting and Management System Component Billing System
 10                                                            AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


          (DCBS) for billing. If after thirty days all efforts are exhausted to recover missing
          orders, the DPC will enter an “A” in the second position of the account code field and
          submit a TWCF manifest to DCBS. The DPC will forward a copy of all supporting
          documentation to HQ AMC/FMFAB so they can pursue potential billing through
          other avenues.
          4.2.4.3. In the event a passenger arrives at the Passenger Terminal with a LOA for
          travel, the LOA must be included in the manifest package received from the PSC.
          Data Records will forward one legible copy in accordance with paragraph 4.2.2
          above. The letter must be signed by the passenger’s commanding officer for military
          members or the contracting officer for contract employees, citing the authority for
          travel, fund cite/CIC or billing address, and unit point of contact. For military
          members, this type of movement, vice published orders, is used due to the urgent
          nature of the travel and is only authorized for emergency situations and is not
          authorized or intended to replace valid orders. Data Records will create metrics and
          perform trend analysis, reporting suspected abuse by orders issuing agencies to HQ
          AMC/A4TI. An LOA is the only authorized form of travel authorization for
          contractor employees.
   4.3. On occasion, customers of AMC lift will dispute passenger movement charges. When
   dispute actions occur, AMC/FMFAB staff must obtain the source documentation pertaining
   to the movement. Source documentation is used to derive a billable line of accounting or to
   locate a commercial/corporate customer. All source documentation at the port is to be kept
   in the CFP in accordance with AFRIMS. AMC/FMFAB staff will submit requests for source
   documentation directly to the port. Port personnel will make every effort to assist
   AMC/FMFAB by forwarding source documentation within seven business days of the
   request. The preferred method of responding to requests for source documentation is to scan
   the document(s) and e-mail the file to the requesting party. In lieu of scan/e-mail, documents
   may be mailed or faxed to the requesting party. Port personnel must advise the requesting
   party of the method of delivery should scan/e-mail not be available. All requests for source
   documentation from the DFAS should be referred to HQ AMC/FMFAB.
5. Manifest Construction/Registers.
   5.1. Manifest Registers. Manifest registers are used to track manifests sent to DCBS and
   show when they are approved (Figure 2). They are also used to cross-reference any changes
   made to manifests if numbers changed due to resubmission.
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                     11


Figure 2. Manifest Register Construction.




   5.2. Use the following system to ensure standardization of manifest numbering by all
   stations documenting traffic. Each manifest is identified by the APC of the preparing station,
   last digit of the fiscal year, type manifest, and manifest serial number. Number manifests
   consecutively within each register starting with the number 00001 at the start of the fiscal
   year. Stations maintain separate logs or registers for surface and air manifests (Figure 3).
   There are three types of manifest registers: passenger, cargo/mail, and truck/surface. Use the
   following codes to identify the type of manifest: P-passenger; C-cargo; M-mail. There is no
   code for truck/surface manifests as they are all numeric.

Figure 3. Manifest Construction.
 12                                                            AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


      5.2.1. GATES automatically creates a manifest register for the user. The Data Records
      section must review this register daily and identify any inconsistencies. Research any
      manifest that has a status other than “APPVD”, or “CANCELLED” for longer than seven
      calendar days. If not resolved after ten calendar days, call the DPC to ensure no errors
      exist and then open a trouble ticket through the C2 Call Center GATES Help Desk at
      DSN 576-4949, option 1/Commercial 618-256-4949, option 1 or e-mail
      amctranshelpdesk@us.af.mil for resolution.
      5.2.2. Stations not equipped with GATES are required to prepare manifest numbers and
      registers for cargo, mail, and passenger movement. These sites must be prepared to
      present manifest control registers when requested by HQ AMC/FMFN or the DPC. Non-
      automated sites will use and maintain the sequentially numbered Aerial Port Manifest
      Register provided by the DPC to keep track of manifest numbers. The DPC will print
      blank registers for all non-automated stations not having any means of producing one and
      will send registers no later than 1 September for the next fiscal year. Constant
      communication between non-automated sites and the DPC is crucial to maintain Aerial
      Port Manifest Register accuracy. If manifests are created out of sequence, the DPC will
      contact the site for an explanation. The DPC will cancel skipped manifests and append
      the DPC Manifest Register to match the site if necessary.
      5.2.3. The manifest register is essential in researching cargo and passenger manifests
      once they are lifted from the local database. Create a manifest register with the following
      headings as a minimum: Manifest Number (full), Manifest Reference, Mission Number,
      Destination, and Date Sent to DPC (the transmittal letter) (Table 2). The DPC sends back
      an acknowledgement of receipt.

Table 2. Example of a Manifest Register for Non-Automated Sites.
Manifest Number    Manifest Reference      Mission Number      Destination    Date sent to DPC
BOG6C00001         AA                      ABA053500001        CHS            05 JAN 06

      5.2.4. During manual manifesting procedures at GATES locations, it is important that
      the Data Records section, in conjunction with ATOC, Load Planning, and the Passenger
      Terminal, determine what sequential number is next. Under normal operating
      procedures, each Data Records section will maintain and update full passenger and cargo
      manifest registers daily. However, while under manual procedures, the Load Planning
      element and the Passenger Terminal will maintain their individual registers. Use the last
      printed automated register, in conjunction with the AMC Form 77, Aircraft Ground
      Handling Record (on hand in ATOC) and manifests not forwarded from Load Planning
      and Passenger Service, to determine the last manifest used. If the next manifest number
      cannot be easily determined, contact the C2 Call Center GATES Help Desk at DSN 576-
      4949,      option     1/Commercial       618-256-4949,      option    1     or    e-mail
      amctranshelpdesk@us.af.mil for assistance. Manual manifests and registers for cargo
      and passenger manifests will maintain the same sequential numbering and references in
      line with the last manifest generated from the automated system.
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                       13


6. Manifest Reporting.
   6.1. All valid manifest data entered into GATES documenting the air movement of cargo,
   mail, and passengers shall be sent to DCBS as a TWCF manifest for processing by HQ
   AMC/FMFN. It is the terminal’s (GATES sites) or the DPC’s (DPC supported sites)
   responsibility to ensure DCBS processes the manifests. This is accomplished by using the
   Aerial Port Manifest Register. If manifest reference numbers are created out of sequence
   causing a gap of unused reference numbers, notify the DPC immediately.
   6.2. Definitions of Manifest Register Status. These codes indicate the status of the manifests
   listed on the register as identified by DCBS:
      6.2.1. SENT- the manifest was sent by GATES to DCBS. If the manifest remains in this
      status for more than seven days, contact the C2 Call Center GATES Help Desk at DSN
      576-4949,     option    1/Commercial      618-256-4949,     option 1    or   e-mail
      amctranshelpdesk@us.af.mil.
      6.2.2. APPVD- the manifest was accepted and processed by DCBS. Manifests approved
      by DCBS cannot be subsequently cancelled by the GATES user. If there is a problem
      with the approved manifest then a trouble ticket is required and the DPC should be
      notified to ensure coordination between GATES and DCBS.
      6.2.3. ERROR- an error has been identified. A retransmission is not necessary. If still in
      error status after fifteen calendar days, open a trouble ticket through the C2 Call Center
      GATES Help Desk at DSN 576-4949, option 1/Commercial 618-256-4949, option 1 or e-
      mail amctranshelpdesk@us.af.mil.
      6.2.4. CANCELLED-manifest was not used due to adverse mission or aircraft status that
      caused the transfer or rotation of all cargo, mail, and/or passengers to another manifest or
      in a temporary hold status.
   6.3. Missing Manifest Report and Un-reconciled Manifest Report. The Missing Manifest
   Report displays all of the manifest reference numbers for a particular aerial port received by
   DCBS. This report can be viewed in GATES for both cargo and passenger manifests. The
   Un-reconciled Manifest Report is sent directly to the DPC and displays all manifests
   worldwide that have been missing for longer than seven calendar days. The data for both
   reports is developed by DCBS and sent to GATES and the DPC for review and is used as a
   tool to assist in reconciling these manifests. The DPC reviews both of these reports daily and
   compares the data to the specific aerial port manifest register to ascertain the current status
   for each identified manifest reference number. If after forty-eight hours there is no change in
   the manifest status, the DPC shall start investigating the cause and coordinate their activities
   with the responsible aerial port to rectify the discrepancy. After determining the best course
   of action, the DPC will work with the aerial port to accomplish the corrective action. The
   DPC may take unilateral action to remedy the problem when it is appropriate, warranted, or
   requested in order to expeditiously process the affected manifests through DCBS for billing
   and accountability. The DPC will also advise aerial port personnel about those manifests
   which appear on the Un-reconciled Manifest Report in order to focus their attention on
   closing these manifests as soon as possible.
   6.4. All manifest numbers are listed in numerical sequence, by type. Use the following
   exception codes to explain non-submission of issued manifests: CX-manifest cancelled; HD-
 14                                                            AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


   manifest held for supporting documentation; HZ-manifest held due to departure after 2400
   Greenwich Mean Time. Manifest numbers coded HD or HZ are listed on subsequent
   transmittal letters until submitted or cancelled.
   6.5. TWCF Passenger Manifesting. GATES users must submit TWCF movement data
   directly to AMC following the procedures below and as listed in the GUMs. All Non-
   automated stations must submit TWCF movement data to the DPC for entry into GATES.
       6.5.1. Data Records receives a flight package from Passenger Service for all missions
       with onload passengers. The package will contain documentation, as applicable, for each
       passenger on the boarding manifest. If documents are incomplete or missing, return the
       flight package to the Passenger Service section for corrections.
       6.5.2. All passengers manifested will be marked as TWCF and sent to DCBS.
       6.5.3. Compare documents, manifests, and passenger records for accuracy. Ensure line
       number, name, rank, travel priority and type, SSAN, CIC, and Unique Control Number
       are correct and consistent throughout each line item. For example, do not permit a SAH
       code of “A” in the second position of the CIC field when the travel type code is “OL”.
6.5.4. Perform flight imbalance verification, if needed. Adjust Allowable Cabin Load and
perform passenger seat increases or decreases as required
       6.5.5. TWCF manifests are automatically sent to DCBS one hour after aircraft departure.
       Changes to the original manifest, prior to it being APPROVED by DCBS, may require
       the user to cancel the manifest and generate a new TWCF passenger manifest.
       Passengers must be rotated off the original manifest before the manifest can be cancelled.
       6.5.6. Place flight package in a suspense file until control register shows receipt by
       DCBS.
       6.5.7. Confirm the manifest number is approved or has an acceptable status from DCBS
       by reviewing the passenger manifest register daily. If the manifest is not approved or in
       an acceptable status within seven calendar days, call the DPC to ensure no errors exist
       and then open a trouble ticket with the C2 Call Center GATES Help Desk at DSN 576-
       4949,      option     1/Commercial      618-256-4949,       option     1    or    e-mail
       amctranshelpdesk@us.af.mil. If errors exist on requested TWCF manifests, correct the
       error and follow the above procedures to submit the data to HQ AMC/FMFN.
   6.6. Cargo and mail manifests are automatically sent to DCBS upon lift event within
   GATES. Data Records personnel must go back to the manifest register to ensure the
   manifest is in an approved status from DCBS. If the manifest is not approved within seven
   calendar days, call the DPC to ensure no errors exist and then open a trouble ticket with the
   C2 Call Center GATES Help Desk at DSN 576-4949, option 1/Commercial 618-256-4949,
   option 1 or e-mail amctranshelpdesk@us.af.mil.
   6.7. Non-automated sites will record manifests used on a transmittal letter (Figure 4), attach
   manifests, and send to the DPC via fax or e-mail as soon as possible after aircraft departure.
   All locations must use the fastest means available to submit data for billing purposes to the
   DPC. If fax or e-mail is not available, the documents may be mailed. Contact the DPC to
   advise them if this means is to be used. DPC personnel will input the data into GATES as
   soon as possible. The DPC acknowledges receipt of the manifest to sender by returning a
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                     15


  copy of the GATES created manifest or, if there are discrepancies, sending a copy of the sent
  manifest and/or transmittal letter explaining any details. Number all transmittal letters
  sequentially starting at the beginning of each fiscal year. If acknowledgment of receipt is not
  received after submission, the station of origin initiates follow-up action. If the DPC is
  utilized for manifesting, send a copy of all documentation (complete sets of passenger orders,
  Transportation Control and Movement Document (TCMD), and any other applicable
  documentation) directly to the DPC. Ensure all documentation sent to the DPC is annotated
  with the mission number and manifest number.
 16                                                       AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


Figure 4. Daily Manifest Letter of Transmittal.




   6.8. DPC supported locations are responsible for forwarding all traffic documentation
   annotated on AMC Form 85 to the DPC.
7. Security Classification of Documentation. Generally, transportation documents are not
classified except when required by a competent authority or classified mission directive.
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                      17


Classified documents and forms related to air movement of security traffic remain classified until
destroyed, downgraded, or reclassified per AFI 31-401, Information Security Program
Management, prior to cutoff of documents for retirement or centralization. Classified
transportation documents are filed separately as they are created. When classified documents are
sent for centralization, storage, or other purposes, provisions of AFI 31-401 relative to
transmittal and security of classified files apply.
   7.1. Personally Identifiable Information (PII). Some transportation documents, e.g.
   passenger manifests, contain PII and as such are considered For Official Use Only and must
   be protected while in storage and when e-mailed or otherwise transmitted in accordance with
   AFI 33-332.
8. Postal and Courier Service Documents. Copies of Postal Service documents received in
connection with transportation documents are filed with the series of transportation documents to
which they pertain and disposed of per AFI 33-364, Records Disposition-Procedures and
Responsibilities, and AFRIMS. Defense Courier Service is responsible for their documents in
connection with movement within GATES.
9. General Filing. File and maintain transportation documents as prescribed in this volume and
dispose of per AFRIMS, Table 24-02. Most documents will be maintained in an active file
consisting of documents from the current month and an inactive file consisting of documents
from the previous thirty-six months, thus providing continuous access to thirty-six months of
data at any one time. For example, at the start of August 2010, the active file will contain
documents from the month of August 2010. The inactive file would contain documents from
August 2007 through July 2010. At the start of each new month, the oldest month’s worth of
documents may be destroyed, so on 1 September 2010, the August 2007 documents may be
destroyed, thus maintaining thirty-six months of data.
   9.1. Consolidated Flight Package (CFP). To facilitate researching past flight information,
   Data Records will create a CFP containing all applicable documentation for each mission.
   Consolidate all documentation for a single mission into one folder or envelope marked with
   the mission number. Each section is required to deliver mission documentation to Data
   Records, which will QC all submitted documents, prior to inclusion in the CFP. Non-
   GATES stations are also required to maintain CFPs.
       9.1.1. The CFP will consist of one copy of the originating, terminating and thru-load
       cargo and mail manifests, thru-load manifests of bumped cargo, over/short shipment
       amendment sheets, as well as originating, thru-load, and terminating passenger manifests.
       Include one signed original Hazardous Shippers Declaration of Dangerous Goods and
       hazardous cargo manifests, over/short shipment reports, signature service manifests and
       all documentation on deleted cargo. For passengers, you must keep one copy of
       temporary duty orders, SAH orders, pre/port booked passenger orders and any other
       passenger travel authorization documents to include contractor LOAs. In addition, the
       CFP will consist of load plans from Automated Air Load Planning System or Integrated
       Computerized Deployment System and any load plans completed on AF Form 4080,
       Load/Sequence Breakdown Worksheet and also DD Form 2130 series load plans. In
       addition, AMC Form 1015, Hazmat Inspection and Acceptance Checklist, bumped cargo
       sheets, DD Form 2133, Joint Airlift Inspection Record, anti-hijacking statement, rushed
       baggage manifest, AMC Form 101, Green Sheet Request, DD Form 1384, Transportation
18                                                            AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


     Control and Movement Document and DD Form 1387-2, Special Handling
     Data/Certification will also be included in the CFP. Lastly include any AMC Form 68,
     Aerial Port Movement Log and the AMC Form 77 and include all checkmark items listed
     in block 26 of the AMC Form 77, including hand written items. The CFP can also
     include any transportation documentation that the port wishes to file in the CFP.
     9.1.2. File each CFP by month- year, Julian day, and then by mission number. For those
     forms or documents that contain more than one mission, such as the AMC Form 68,
     simply file those under the Julian day. More than one folder per Julian day is acceptable
     if folder size becomes unmanageable. Figure 5 depicts a visual representation of this
     filing scheme. Make every effort not to duplicate records. With the exception of Navy
     operated terminals, do not separate TWCF and non-TWCF. Each port must maintain
     access to the CFP for the required period. Maintain the CFP for the current month as the
     active file with an additional thirty-six months as inactive files as described in paragraph
     9. Local trainers and stateside missions may be deleted after ninety days. Ports may box
     the inactive files using approved containers listed in AFI 33-364. Port commanders must
     ensure adequate security and provide protection from the elements for these records at all
     times. AMC/FMFAB will contact Aerial Port Data Records and the DPC for source
     documents within the retention period. AMC Aerial Ports or the DPC will respond to
     AMC/FMFAB requests for source orders within seven business days when mission
     allows.
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                      19


Figure 5. Example of a Filing Plan for the CFP




      9.1.3. Deployed ITV/Contingency/Mobility Reporting.               Many contingency type
      operations require ITV for a site not previously set up as an operating airfield. While
      these airfields currently may not produce billable manifests, they may inadvertently get
      sent to DCBS even if the deployed/contingency site never transmitted them. This creates
      un-reconciled manifests requiring reference documentation in order to provide resolution
      and a clear audit trail. All CFPs must be maintained appropriately. Once operations are
      completed, any files that haven’t met the timeline for destruction will be returned to the
      deployed team’s unit for proper disposition in accordance with AFRIMS and AFI 33-364.
      When operations overlap between deploying units, store all records locally until
      operations are completed or timeline for destruction has been met. The unit closing the
      operation will be responsible to return all records for proper disposition.
      9.1.4. Deviations from filing procedures. Deviations to these filing instructions must be
      approved by HQ AMC/A4TI. Limitations to manning or storage facilities may prohibit
      each port from following the above guidelines. The following represents options that
      each port may use in lieu of filing procedures above. All ports are authorized to use the
      option that best meets their needs as long as the records are retrievable when requested.
          9.1.4.1. Filing by Small Units. Small units that create less than two linear feet of
          documents during a six-month period may deviate from the standard methods of
          filing in order to reduce the number of folders and dividers. In those cases, label file
20                                                            AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


         drawers to indicate the time periods covered. Also, label individual folders to
         indicate the time periods covered. For example: "Oct 09-Mar 10," filed by date.
         However, all units are to observe the timeframes for maintaining CFPs as prescribed
         above.
         9.1.4.2. All units are permitted and encouraged to use the option of an electronic
         CFP. Electronic filing will mirror hard copy filing as above. The Data Records
         section will need to create the required folders in Windows and then save all files
         associated with a mission in those folders. Refer to Figure 5 as an example of
         electronically filed CFPs. The electronic CFP must be saved onto a shared server to
         allow access to all required personnel. As the CFP contains Privacy Act information,
         the electronic CFP must be adequately protected to limit access to those who require
         access in the performance of their duties. If electronic versions of the documents are
         not available, scan them and then save in the appropriate folder. When electronically
         filing, only scan thru-load and terminating manifests when all changes are completed
         to identify bumped, over-shipped, and short-shipped cargo. Scan other acquired
         source documents, TCMDs, traffic transfer receipts, etc., and save under the
         appropriate folder.
     9.1.5. File Naming Conventions. File names for scanned documents should reflect the
     contents of the documents and serve to make retrieval of the information in the document
     easy. For example, travel orders could be saved with the traveler’s name as the file
     name, manifests can be saved using the manifest number as the file name, etc. If the
     documents are scanned into one continuous file, use the mission number as the file name.
     9.1.6. File backup requirements. The reason for saving the CFP as inactive files is so
     source documentation is available if needed. As such, a regular backup of the electronic
     CFP is required. The system administrators of a share drive server usually perform
     regular backups of the data on the server. Verify this is accomplished on the server used
     for the CFP and that the data is available for retrieval for the required period of time. If
     system administrators do not perform system backups, implement another form of
     backup, such as using an external hard drive, compact disk/digital versatile disc, etc.
  9.2. Air Manifest Registers. For GATES locations, maintain one working copy, printed or
  saved electronically, of each register, passenger and cargo, in Data Records. Update daily by
  printing or electronically saving the last page or pages with the current registers. Port
  management will determine the best time to print or electronically save based on workload,
  but it must be consistent. Use this working copy to determine the last manifest reference
  used during computer downtimes. For the end of the fiscal year processing, ensure that all
  manifests are in approved or cancelled status in DCBS prior to closing out the manifest
  register. Close out the manifest register and print the final copy not later than 1 January.
  9.3. Truck Manifests and Registers. Maintain all truck manifests (inbound, outbound, and
  land bridge) for the current month as the active file with an additional thirty-six months as
  inactive files as described in paragraph 9. File manifests sequentially by manifest number
  and departure date for originating manifests and by arrival date for terminating manifests.
  For GATES locations, print or save any updated pages to the register daily. Port
  management will determine the best time to print or save based on workload, but must be
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                         21


   consistent. DPC supported sites will update the register manually as manifests are created.
   At the end of the fiscal year, ensure the final register has all changes documented.
   9.4. Transportation       Discrepancy       Reports     (TDR)       on    Short     and      Lost
   Shipments. Maintain TDRs and all supporting documentation, to include message traffic,
   for the current month as the active file with an additional thirty-six months as inactive files as
   described in paragraph 9.
   9.5. Cash Collection Vouchers and Supporting Documentation. In accordance with
   AMCI 24-101, Volume 14, Section F, Funds Accounting/ Meals/ Refunds, when the PSC
   collects cash for meals and/or travel tariffs they are required to produce either DD Form 1131
   or NAVCOMPT Form 2277 as appropriate, to account for all monies collected and turned
   over to the proper financial accounting agency. Per AFRIMS (Table and Rule) T24-02 R
   05.00, Military Air Cash Collection Vouchers, these forms and all supporting documentation
   shall be maintained for the current month as the active file with an additional thirty-six
   months as inactive files as described in paragraph 9. Therefore, all signed and completed
   cash collection vouchers and the supporting documentation shall be forwarded to the Data
   Records Section for retention. These records will be filed in a similar manner as the CFP, in
   that Data Records will consolidate all source documentation for each mission into a single
   file per mission and keep them separate from the CFP records. There could be as many as
   three individual cash collection vouchers, along with the supporting documentation, for a
   single mission based on whether the funds collected were for meals or travel tariffs and
   method of payment, separating cash and credit card transactions. Data Records personnel
   will ensure that there is a GATES generated Flight Financial Report accompanying the
   submitted cash collection vouchers and verify that the totals on the vouchers match the
   GATES Flight Financial Report for the specific mission. Report any discrepancies to port
   leadership or C2 Call Center GATES Help Desk at DSN 576-4949, option 1/Commercial
   618-256-4949, option 1 or e-mail amctranshelpdesk@us.af.mil as appropriate.
   9.6. Deleted Cargo Reports: Maintain Deleted Cargo Reports for the current month as the
   active file with an additional thirty-six months as inactive files as described in paragraph 9.
   9.7. Disposition of Local Reports: Maintain local reports for ninety days unless a longer
   retention period is specifically called for elsewhere in this instruction.

Section B—Reports

10. General. This section contains information for the preparation of transportation reports.
Forward recommended changes to improve these reports to the HQ AMC functional OPR.
Transportation reports form the basis for management decisions relative to airlift capability
application and in some instances the purchase of commercial augmentation. These reports also
provide management key indicators of port operations and also serve to maintain visibility on all
movements and related data to and from the port. Therefore, it is imperative reports contain
accurate and auditable data. Furthermore, it is essential to submit reports in accordance with
submission requirements of this volume. Stations preparing reports are responsible for the
accuracy of the data in all reports submitted.
11. Automation in Aerial Ports. Ports should use automation to the maximum extent possible
in their processes. If automation is available that captures and maintains the same information
 22                                                             AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


done manually, it is expected that the automated process will be used. This saves time and
resources, helps ensure data accuracy and enhances the ability to share information.
12. Database Management and Integrity. Database management is vital to rapid processing,
accurate portrayal of port levels, and billing data. Data integrity plays a major part in AMC’s
ability to recover TWCF dollars spent on transportation movements. Port management will
ensure the integrity of billing data is never compromised and make every effort to avoid loss of
TWCF revenue.
   12.1. Reports. Aggressive management of reports provides an accurate picture of port
   levels. Port management must review the Frustrated Cargo, Deleted Cargo, Mission
   Capability (MICAP), Purple Sheet, Green Sheet, 999 cargo, passenger suspense listing,
   excessive Port Hold Time (PHT) and System Entry Time reports daily. Port management
   can view other reports, to include locally produced reports, as local policy dictates, but must
   review them at least weekly. This includes the following reports as a minimum: Over and
   Short Shipment Reports; Port Level by Destination; Pallet Listing Report; Manifest Header
   Summary; Movement Report (Outbound); Mission Recap; Detail Movement Report; Missing
   Manifest Report; Inbound and Outbound Truck Report. Examples of discrepancies to look
   for are incorrect onward modes, excessive PHT hours, wrong Aerial Port of Debarkation
   (APOD), misuse of deleted records, etc. Additionally, port management will ensure proper
   follow-up is provided on DD Form 361, Transportation Discrepancy Report (TDR). Port
   management must ensure proper documentation is received to fully account for over and
   short shipments. Finally, port management must review cargo inventories as dictated, but not
   less than every other day, to ensure all discrepancies are resolved.
   12.2. Deletion of Cargo. Air terminal management will identify, in writing, those
   individuals authorized to delete cargo. They will maintain strict controls on the number of
   individuals authorized to delete cargo and closely monitor for misuse. All cargo deletions
   will be properly documented to provide a clear audit trail. Port management dictates how the
   audit trail is maintained but electronic means are preferred. At a minimum, data records will
   maintain the cargo deletion authorization letter, a copy of any Transportation Control
   Number (TCN)/cargo deletion memorandums, Deleted Cargo Reports, and Track and Trace
   printouts from GATES. Locally produced procedures must be able to withstand AF audit or
   investigations by the Office of Special Investigations. Refer to paragraph 14 of this
   instruction before deleting cargo from GATES.
       12.2.1. The Deleted Cargo Report in GATES retrieves cargo deletions occurring during
       the last twenty-four hours, making it imperative to pull this report at the same time daily.
       Port management ensures personnel are available or a process is in place to run this
       report daily via GATES.
13. Over Shipments. Un-manifested air shipments of cargo or mail arriving at an AMC air
terminal are considered over shipped. Over shipments can result in lost revenue to TWCF. Ports
will ensure over shipments are manifested capturing the original Aerial Port of Embarkation
(APOE) to ensure proper billing and revenue collection into the TWCF. Upon identification of
over shipped cargo, the APOD enters the over shipment in GATES while in-checking cargo. The
over shipping activity in GATES is not used in lieu of a manifest. If a mission arrives without a
manifest, contact the previous station(s) to coordinate manifesting efforts. Upon initial
notification from the APOD, the APOE must respond acknowledging the over shipment within
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                    23


three duty days. Close over shipments in GATES immediately following the response. Ensure
the manifest totals have been adjusted to reflect the addition of over shipped cargo to that
manifest. Pen and ink changes are authorized. Over shipment reports may be printed from
GATES. In-transit stations receiving Over Shipment notifications will file all documentation in
accordance with existing directives to provide a clear audit trail from the APOE, through their
station, to the APOD. Over shipments are transmitted under the original mission number for
ITV purposes.
   13.1. At non-GATES locations, Cargo Processing/Aircraft Services section identifies the
   over shipment on the manifest. The Data Records section checks short shipment files to
   determine if the shipment was reported as a short shipment. Over shipments are transmitted
   under the original mission number for ITV purposes.
14. Short, Cannot Locate, Lost, Pilfered Shipments, Damaged or Confiscated Shipments
   14.1. Short Shipments. Air manifested cargo or mail not located upon cargo in-checking is
   considered short shipped cargo. Short Shipments will be brought to the attention of Data
   Records by the GATES Over/Short Shipment Report, reviewed daily, or by receiving a cargo
   manifest annotated in accordance with AMCI 24-101 Volume 11.
       14.1.1. The Data Records Section checks to determine if the shipment was received on a
       prior mission. GATES sites will use the automated Over/Short Message Log provided to
       cross-reference lost or short shipments with previously received over shipments. At non-
       GATES locations, the Data Records section will develop a logbook for cross-referencing
       lost or short shipments with the following headings at a minimum:
          14.1.1.1. Case number-Your unit designator followed by a four-digit sequential
          number, e.g. FB4427-0026. Begin case numbers at 0001 at the beginning of each
          fiscal year.
          14.1.1.2. First Message Action. Enter the electronic message date time group
          (DTG), e-mail date, time and subject or letter/memorandum date and subject, as
          applicable, of the first tracer request.
          14.1.1.3. Second Message Action. If applicable, enter the electronic message DTG,
          e-mail date, time and subject or letter/memorandum date and subject, as applicable, of
          the second tracer request.
          14.1.1.4. Request for Information (RFI) DD Form 361. If applicable, enter the
          electronic message DTG, e-mail date, time and subject or letter/ memorandum date
          and subject, as applicable, of the RFI tracer action.
          14.1.1.5. Disposition.    Enter final disposition of shipment, e.g., received at
          consignee.
       14.1.2. General Cargo Short Shipped. For non-priority short shipments, send messages
       within three calendar days of aircraft arrival to the APOE shown on the manifest TCMD
       line item. Failure to send the message within the time allotted can result in loss to the
       TWCF and could require extensive help from the C2 Call Center GATES Help Desk in
       order to resolve.
          14.1.2.1. Send the short shipment message to the manifesting station, each en route
          stop of the aircraft (including postal activities for registered mail), and final
24                                                               AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


         destination of the aircraft, if applicable. Stations receiving the message will send
         replies to the station initiating the report no later than three calendar days after receipt
         of short shipment notification.           The GATES over/short message function
         automatically assigns case numbers when transmitting a message and will
         automatically send the message to the applicable stations.
         14.1.2.2. The station reporting the short shipment initiates Second Message Action
         within six calendar days should addressees fail to respond and/or shipment still has
         not been located.
         14.1.2.3. If the shipment is still unaccounted for after ten calendar days of initial
         discrepancy, initiate a RFI using DD Form 361 filled out in accordance with DOD
         4500.9-R, Part II, Chapter 210, and send to the consignee. In Part I of DD Form 361,
         check the block with the words Request for Information (RFI) to inquire about receipt
         or non-receipt of shipment. Enter the following remarks in Block 28 of DD Form
         361: “Shipment was manifested to this destination, but never arrived at this facility.
         Request delivery information on shipment(s) per DOD 4500.9-R. Forward your
         replies to this activity within five duty days of receipt. Acceptable replies are via fax,
         e-mail, or phone.” Enter point of contact name, e-mail, telephone and fax number in
         blocks 29a through 29d. A locally produced RFI may be used in lieu of DD Form
         361 if it contains the same information.
         14.1.2.4. If completed tracer action fails to locate the shipment within thirty calendar
         days from the RFI TDR, follow the procedures for Lost Shipments in paragraph 14.3.
         Note: Several tools are available to assist the ports in locating missing cargo.
         GATES Track and Trace, the Integrated Data Environment (IDE)/Global
         Transportation      Network     (GTN)       Convergence       (IGC)     and      Tracker
         (https://Tracker.wpafb.af.mil) are all available to assist in locating cannot locate
         cargo. Additionally, if a Radio Frequency Identification tag number is available for
         the missing shipment, Data Records personnel can check the National Radio
         Frequency-ITV Server (https://national.rfitv.army.mil) to determine the “last seen”
         location of the item.
     14.1.3. Priority Shipments Short Shipped. Send short shipment messages for signature
     service, perishable cargo, registered mail, and MICAP/ Very Very Important Parts
     (VVIP) shipments by message within twelve hours of aircraft arrival. All stations must
     research and respond to priority short shipment messages within twenty-four hours.
     Reporting stations initiate second message action at thirty-six hours if addressees fail to
     respond.
  14.2. Cannot Locate Shipments. Items that are in-checked/processed, but not located in
  the terminal are considered Cannot Locate Shipments. After Cargo Processing/Aircraft
  Services section performs a thorough physical inventory of the terminal complex, and Track
  and Trace in GATES, they will inform Data Records of the suspected loss. For
  classified/protected shipments and all shipments of arms, ammunition and explosives, Data
  Records will initiate an RFI immediately via telephone and send a follow-up message within
  twenty-four hours to the consignee, up line stations and down line stations. For all other
  shipments, Data Records will send an RFI using DD Form 361 and send to the consignee, up
  line stations, and down line stations within seven calendar days. A locally produced RFI
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                     25


  may be used in lieu of DD Form 361. If completed tracer action fails to locate the shipment
  within thirty calendar days, follow the procedures for Lost Shipments in paragraph 14.3.
  14.3. Lost Shipments. If, after thirty days, the RFI action, messages, and tracer actions fail
  to locate either a Short Shipment or a Cannot Locate Shipment in the AMC system, it is
  considered a lost shipment. Initiate a TDR using DD Form 361, in triplicate. Copy one and
  duplicate copies of supporting documents will be mailed to the consignee. The second copy
  and original supporting documents will be retained for station files. Include a statement in
  Block 28 of DD Form 361 that the consignee confirms non-receipt, in addition to the
  following statement: (Reference the case number, etc.). "Shipment could not be located in the
  AMC system and has been declared lost. Use these documents to support any claim for
  reimbursement of unearned transportation charges. However, actions should be taken
  through supply channels to locate lost shipment prior to submitting claim.” Enter point of
  contact name, e-mail, telephone and fax number in blocks 29a through 29d. A locally
  produced RFI may be used in lieu of DD Form 361, if it contains the same information.
     14.3.1. Once the TDR is submitted and the case file is closed, send a formal notification
     message with the third copy of the TDR to the manifesting station. This formal
     notification message can be electronic or hard copy. At GATES sites, once the
     manifesting station receives the TDR, remove the cargo from FRA status by deleting the
     shipment using deletion code DLF (Cargo Lost). Maintain all documentation on file in
     accordance with existing directives to provide a clear audit trail. Non-automated sites
     must follow the same procedures. Arbitrary deletion of cargo without proper
     documentation is never authorized and could be cause for investigation for possible
     pilferage through audit agencies and/or Security Forces. Port operations officers must be
     extremely proactive in ensuring they receive needed documentation and forward
     noncompliance through their respective chain of command. If shipment is subsequently
     found, update the TDR in accordance with DOD 4500.9-R, Part II, Chapter 210.
  14.4. Pilfered Shipments. Items that were previously in-checked and are now missing due
  to suspected theft are considered Pilfered Shipments. Air terminal management will
  immediately notify Security Forces once theft is suspected. If the Security Forces’
  investigation does not locate the shipment within fifteen calendar days, initiate a TDR using
  DD Form 361, filled out in accordance with DOD 4500.9-R, Part II, Chapter 210. In Block
  28, include the following statement, “Shipment cannot be located in the AMC system and has
  been reported to Security Forces for investigation of possible theft. The investigation will
  continue. If shipment is subsequently located, all concerned will be notified.” If, after
  fifteen additional days, the Security Forces are unable to recover the items, initiate a follow
  up TDR and annotate the TDR in Block 28 with this statement, “Shipment cannot be located
  in the AMC system and has been reported to Security Forces for investigation of possible
  theft. Security Forces are unable to recover shipment. Use these documents to support any
  claim for reimbursement of unearned transportation charges.” Distribute the TDR as follows.
  Send the first copy and copies of supporting documents to the consignor. Send the second
  copy and copies of supporting documents to the consignee. Send the third copy and copies
  of supporting documents to Security Forces. File one copy of the TDR, with original
  supporting documents, in the pilfered shipment files in accordance with AFRIMS. Provide a
  copy of each TDR to the commercial contractor if the mission was an AMC contracted
  carrier.
26                                                            AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


  14.5. Damaged Shipments. In the event a shipment is damaged within the AMC airlift
  system, aerial port personnel will take the following action:
     14.5.1. If an inspection reveals the contents are slightly damaged, the air freight officer/
     superintendent (contract station manager) will determine if the shipment should be sent to
     its destination. The Customer Service Branch (CSB)/Air Clearance Authority (ACA)
     or equivalent authority will have the contents inspected by a qualified individual to
     determine if the shipment should be sent in its present condition. The aerial port will
     initiate a TDR using DD Form 361 within fifteen days explaining the cause of damage in
     the remarks section.
     14.5.2. If an inspection reveals the contents are damaged beyond economical repair,
     frustrate the shipment to the CSB/ACA, or equivalent authority. The aerial port will
     initiate a TDR using DD Form 361 within fifteen days advising the degree of damage and
     requesting disposition instructions from the shipper. Send an information copy of the DD
     Form 361, to the CSB/ACA or equivalent authority. Annotate the reverse side of the
     station copy of the TCMD/manifest with details of the damage and the date/time HQ
     AMC/A4TC (Amc.a4tcp@us.af.mil) was notified.
     14.5.3. Any DD Form 361, pertaining to personal property shipments will include the
     member's name, grade and the shipment TCN.
     14.5.4. Prepare a DD Form 361 when instances of unsatisfactory preservation,
     packaging, or marking of shipments are encountered.
     14.5.5. Mail Shipments. Inspect all mail shipments for damage or unlabeled pouches at
     in-checking. If a shipment/pouch is terminated because it is damaged or has illegible,
     loose or torn labels within the AMC airlift system, annotate the reverse side of the
     TCMD/manifest with details of the deficiency and final disposition. Transfer the
     pouches to the appropriate agency and obtain a recipient’s signature and printed name on
     the TCMD/manifest. Attach a signed copy to the inbound manifest for filing.
  14.6. Confiscated Shipments. A cargo/mail shipment within the Defense Transportation
  System (DTS) that is removed due to pilferage, spoilage, suspicion of containing illegal
  items, etc., is considered to be a confiscated shipment. When a cargo/mail shipment is
  confiscated, the air terminal obtains a receipt from the confiscating agency on a TCMD or
  appropriate transportation release document as if the shipment were terminating. Annotate
  the document with the reason the shipment was removed from the AMC system.
     14.6.1. Advise the consignor, consignee, and HQ AMC/A4TC (Amc.a4tcp@us.af.mil)
     that the shipment has been confiscated. Make notification by e-mail, fax, or priority
     message. If the shipment is released by the confiscating agency within fifteen days,
     originating stations will process it as an originating shipment and notify the consignor,
     consignee, and HQ AMC/A4TC that the shipment has been released for onward
     movement to the destination. Enroute stations document and process the shipment as an
     in-transit shipment and notify the consignor, consignee, and HQ AMC/A4TC that the
     shipment has been released for airlift to the destination.
     14.6.2. If the shipment is not released from the confiscating agency within fifteen days,
     the air terminal representative where the confiscating action took place initiates a TDR
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                         27


      using DD Form 361 to advise the consignor and consignee of the confiscated status so
      action may be taken.
15. AMC Form 82, Monthly Station Traffic Handling Report, RCS: AMC A4T (M) 7107
(7107 Report).
   15.1. Purpose. This report is used to compile transportation workload data to document facts
   for various studies and provide metrics data for analysis of AMC operations.
   15.2. Use this form to document workload of AMC air terminals (to include aerial port
   mobility and aerial delivery support flights as applicable), AMC transportation squadrons or
   traffic management offices, AMC OLs, detachments (DET), Contingency Response Groups,
   terminals operated under the AMC- Commander, Navy Installations Command
   Memorandum of Agreement, and any other operation in support of AMC aircraft on-load and
   off-load functions. Submit the report through the 7107 web-site at
   https://apps2.amc.af.mil/AMC7107. Digital signatures are authorized for electronic filing
   but, if not available, keep a signed paper copy on file for historical or audit purpose and
   dispose of in accordance with AFRIMS. Also maintain supporting documentation, e.g. AMC
   Form 56, AMC Form 65, Aircraft Reserviced Workload, AMC Form 85, etc., in accordance
   with AFRIMS. Locations that do not have access to .mil web sites will submit a copy of the
   report to HQ AMC/A4TID by e-mail to org.amca4-70@us.af.mil or Fax to DSN 312-779-
   7936/Commercial 618-229-7936. If necessary, mail the report to HQ AMC/A4TID, 402
   Scott Drive, Unit 2A2, Scott AFB IL 62225-5308. HQ AMC/A4TID will enter the data into
   the 7107 database.
      15.2.1. Reporting Instructions. Each unit prepares this report monthly as of 2400Z on the
      last day of the month. Supporting documents for the 7107 report, e.g. AMC Form 56,
      AMC Form 65, AMC Form 85, etc., from each work center need to be in the Data
      Records section as soon as possible after the end of the month to allow Data Records
      personnel time to compile the report. The completed report needs to be approved by the
      approval authority and entered into the 7107 website by the twentieth day of the month.
      If access to the 7107 website is not possible, submit a copy of the report to HQ
      AMC/A4TID by e-mail to org.amca4-70@us.af.mil or Fax to DSN 312-779-
      7936/Commercial 618-229-7936. If necessary, mail the report to HQ AMC/A4TID, 402
      Scott Drive, Unit 2A2, Scott AFB IL 62225-5308. HQ AMC/A4TID will enter the data
      into the 7107 database.
   15.3. Security. This report is unclassified.
   15.4. Entries on AMC Form 82. All weight entries are in short tons (ST), i.e. weight/2,000
   pounds = ST, unless indicated differently below. Round off all tonnage figures to the nearest
   whole ton, e.g. 6.5 tons to 7 tons, 6.4 tons to 6 tons. If tonnage is less than .5 tons, leave the
   space blank. If the quantity reported is zero or if a requested entry is not applicable, leave the
   space blank.
      15.4.1. Heading. The appropriate RCS symbol for this report is RCS: AMC A4T (M)
      7107. Enter the month and year reported, station name, and three-letter code, e.g. Sep
      2010, Hickam, (HIK).
      15.4.2. Section I, Passengers. Enter the number of space required (S/R) and space
      available (S/A) passengers moved. Do not separate TWCF and Non-TWCF passengers
28                                                           AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


     for AF operated terminals. Enter total number of passengers moved in the appropriate
     TWCF blocks. Navy operated AMC Terminals are still required to separate TWCF and
     Non-TWCF passengers. Passengers from the terminal back-log, airlifted on an AMC
     SAM or Special Assignment Airlift Mission (SAAM) are shown as TWCF traffic.
        15.4.2.1. Originating. Enter the total number of passengers manifested from the
        reporting station. Use the boarding manifests as source documents.
        15.4.2.2. Terminating. Enter the total number of passengers manifested to the
        reporting station. Use terminating manifests as source documents.
        15.4.2.3. Through. Enter the total number of passengers transiting the station en
        route to other locations. Use through-load manifests as source documents.
        15.4.2.4. Rehandled/Reprocessed. Enter the total number of rehandled passengers.
        Rehandled passengers are described as any passenger that is offloaded, transported,
        antihijacked, manifested, and / or boarded again after initial processing when the
        circumstances for these actions are beyond the control of the PSC or air terminal.
        Use the completed AMC Form 108, Passenger Rehandled Workload, as the source
        document for this information.
        15.4.2.5. Total. Enter by row and column the total passengers moved. The sum of
        the rows should equal the sum of the columns. Next, enter the grand total by adding
        the total S/R and S/A passenger figures. Values will automatically total when the
        form is completed electronically.
     15.4.3. Section II, Cargo and Mail. Enter the total tons of cargo and mail moved by
     airlift. Do not separate TWCF and Non-TWCF cargo and mail for AF operated terminals.
     Enter total tons of cargo and mail moved in the appropriate TWCF blocks. Navy
     operated AMC Terminals are still required to separate TWCF and Non-TWCF cargo.
     Cargo from the terminal back-log, airlifted on an AMC SAM or SAAM are shown as
     TWCF traffic. Report all workload processed, up-loaded, and/or down-loaded through
     the terminal from airlift missions. All tonnage reported must have source documentation
     e.g. load plan, manifest, DD Form 365-4, Weight and Balance Clearance Form F –
     Transport/Tactical. Report the total tonnage for all cargo and mail that originated or
     terminated via airlift mission. Report all land bridge cargo and mail in Section III, Land
     Bridge (paragraph 15.4.4.5.).
        15.4.3.1. Originating. Enter the combined gross cargo and mail tonnage air
        manifested out of the station in the cargo and mail blocks. Source documents are
        originating air cargo and mail manifests, load plans, and DD Form 365-4.
        15.4.3.2. Terminating. Enter combined gross cargo and mail tonnage air manifested
        into the station in the cargo and mail blocks. Source documents are terminating cargo
        and mail manifests, load plans, and DD Form 365-4.
        15.4.3.3. Rehandled/Reprocessed. Enter cargo and mail tonnage rehandled due to
        requirement changes outside the control of the air terminal, including load re-
        sequencing, bumped pallets, load switches, pallet reconfiguration, cargo diversions
        (destination or mode), or returning loads to storage locations after mission changes.
        Ensure rehandled numbers are not reported for correcting terminal errors. Use the
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                      29


        completed AMC Form 56 as the source document for this information. Use
        completed AMC Form 33, Report of Frustrated Cargo, as the source document for
        frustrated general cargo shipments. For frustrated hazardous materials use the AMC
        Form 1015 as the source document.
        15.4.3.4. Alternate Mission Equipment (AME). Enter total amount of AME. AME
        is defined as equipment that can be installed or removed in order to achieve a specific
        mission, i.e., Air Transportable Galley/Lavatory (ATGL), Patient Support Pallet
        (PSP), seat kit, etc. Units will also manually input actual tonnage of any additional
        equipment loaded or offloaded not specified below. Identify all additional AME in
        the Remarks section. Source documents are load plan or AF Form 4080, manifest,
        and DD Form 365-4.
            15.4.3.4.1. KC-10 Seats. Each seat pallet is reported as .5 STs for each pallet
            loaded and unloaded. Use the standard weight of 2 STs off-loaded and 2 STs on-
            loaded for each full set of KC-10 seats (four seat pallets) that must be handled
            during KC-10 cargo loading operations to calculate on/off-load totals.
            15.4.3.4.2. ATGL. Use 2 ST for each onload/offload.
            15.4.3.4.3. PSP and Seat Kit. Use .5 STs for each onload/offload of either item;
            expeditionary mission requirements dictate use of medical support pallet with
            PSP.
        15.4.3.5. Total. Enter the total weight of TWCF and non-TWCF AME, cargo, and
        mail into the total column. The sum of the rows should equal the sum of the cargo
        columns. Next, enter the grand total by adding the total cargo, mail and AME
        figures. Values will automatically total when the form is completed electronically.
        15.4.3.6. Pre-Built Pallets. Enter the total number of pre-built pallets and gross
        weight of those pallets on-loaded. Populate these blocks with originating pallets from
        the Defense Logistics Agency or similar agency. Pallet Identification (ID) will begin
        with 101, 201, etc. Do not include unit deployment cargo from any service. The
        gross tonnage of this block will not be added to the grand total, as it is already
        accounted for in the originating cargo blocks.
     15.4.4. Section III, General Information. All cargo and passenger information reported
     in paragraphs 15.4.4.1. and 15.4.4.2. below will also be included in Sections I and II.
        15.4.4.1. Special Category Passengers. Enter total special category S/R and S/A
        passengers manifested to, from, and through the station. Special category passengers
        include distinguished visitors, i.e. military, civilian, and foreign national personnel in
        the grade of O-6/Colonel (or equivalent) and above; BLUE BARK passengers;
        dependent students not traveling with parent or legal guardian; COIN ASSIST; Next
        of Kin for Very Seriously Ill; AMC Mission Observers; and Medal of Honor
        recipients. Travel authorizations issued for non-government employed civilians will
        show which passengers are distinguished visitors. Use ALLOAD message,
        manifests, and other types of travel authorizations as source document.
        15.4.4.2. Special Handling Cargo. Enter the total shipments, pieces, and tons of
        originating and terminating special handling cargo. For reporting purposes, special
30                                                            AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


        handling cargo is defined as any cargo having a special handling code of other than
        “Z” or “L” and any cargo requiring special care in its acceptance, packaging, security,
        environmental control, handling, air movement, or combination of these factors.
        Categories include, but are not limited to, signature service, registered mail, AMC
        MICAP, VVIP, refrigerated or biological shipments, firearms, ammunition,
        explosives, green sheet cargo, etc. All tonnage reported must have source
        documentation, e.g. load plan, manifest, DD Form 365-4.
        15.4.4.3. Manifests. Enter the total number of manifests processed to include
        originating and terminating cargo, mail, and passenger manifests.
        15.4.4.4. Truck Dock. In this section each unit will report all truck dock operations.
        Enter the total shipments, pieces, and tonnage on and off-loaded by unit personnel in
        the appropriate blocks. Use manifests and local records to support the data reported
        in this section.
        15.4.4.5. Land bridge. In this section each unit will report all land bridge operations.
        Enter the total manifests, pieces, and tonnage on and off-loaded by unit personnel in
        the appropriate blocks. Use manifests and local records to support the data reported
        in this section.
        15.4.4.6. Cargo Processing. Enter the total shipments and pieces of originating and
        terminating air cargo and mail (not to include special handling) processed in the
        appropriate blocks. Do not report any shipments or pieces associated with
        reprocessing of cargo here; identify this data in the Remarks Section, to provide
        information on reprocessed cargo. Use manifests and local records to support the
        data reported in this section.
        15.4.4.7. Customer Service Branch/ACA. Enter the total number of items frustrated
        or green/purple sheeted, and the number of tracer actions completed. Frustrated items
        are shipments that were no-hits, had erroneous or missing labels, non-billable
        Transportation Account Code, damaged shipments, improper documentation, etc.
        Use AMC Form 33 as the source document. Use AMC Form 1003, Transportation
        Project Action Request, to count tracer actions. If the unit does not have a CSB, leave
        this section blank.
     15.4.5. Section IV, Aircraft Handled by Type. Enter the number of aircraft handled by
     category and type of aircraft. Separation of TWCF and Non-TWCF aircraft handled for
     AF operated terminals is no longer required, although it is permissible to do so if required
     by local management. Enter the total number of aircraft handled in the appropriate TWCF
     blocks. Navy operated AMC Terminals are still required to separate TWCF and Non-
     TWCF aircraft handled. For reporting "other" aircraft, identify by type, e.g., C-12, C-21,
     etc., by listing in the Remarks Section. Title this list “Other Military Aircraft Handled”
     or “Other Commercial Aircraft Handled” as applicable. Aircraft Handled is defined for
     this section as the total number of aircraft arrivals and departures that require service by
     aerial port operations. Do not report static aircraft handled during base mobilizations or
     other exercises in this section. Use completed AMC Form 85 as the source document. A
     computer-generated report may be used in lieu of the current AMC Form 85 provided it
     contains the necessary information.
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                       31


        15.4.5.1. TWCF. Enter total number of TWCF aircraft that have arrived and
        departed. Use completed AMC Form 85 as the source document.
        15.4.5.2. Non-TWCF. Enter total number of Non-TWCF aircraft that have arrived
        and departed. Use completed AMC Form 85 as the source document.
        15.4.5.3. Rehandled Aircraft. Enter total aircraft rehandled due to requirements
        outside the control of the ATOC or terminal, e.g. delays, load change, cancellations,
        mission changes, etc., resulting in re-accomplishment of load planning or requiring an
        ATOC representative to make additional trips to an aircraft. Use completed AMC
        Form 56 as the source document for rehandled aircraft.
        15.4.5.4. Total Handled. Enter total aircraft handled by row. Next, enter the grand
        total by adding the figures in the total handled column. Values will automatically
        total when the form is completed electronically.
        15.4.5.5. Cancelled or Diverted. Enter the total number of AMC Forms 77 initiated
        but not completed on inbound and outbound aircraft due to mission cancellations.
        For diverted aircraft, annotate the number of diverts in the respective block and also
        in the aircraft handled by type block. Next, enter the grand total by adding the figures
        in the Canx/Divert columns. Values will automatically total when the form is
        completed electronically.
     15.4.6. Section V, Aircraft Fleeted. Enter the number of aircraft receiving fleet service
     by type aircraft. Information for this section is taken from AMC Form 244. Next, enter
     the grand total by adding the figures in the Serviced/Reserviced columns. Values will
     automatically total when the form is completed electronically.
        15.4.6.1. Aircraft Serviced. Enter the total of aircraft that received fleet service of
        any kind by type aircraft, as listed in Section IV. Take credit for the specified number
        of aircraft fleet serviced for each of the following actions:
            15.4.6.1.1. Pre-fleet, fleet, and final fleet servicing of an aircraft originating your
            station is one aircraft fleet serviced.
            15.4.6.1.2. De-fleeting and final fleet servicing of an aircraft terminating your
            station is one aircraft fleet serviced.
            15.4.6.1.3. Work performed on backup or standby aircraft when required by the
            type mission e.g., PHOENIX BANNER, etc., count as one aircraft fleet serviced.
            Remarks section of AMC Form 244 will have tail number of backup aircraft and
            substantive rationale for any work performed.
            15.4.6.1.4. Work performed during maintenance calls to aircraft in a non-flying
            status. Take credit only when the work is required to accomplish aircraft or
            latrine maintenance, e.g., aircraft going into/returning from maintenance dock,
            major aircraft maintenance inspections, major aircraft refurbishment, or latrine
            leaks. Draining a latrine counts as one aircraft fleet serviced. Filling a latrine
            counts as one aircraft fleet serviced. Ensure reason for the workload is
            documented on an AMC Form 244. Do not count as re-serviced workload.
            15.4.6.1.5. An in-transit aircraft is counted as two aircraft fleet serviced upon
            departure, e.g. a C-17 transits Yokota Air Base with four hours ground time
32                                                            AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


            planned. Upon arrival, the aircraft latrine and galley are serviced, trash emptied,
            and floor swept. Upon departure, food, water, and coffee are delivered. Take
            credit for two aircraft fleet serviced.
            15.4.6.1.6. For an aircraft tail swap, take credit as follows. Pre-fleet, fleet, and
            final fleet servicing of a substitute aircraft counts as one aircraft fleet serviced.
            Servicing the originally scheduled aircraft counts as one aircraft fleet serviced.
            De-fleeting original aircraft counts as one aircraft re-serviced, for a total two
            aircraft fleet serviced and one aircraft re-serviced.
        15.4.6.2. Aircraft Re-serviced. Enter the combined total of TWCF and non-TWCF
        aircraft, by type aircraft as listed in Section IV, re-serviced due to requirement
        changes outside the control of the air terminal, e.g. mission aborts, delays,
        cancellations, re-routes, aircraft swaps, and/or lavatory re-charging. Use completed
        AMC Form 65 as the source document for this information.
     15.4.7. Section VI, Airdrop. Enter the number of airdrop items by type load, Heavy or
     Container Delivery System (CDS) and by Service, i.e. Air Force or Other. Also enter the
     number of Simulated Air Training Bundles (SATB). Number loaded is the number of
     airdrop items loaded and number off-loaded are those items returned and off-loaded
     rather than airdropped.
     15.4.8. Section VII, Traffic Management Office
        15.4.8.1. Packing and Crating (Base Originating). For each category, Less than a
        Truck Load (LTL)/Truck Load (TL) and Military (Mil) Air/Small Parcel, enter the
        number of TCNs, pieces, and pounds.
        15.4.8.2. Transshipment LTL/TL. For each category, enter the number of TCN’s,
        pieces, and pounds for import (CONUS Bound) and export (OCONUS Bound)
        shipments.
     15.4.8.3. Inbound shipments - Enter the number of TCN’s, pieces, and pounds for
     inbound shipments.
        15.4.8.4. Third Party Payment System (TPPS).             Enter the total number of
        transactions conducted and the total amount paid.
        15.4.8.5. Cargo Totals. Enter the number of TCNs, pieces and weight in pounds.
        Values will automatically total when the form is completed electronically.
        15.4.8.6. Passenger (PAX) Travel Tickets. For each category, AMC missions and
        commercial flights, enter the number of PAX ticketed and the cost associated with
        those tickets. In the total column, add the number of PAX ticketed for AMC
        missions and commercial flights together and enter the total. Add together the cost
        for AMC missions and commercial flights and enter the total. Values will
        automatically total when the form is completed electronically.
        15.4.8.7. Personal Property. Enter the number of shipments processed using DD
        Form 1299, Application for Shipment and/or Storage of Personal Property and DD
        Form 2278, Application for Do It Yourself Move and Counseling Checklist into the
        appropriate columns. Enter the total number of all personal property shipments in the
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                     33


           Total # of Shipments column. Values will automatically total when the form is
           completed electronically.
       15.4.9. Section VIII, Authentications. Authentication can be done electronically if
       available. When using the manual form, ensure there is a printed/typed name and
       rank/grade of the preparer and approver and they sign in their respective blocks. Keep a
       copy on file in accordance with AFRIMS. The squadron commander, or a representative
       designated in writing by the squadron commander, is the approving official in an Aerial
       Port Squadron (APS), Air Mobility Squadron (AMS), or Logistics Readiness Squadron
       (LRS). The OL Chief, or other government representative as specified by the parent unit
       commander, is the approving official in a Det or OL. At contracted and Air Mobility
       Command Gateway locations, the report will be prepared and approved per the written
       contract.
16. AMC Form 56, Rehandled Workload. AMC Form 56 is designed to provide management
of the ATOC and Air Freight sections with an overview of the rehandled workload for their
respective sections. Additionally, it is one of the source documents for the 7107 report. The
control function within each work center ensures all information recorded on AMC Form 56 is
accurate and properly completed in GATES. Leave any block not requiring an entry blank. It’s
the responsibility of the OIC or Superintendent of each aerial port function to review and ensure
their work section is properly inputting their information into GATES. See AMCI 24-101,
Volume 9, for preparation and submission instructions. Non-automated locations must provide
this form to the Data Records section, along with all source documentation, in time for Data
Records to complete the 7107 report by the twentieth of the month. Attach to the station file
copy of the 7107 report.
17. AMC Form 65, Aircraft Reserviced Workload. AMC Form 65, is designed to provide
Fleet Service management with an overview of their re-servicing workload. Additionally, it’s
one of the source documents for the 7107 report. The control function within each work center
ensures all information recorded on AMC Form 65 is accurate and properly completed in
GATES. Leave any block not requiring an entry blank. It’s the responsibility of the OIC or
Superintendent of Fleet Service to review and ensure their work section is properly inputting
their information into GATES. See AMCI 24-101, Volume 10, Military Airlift- Fleet Service,
for preparation and submission instructions. Non-automated locations must provide this form to
the Data Records section, along with all source documentation, in time for Data Records to
complete the 7107 report by the twentieth of the month. Attach to the station file copy of the
7107 report.
18. AMC Form 85, Aircraft Handled by Type. The AMC Form 85 is designed to provide Data
Records personnel a record of all aircraft reported on the 7107 report. ATOC completes an
AMC Form 85 each day of the month even if no aircraft were handled during the twenty-four
hour reporting period. Count all TWCF and non-TWCF aircraft handled; originating,
terminating, or both. Non-automated locations must provide this form to the Data Records
section, along with all source documentation, in time for Data Records to complete the 7107
report by the twentieth of the month. Attach to the station file copy of the 7107 report.
19. AMC Form 108, Passenger Rehandled Workload. AMC Form 108 is designed to provide
Passenger Service management with an overview of their rehandled passenger workload.
Additionally, it is one of the source documents for the 7107 report. Leave any block not
 34                                                             AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


requiring an entry blank. It’s the responsibility of the OIC or Superintendent of Passenger
Services to review and ensure their work section is properly inputting their information into
GATES. See AMCI 24-101, Volume 14 for preparation and submission instructions. Non-
automated locations must provide this form to the Data Records section, along with all source
documentation, in time for Data Records to complete the 7107 report by the twentieth of the
month. Attach to the station file copy of the 7107 report.
20. Station On-Hand Channel Report, RCS: AMC (AR) 7115. This report is designated
emergency status code C2. Continue reporting during emergency conditions, normal
precedence. Submit data requirements in this category as prescribed, or as soon as possible after
submission of priority reports. Continue electronic reporting during MINIMIZE.
   20.1. This report reflects the amount of movement ready channel cargo/mail on hand and
   cargo moved on channel missions in the last twenty-four hours, as well as other necessary
   data for efficient application of airlift and other overall management actions. Table 3 is an
   example using Microsoft Excel. Each station must use this format. Entries pertaining to
   cargo and mail are in tons by tenths and Equivalent Pallet Positions (EPP).
   20.2. 618 Air and Space Operations Center (Tanker Airlift Control Center) (618 AOC
   (TACC))/XOG in coordination with HQ AMC/A4T directs identification of reporting
   stations. Frequency will be as directed by 618 AOC (TACC)/XOG. This report has been
   automated and is posted daily on the TACC web site. Use the following link to view station
   specific products: https://tacc.scott.af.mil/directorates/xog/analysis.asp. All stations
   required to accomplish this report will view their data on a daily basis to verify the
   information reflected matches the current channel cargo on-hand levels as of the cut off time.
   It is imperative that units ensure this data is accurate. Any disparities that cannot be
   corrected by the local unit will be reported immediately to 618 AOC (TACC)/XOGD.
   Disparities will be narrowed down by 618 AOC (TACC)/XOGD as either a local or GATES
   issue. Local issues will have to be corrected by the station. 618 AOC (TACC)/XOGD will
   address the GATES issues to include follow up with appropriate agencies to resolution. Cut-
   off time is 2400Z. Each twenty-four hour period is from 0001Z to 2400Z.
       20.2.1. Offshore Reporting Stations: Al Udeid (IUD), Bagram (OA1), Bahrain (BAH),
       Bastion (AZ1), Diego Garcia (NKW), Djibouti (JIB), Guam (UAM), Hickam (HIK),
       Incirlik (ADA), Kadena (DNA), Kandahar (KDH), Kuwait (KWI), Osan (OSN),
       Ramstein (RMS), Rota (RTA), Sigonella (SIZ), Singapore (QPG), and Yokota (OKO).
       20.2.2. Continental United States (CONUS) reporting stations:          Charleston (CHS),
       Dover (DOV), McGuire (WRI), Norfolk (NGU), and Travis (SUU).
       20.2.3. If there are problems with the automated product or GATES, 618 AOC
       (TACC)/XOG or HQ AMC may need to mandate stations implement a manual product.
       In these instances, the following information and formatting instructions are provided.
       The 618 AOC (TACC)/XOGD must receive the report no later than 0300Z daily.
       GATES, local station reports, and/or any manual documents will be used as source data.
           20.2.3.1. The Station On-hand Channel Report is dispatched via e-mail to
           TACC.XOGD@us.af.mil. Primary means of transmission will be e-mail, but if
           necessary, the report may be faxed to DSN 779-7876/Commercial 618-229-7876. In
           addition, the report should be sent, as a courtesy copy to the following addresses: All
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                35


        offshore reports, Offshore.Cargo.Bookies@us.af.mil; NGU and WRI reports,
        618.TACC.XOGE.Bookie@us.af.mil;       CHS,    SUU,    and DOV   reports,
        618.TACC.XOGW@us.af.mil.
        20.2.3.2. Data to be Reported. Table 3 provides a sample format in Microsoft Excel
        with proper totaling formulas already entered. For all zero values leave blank.
           20.2.3.2.1. Part 1- Palletized and Loose Channel Cargo/Mail On-Hand by APOD.
           In this section do not include either rolling stock or train data. For palletized
           cargo, use the net weight, not the gross weight. Enter the total number of pallet
           positions for all palletized channel cargo for each on-hand APOD. Enter the total
           tonnage of all palletized channel cargo plus all loose channel cargo for each on-
           hand APOD. Break out Priority 1-3 and Priority 4 by Unattached and Attached.
           Attached cargo is load planned or manifested against a mission departing within
           the next twenty-four hour period.
           20.2.3.2.2. Part 2- Rolling Stock On-Hand by APOD.         Report rolling stock
           information using the same criteria as stated in Part 1.
           20.2.3.2.3. Part 3- Pallet Trains On-Hand by APOD.           Report pallet train
           information using the same criteria as stated in Part 1.
           20.2.3.2.4. Part 4- Moved last twenty-four hours. Report movement information
           for channel missions. For EPP, use the number of pallet positions utilized by the
           reporting station. In the weight column, use the net weight, not gross weight.
           20.2.3.2.5. Part 5- Remarks. Report anything significant or provide any
           comments which will aid bookies in providing timely airlift services.
     36                                                            AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


    Table 3. Station On-Hand Channel Report RCS: AMC (AR) 7115
           Stations On-Hand Channel Report RCS: AMC (AR)7115 (Example)
                                AS of 0001Z DD-MMM-YY
                                      RAMSTEIN AB
                           Unattached                       Attached
                    TP 1-2-3          TP-4          TP 1-2-3          TP-4          Total
CONFIG APOD      PLTS TONS PLTS TONS PLTS TONS PLTS TONS PLTS TONS
         ADA        5      6.3                                                   5       6.3
                                                                                               Part
         BAH       11     28.3                                                  11      28.3
                                                                                                1
        CONUS       7     15.3     2      3.2      18     27.4     2         2  29      48.9
  RS     FRU       1.6     2.2                                                  1.6      2.2   Part
         IUD       2.6     2.5                                                  2.6      2.5    2
   T2    ADJ        2      2.6                                                   2       2.6
        CONUS       8     14.4                                                   8      14.4
                                                                                               Part
         ADJ        3      1.8                                                   3         1.8
   T3                                                                                           3
         AVB        3      7.9                                     2             3       7.9
 Total   Total    43.2    82.3     2      3.2      18     27.4     2       2   65.2 114.9
  Dep    Dep                                              EPP     Net
                       Mission ID             A/C
  Date   Time                                            Used      Wt
24-Aug-
   03   04:40Z      XBWRFY600233            C005A           4      4
                                                                         Part
24-Aug-
                                                                           4
   03   09:23Z      ABW08G500237            C017A           9     21.2
24-Aug-
   03   10:25Z      BBRGDG50B237            B74720         19     30.4
                                             Total         32     55.6
                 Remarks
                                                         Part 5


    21. AMC Key Asset, Materials Handling Equipment (MHE) and Associated Aerial Port
    Equipment On-Hand Report, RCS: AMC A4T (M) 8001. This report is designated
    emergency status code C1. Continue reporting during emergency conditions, priority
    precedence. Submit data requirements as prescribed or by any means to ensure arrival on the
    established due dates. Continue electronic reporting during MINIMIZE.
        21.1. General. This report is a tool that informs HQ AMC/A4T and 618 AOC
        (TACC)/XOPM of the status of assets and equipment resources at all AMC owned and
        operated locations. Also, it reflects the status of 463L MHE and associated aerial port
        equipment. This report is divided into modules. Each module contains different data
        elements.
        21.2. Reporting. Individual reports are required from each unit/base possessing or using any
        AMC aerial port vehicles/equipment, i.e., APS, AMS, DET, OL, and LRS Air Terminals.
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                      37


       21.2.1. Accurate reporting is essential in the accountability of all 463L assets within the
       DTS. Each unit is required to report all 463L assets in their possession and submit a
       weekly 8001 asset report to HQ AMC/A4TR via the web based Global Asset Reporting
       Tool (GART) NLT 2100Z every Tuesday. The report can also be submitted when a unit
       feels HQ AMC needs to be informed of any significant changes in port capability, or
       when directed to do so by appropriate authority, e.g. Group, Numbered Air Force, etc.
       21.2.2. If units are unable to submit report via the web page, units will submit report to
       their respective Groups, Small Terminal Assistance Program, or Contract Air Terminal
       Operations office for submission via GART. When preparing this report, omit line items
       dealing with vehicles/equipment that are not assigned at the reporting stations.
       21.2.3. If web based reporting is unavailable and HQ AMC/A4T or 618 AOC
       (TACC)/XOPMO directs reporting via email, e-mail the report to
       AMCA4TR.PLT.Equip@us.af.mil.
22. Nuclear Shoring Kit Inventory, RCS: AMC-A4TC (A) 8002. This report is designated
emergency status code C2. Continue reporting during emergency conditions, normal
precedence. Submit data requirements in this category as prescribed, or as soon as possible after
submission of priority reports. Discontinue electronic reporting during MINIMIZE. See AMCI
24-101, Volume 11 for preparation and submission instructions.




                                            LEE K. LEVY II, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Director of Logistics
 38                                                          AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part I, Passenger Movement, Nov 2010
DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part II, Cargo Movement, Jun 2008
DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part III, Mobility, Jul 2011
DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part IV, Personal Property, Apr 2003
DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part V, Department of Defense Customs
and Borders Clearance Policies and Procedures, Jan 2011
DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part VI, Management and Control of
Intermodal Containers and System 463-L Equipment, Sep 2007
DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part VII, Human Remains Movement, Aug
2007
DOD 4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility, 1 Nov 1994
DODI 5154.06, Armed Services Medical Regulating, 20 Oct 2011
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program: Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 Jun 2000
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition-Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 Dec 2006
AFPD 24-1, Personnel Movement, 1 Sep 1995
AFPD 24-2, Preparation and Movement of Air Force Materiel, 27 Apr 2011
AMCI 24-101 Volume 4, Military Airlift - Air Transportation Systems Management, 21 Apr
2011
AMCI 24-101 Volume 9, Air Terminal Operations Center, 24 Nov 2009
AMCI 24-101, Volume 10, Military Airlift Fleet Services, 27 Apr 2009
AMCI 24-101 Volume 11, Cargo and Mail Policy, 7 Apr 2006
AMCI 24-101 Volume 14, Military Airlift Passenger Service, 2 Oct 2009
AMCI 24-101, Volume 22, Training Requirements for Aerial Port Operations, 22 Aug 2008
Prescribed Forms
AMC Form 56, Rehandled Workload, 1 Jun 1992
AMC Form 82, Monthly Station Traffic Handling Report, 1 Jul 1995
AMC Form 85, Aircraft Handled by Type, 1 Jun 1992
Adopted Forms
DD Form 361, Transportation Discrepancy Report (TDR), Jun 2006
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                               39


DD Form 365-4, Weight and Balance Clearance Form F – Transport/Tactical, Aug 1996
DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher, Dec 2003
DD Form 1299, Personal Property, Application for Shipment and/or Storage of, Sep 1998
DD Form 1384, Transportation Control and Movement Document, Oct 2000
DD Form 1387-2, Special Handling Data/Certification, Nov 2004
DD Form 2130, Load Plans, Sep 1998
DD Form 2278, Application for Do It Yourself Move and Counseling Checklist, Sep 1998
NAVCOMPT Form 2277, Voucher for Disbursement and/or Collection, Feb 1981
SF 135, Records Transmittal and Receipt, Jul 1985
AF Form 4080, Load/Sequence Breakdown Worksheet, 1 Jun 2001
AMC Form 33, Report of Frustrated Cargo, 1 Jun 1992
AMC Form 65, Aircraft Reserviced Workload, 1 Apr 1999
AMC Form 68, Aerial Port Movement Log, 1 Sep 1996
AMC Form 77, Aircraft Ground Handling Record, 1 Oct 1994
AMC Form 101, Green Sheet Request, 1 Jun 1992
AMC Form 108, Passenger Rehandled Workload, 1 Jun 1992
AMC Form 214, Security Cage Log and Inventory, 1 Jun 1992
AMC Form 229, Passenger Service Flight Folder, 1 Jun 1992
AMC Form 244, Fleet Service Arrival/Departure Worksheet, 1 Jun 1992
AMC Form 292, C-17A Special Loading Equipment Receipt, 7 Oct 2005
AMC Form 1003, Transportation Project Action Request, 1 Jun 1992
AMC Form 1015, HAZMAT Inspection and Acceptance Checklist, 2 Mar 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACA—Air Clearance Authority
A/C—Aircraft
AF—Air Force
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AMC—Air Mobility Command
 40                                                       AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


AMCI—Air Mobility Command Instruction
AME—Alternate Mission Equipment
AMS—Air Mobility Squadron
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air and Space Operations Center
APC—Aerial Port Code
APOD—Aerial Port of Debarkation
APOE—Aerial Port of Embarkation
APS—Aerial Port Squadron
ASIFICS—Airlift Service Industrial Fund Integrated Computer System
ATCMD—Advanced Transportation Control and Movement Document
ATGL—Air Transportable Galley/Lavatory
ATOC—Air Terminal Operations Center
AW—Air Wing
C2—Command and Control
CBP—Customs and Border Protection
CDS—Container Delivery System
CFP—Consolidate Flight Package
CIC—Customer Identification Code
CONUS—Continental United States
CoP—Community of Practice
CSB—Customer Service Branch
DCBS—Defense Enterprise Accounting and Management System Component Billing System
DEAMS—Defense Enterprise Accounting and Management System
DEP—Departure
DET—Detachment
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service
DGATES—Deployable Global Air Transportation Execution System
DOD—Department of Defense
DPC—Data Processing Center
DSN—Defense Switched Network
DTG—Date Time Group
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                          41


DTR—Defense Transportation Regulation
DTS—Defense Transportation System
EPP—Equivalent Pallet Positions
ETV—Electronic Transfer Vehicle
GART—Global Asset Reporting Tool
GATES—Global Air Transportation Execution System
GUM—GATES User’s Manual
HQ—Headquarters
ID—Identification
ITV—In-transit Visibility
LOA—Letter of Authorization
LTF—Long-Term Transportation File
LTL—Less Than a Truck Load
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
MFR—Memorandum for Record
MHE—Materials Handling Equipment
MICAP—Mission Capability
Mil—Military
MMHS—Mechanized Material Handling System
OIC—Officer in Charge
OL—Ordinary Leave
OL—Operating Location
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PAX—Passengers
PDF—Portable Document File
PHT—Port Hold Time
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
PLTS—Pallets
PSC—Passenger Service Center
PSP—Patient Support Pallet
QC—Quality Control
RCS—Reports Control Symbol
 42                                                         AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012


RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RFI—Request for Information
RGATES—Remote Global Air Transportation Execution System
RTDPC—Revenue Traffic Data Processing Center
SAAM—Special Assignment Airlift Mission
SAH—Special Account Handling
SAM—Special Airlift Mission
SATB—Simulated Air Training Bundles
SSAN—Social Security Account Number
ST—Short Tons
STF—Short-Term Transportation File
S/A—Space Available
S/R—Space Required
TACC—Tanker Airlift Control Center
TCMD—Transportation Control and Movement Document
TCN—Transportation Control Number
TDR—Transportation Discrepancy Report
TL—Truck Load
TMO—Transportation Management Office
TPPS—Third Party Payment System
TWCF—Transportation Working Capital Fund
VVIP—Very Very Important Parts

Terms
Automated:—Sites using GATES as their manifesting system.
BLUE BARK:—Active duty members or US citizen employees of the DOD and/or their
dependents traveling in conjunction with the death of the member, civilian employee, or
dependents of the above when returning to the CONUS following the death of the member,
employee, or dependent.
COIN ASSIST:—These passengers are dependents whose sponsors are missing in action,
prisoners of war, or as otherwise designated by DOD.
Defense Enterprise Accounting and Management System Component Billing System
(DCBS):—Replacement system for the Airlift Service Industrial Fund Integrated Computer
System (ASIFICS) and is the comprehensive financial information management system that
supports accounting, budgeting, and analysis functions necessary for the financial management
of the TWCF.
AMCI24-101V6 23 JULY 2012                                                                        43


GATES Station:—Any aerial port or air terminal that uses the GATES system as their
manifesting and tracking system for cargo and passengers.
Global Air Transportation Execution System (GATES): — This is the AMC manifesting and
tracking system used for cargo and passengers. When referenced in this instruction, the term
“GATES” refers to all forms of the system (RGATES/DGATES/Mini -GATES).
In-transit Visibility:—The real time ability to track and locate DOD cargo/mail, passengers,
and personal property from origin to consignee or destination during peace, contingencies, and
war.
Lifted:—The action required to send a manifest to DCBS once a mission has departed an
airfield.
Minimize:—A condition wherein normal message and telephone traffic is drastically reduced in
order that messages connected with an actual or simulated emergency shall not be delayed.
Non-automated:—Sites not using GATES as their manifesting system.
Opportune Airlift: —Opportune airlift occurs when a non-TWCF airlift mission (e.g., missions
generated from ANG & AFRC operations and maintenance training opportunities, Army & Navy
aircraft, etc.) moves TWCF cargo or passengers manifested at AMC aerial ports across an AMC
channel. The TWCF incurs no cost for this airlift and the movement is transparent to the airlift
customer, who pays the current channel tariff rate for the cargo or passengers moved, even
though AMC did not generate the airlift mission. For TWCF purposes, passenger and cargo
workload moved in the airlift system that is not manifested by AMC aerial ports are not
considered opportune airlift.
Thru-load:—Attached to a mission from a previous destination and continuing on to a down-
line station.
TWCF Aircraft:—Transport aircraft (military aircraft assigned to TWCF), commercial aircraft
with contracts to TWCF, and other AF command's aircraft tasked to fly TWCF missions. TWCF
aircraft are identified by the first three letters of the basic mission number prefix as outlined in
the general section to the AMC passenger and cargo schedule. Non-TWCF aircraft are all other
aircraft not reported as TWCF.
Un-reconciled Manifests:— Manifests reported by DCBS as missing and remain missing for
period greater than seven days.
