BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR MOBILITY COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                                  32-1043
                                                                                             29 JUNE 2001
                                                                           Certified current 18 March 2010
                                                                                          Civil Engineering

                                                                OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF
                                                                   AIRCRAFT ARRESTING SYSTEMS

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AMC/CEOI                                                               Certified by: HQ AMC/CEO
     (SMSgt Steven G. Karsten)                                                 (Lt Col Timothy P. Gaffney)
                                                                                                    Pages: 5
                                                                                             Distribution: F

This instruction establishes uniform standards, procedures and terminology for the operation and mainte-
nance of Aircraft Arresting Systems (AAS) within Air Mobility Command (AMC). It is applicable to all
AMC elements having maintenance or operational responsibility for AAS on AMC bases including active
duty military, Department of Defense or contracted civilian employees. Any and all requirements/respon-
sibilities set forth in this instruction are in addition to or highlight the operational and maintenance guid-
ance set forth in applicable AAS Technical Orders (TO), and management criteria/responsibilities set
forth in Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-1043 Managing Aircraft Arresting Systems.
NOTE: Due to the relocation of the San Antonio Air Logistics Center from Kelly AFB, Texas to Robins
AFB, Georgia, the address for submittal of Aircraft Arrestment Reports in accordance with AFI 32-1043
has changed. The new address is as follows:

      WR-ALC/LESGF
      ATTN: Mr. Mark Hardin
      295 Byron St.
      Robbins AFB, GA 31098-1611

**WARNING** UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES WILL THE AAS CABLE BE LEFT ON THE
ACTIVE RUNWAY WITHOUT BEING CONNECTED TO THE PURCHASE TAPE CONNEC-
TOR ON BOTH SIDES OF THE RUNWAY AND CERTIFIED IN THE BATTERY POSITION!
THIS IS A SERIOUS SAFETY HAZARD, WHICH COULD RESULT IN EXTENSIVE AIR-
CRAFT DAMAGE, PERSONAL INJURY OR DEATH.
2                                                                       AMCI32-1043 29 JUNE 2001


1. Common AAS Terminology: The following terms are commonly associated with AAS operations,
and should be understood and used by all parties engaged in AAS activities to include but not limited to:
Civil Engineers, Airfield Operations, and Air Traffic Control personnel. This list is not intended to be
all-inclusive, but should provide a basis for written and radio communications, developing instructions,
procedures, and training plans related to AAS operations to ensure safe effective AAS support on AMC
bases.
    1.1. Install- Indicates a request to connect the AAS cable across the active runway, secure it to the
    purchase tape connector on both sides of the runway, and place in the battery position.
    1.2. Battery Position- Indicates that the AAS cable is connected and the system is certified for all
    engagement operations.
    1.3. Barrier Certification- Indicates the AAS has been inspected by a task qualified 3E052/Power
    Production technician, and is certified for all engagement operations.
    1.4. Removal- Indicates a request to disconnect the AAS cable from the purchase tape connector, and
    remove it off of, and a safe distance to the side of, the active runway.
    1.5. Out of Service- Indicates the AAS is not available for engagement operations.
    1.6. In Flight Emergency (IFE)- Indicates an inbound/outbound aircraft emergency with a high
    probability of AAS use.
    1.7. AAS Location Identification- A two-part description identifying the location of an AAS by the
    runway designation number, and as either the approach or departure end. For example: The runway 36
    approach end AAS. Note: Designation of the active runway will change with prevailing winds and
    other factors. AAS personnel should confirm AAS location identification with flying operations per-
    sonnel to ensure proper AAS configuration to meet mission requirements.

2. General Responsibilities: It is the responsibility of all personnel engaged in AAS activities at all
AMC bases to ensure full implementation and effective use of this instruction. Specific responsibilities
are covered in paragraphs 2.1. through 2.4.
    2.1. The Wing Commander:
       2.1.1. Ensures local procedures related to AAS operations are exercised as part of the local wing
       exercise scenarios, to evaluate adequacy of training programs and unit readiness to respond to
       AAS emergencies. NOTE: Exercise scenarios should involve all personnel with AAS respon-
       sibilities (i.e. Power Production/Barrier Maintenance, Fire Protection Element, Base Opera-
       tions, and Air Traffic Control) to adequately demonstrate response, communication, and
       operations capability before, during and after an aircraft IFE involving the AAS.
    2.2. Base Civil Engineer:
       2.2.1. Ensures local compliance with AAS management criteria/responsibilities set forth in
       AFI-32-1043 (Managing Aircraft Arresting Systems) and this instruction.
       2.2.2. Ensures/approves procedures, instructions, and training plans related to AAS operations are
       developed in writing to delineate responsibilities between Civil Engineer work centers (i.e. Power
       Production and Fire Protection) during and after normal duty hours, and to provide standardized
       training for non-Power Production personnel engaged in AAS operations.
AMCI32-1043 29 JUNE 2001                                                                               3


     2.2.3. Designates local Power Production technician(s) or civilian equivalent in writing to annu-
     ally certify assigned personnel to perform daily inspections on AAS via AF Form 483 Certificate
     of Competency.
     2.2.4. Reviews at least annually all Host Tenant Support Agreements/Memorandums of Agree-
     ment relating to AAS support requirements to ensure validity, ensure required support capability,
     and recommend modifications as required.
  2.3. Power Production/Barrier Maintenance Section:
     2.3.1. Performs inspection, maintenance, certification and repair of all assigned AAS in compli-
     ance with the frequency and specifications of governing Technical Orders for the AAS assigned to
     the base.
     2.3.2. Maintains an accurate historical log/record in the work center of all maintenance and
     inspection activities for each AAS assigned. Locally developed automated inspection forms/logs
     are authorized.
     2.3.3. The Power Production NCOIC or civilian equivalent ensures applicable AAS technical
     orders and work cards, Air Force Instructions, MAJCOM and local instructions, and AFOSH
     Standards are maintained in the work center and are readily available for all personnel engaged in
     AAS activities, and that all personnel engaged in AAS activities are trained in their use and con-
     tent.
     2.3.4. The Power Production NCOIC or civilian equivalent ensures compliance with all applica-
     ble Technical Orders, Air Force and MAJCOM instructions, and approved local procedures or
     instructions by all personnel engaged in AAS operations or maintenance activities at the assigned
     base.
     2.3.5. The Power Production NCOIC or civilian equivalent ensures that all Power Production per-
     sonnel engaged in AAS activities are task certified to the appropriate task level in accordance with
     the Power Production Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) for the AAS assigned to
     the base.
     2.3.6. The Power Production NCOIC or civilian equivalent ensures that all personnel engaged in
     daily AAS inspection activities are certified on AF Form 483 Certificate of Competency on an
     annual basis. The AF Form 483 should be maintained in the individual’s AF Form 623 (Record of
     Training) for safekeeping.
     2.3.7. The Power Production NCOIC or civilian equivalent ensures that a Report of Aircraft
     Arrestment is sent to HQ AMC/CEOI AAS Manager immediately following AAS contact.
     NOTE: This is in addition to the report requirement in AFI 32-1043. Electronic submittals are
     authorized.
     2.3.8. The Power Production NCOIC or civilian equivalent develops and implements local proce-
     dures and instructions in writing to clearly delineate AAS operations responsibilities during and
     after normal duty hours between Civil Engineer work centers (i.e. Power Production and Fire Pro-
     tection). A signed/approved copy is maintained in the Power Production Section records and must
     be forwarded to HQ AMC/CEOI AAS Manager. Electronic submittals are authorized. NOTE:
     Only task qualified 3E052 technicians can certify an AAS back in service after an arrestment.
4                                                                         AMCI32-1043 29 JUNE 2001


       2.3.9. The Power Production NCOIC or civilian equivalent develops and implements a standard-
       ized Plan of Instruction and Lesson Plan to provide recurring training on assigned AAS to
       non-power production personnel.
       2.3.10. The Power Production NCOIC or civilian equivalent schedules and provides training for
       non-power production personnel on a quarterly basis as a minimum, or as required to maintain
       sufficient numbers of trained personnel to meet local mission requirements. The Power Production
       Section maintains an accurate record of each training class for all non-Power Production person-
       nel trained in AAS operations at the assigned base to include: the training date, name and rank/
       grade of attendees, and the instructors name and rank/grade. The Power Production Section will
       provide a copy to the trainee’s duty section for their records.
       2.3.11. The Power Production NCOIC or civilian equivalent maintains a “Special Level” type
       Supply Account to ensure certain critical replacement items are locally available to prevent
       extended out of service time of assigned AAS due to procurement time. These items may include
       but are not limited to: purchase-tapes, purchase-tape connectors, purchase-tape connector covers,
       pendants, special valves and fittings, brake sets or brake kits, and replacement bundles for the Tex-
       tile type AAS.
    2.4. Fire Protection Element:
       2.4.1. The Fire Protection Element personnel will assist Power Production/Barrier Maintenance
       Section during and after normal duty hours as specified in locally approved instructions/ proce-
       dures.
NOTE: Only task qualified 3E052 technicians can certify an AAS back in service after an arrestment.
       2.4.2. The Fire Protection Element training supervisor will request training through appropriate
       Civil Engineer channels on a quarterly basis as a minimum, or as required to maintain sufficient
       numbers of trained personnel to meet local mission requirements.
       2.4.3. The Fire Protection Element training supervisor will maintain an accurate record of each
       AAS operations training class to include: the training date, name and rank/grade of attendees, and
       the instructors name and rank/grade. NOTE: The Power Production Section will provide a record
       of training following each training session.

3. Maintenance actions and maintenance support:
    3.1. Only CFETP task qualified 3E0X2/Power Production or civilian equivalent personnel are autho-
    rized to perform maintenance actions on AAS.
    3.2. Maintenance actions must be accomplished as outlined in applicable AAS Technical Orders. Any
    deviation or waiver request must be coordinated through the HQ AMC/CEOI AAS Manager.
    3.3. AAS technical assistance is available by contacting the HQ AMC/CEOI AAS Manager.
    3.4. Repair action deemed beyond local capability can be supported by a Civil Engineer Maintenance
    Inspection and Repair Team (CEMIRT) as necessary. Contact the HQ AMC/CEOI AAS Manager for
    support coordination.
AMCI32-1043 29 JUNE 2001                                                   5



HQ AMC/CEOI AAS Manager, Contact Information:


HQ AMC/CEOI
ATTN: Aircraft Arresting Systems Manager
507 Symington Drive
Scott AFB, IL 62225-5022



                                           L. DEAN FOX, Brig Gen, USAF
                                           Director of Civil Engineering
