BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR MOBILITY COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                         90-104

                                                                               12 JANUARY 2010

                                                                             Special Management

                                                          HQ AMC CONTINUOUS PROCESS
                                                        IMPROVEMENT IMPLEMENTATION
                                                                        PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AMC/CVO                                                       Certified by: HQ AMC/CVO
                                                                           (Col Mark. A. McLean)
                                                                                        Pages: 15


This instruction implements DoD Directive 5010.42, DoD-wide Continuous Process
Improvement (CPI)/Lean Six Sigma (LSS) Program, DoD Instruction 5010.43 Implementation
and Management of the DoD-Wide Continuous Process Improvement/Lean Six Sigma (CPI/LSS)
Program, and Headquarters Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century (AFSO21)
Playbook, May 2008. This publication defines staff responsibility for coordinating continuous
process improvement strategy, initiative validation and integration. Additionally, it describes the
concept, responsibility, organization, and functions of the Headquarters (HQ) Air Mobility
Command (AMC) governance of AFSO21 initiatives through the Council of Deputies and the
Executive Council. This document establishes the procedures for validating, prioritizing and
adjudicating process improvement initiatives. It applies only to HQ AMC staff and subordinate
units. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command and Air National Guard
as those agencies have their own processes. This publication does not replace the Innovative
Development through Employee Awareness (IDEA) program, but rather establishes a
complementary and parallel procedure to staff initiatives that do not meet IDEA program
eligibility. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. This publication may be supplemented at
any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication.
2                                                               AMCI90-104 12 JANUARY 2010



                                             Chapter 1

       AIR MOBILITY COMMAND CONTINUOUS PROCESS IMPROVEMENT

1.1. Concept. Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century (AFSO21) is the name given to
a methodology designed to standardize, focus and accelerate continuous process improvement
efforts across the Air Force. These improvements, processes and methods are guided by the Air
Force AFSO21 Playbook. They are a compilation of the recommended tools, techniques,
procedures and standards used in formal continuous process improvement efforts. The Playbook
prescribed method for validating and approving solutions between various echelons of command
leaves it to the chain of command to determine and implement. This instruction prescribes the
methodology AMC will use to determine the appropriate scope of implementation within this
command. Headquarters Air Force (HAF) processes and checklists will be used to validate
initiatives for Service-wide implementation.
1.2. Commander’s Intent. The commander recognizes the benefits of fostering a culture of
innovative Airmen as well as the synergistic and focusing effects of succinct strategy alignment
and deployment. With encouragement and empowerment, Airmen with relevant subject matter
expertise will make improvements to their mission areas and subsequently achieve the desired
effects. Through the Strategy Alignment and Deployment (SA&D) process, the command will
endeavor to focus improvement efforts on areas that underperform or represent a significant
opportunity for improvement. The AMC commander fully supports all AFSO21 desired effects:
    1.2.1. Increase the productivity of our most valued resource: people
    1.2.2. Achieve significant increases in critical asset availability rates
    1.2.3. Improve response time and decision making agility
    1.2.4. Sustain safe and reliable operations
    1.2.5. Improve energy efficiency
1.3. Continuous Process Improvement. Process improvement will be accomplished by
fundamentally changing the culture of AMC so that all Airmen understand their individual role
in improving their daily processes and eliminating actions that do not add value to mission
accomplishment; by instilling a mindset of continuous process improvement and problem
solving across the USAF workforce; and, finally, by ensuring all Airmen develop the ability to
effect change, and continuously learn new ways to improve processes in their daily activities in
order to save resources and eliminate waste.
1.4. Guiding Principles. AMC will organize and conduct continuous process improvement
procedures in accordance with the following principles.
    1.4.1. AFSO21 is not a stand-alone program. Process improvement is not something left to
    AFSO21 practitioners to complete. Instead, AFSO21 provides the tools, training, standards
    and guidance necessary for Air Force functional experts to manage continuous process
    improvement. Wherever possible, normal staffing processes should be used.
    1.4.2. Strategic Alignment and Deployment (SA&D) is the process of ensuring each echelon
    of command is in alignment with the strategy of the higher headquarters. SA&D will provide
AMCI90-104 12 JANUARY 2010                                                                     3


  guidance, priority, ownership, responsibility, and the measures of success (metrics) for
  improvement efforts. Some improvement efforts may come from outside the prescribed
  SA&D improvement priorities. AMC senior leadership will determine proper priority for
  any work outside the SA&D or adjust SA&D to include emerging subject areas.
  1.4.3. Solutions come from multiple sources. Rapid dissemination of these solutions
  facilitates timely and effective decision making, reduces duplication of effort, and leverages
  the progress of one initiative to further develop another initiative to generate savings across
  the Air Force in a timely fashion.
  1.4.4. AMC is comprised of numerous unique organizations. One solution will not
  necessarily work for all and standards may not be practical across the command. However,
  wherever commonality exists, processes should be standardized in accordance with best
  practices to the maximum extent possible.
  1.4.5. Because of the differences in organizations and various sources of solutions, second
  and third order effects must be considered prior to adopting implementation of innovative
  processes and initiatives. The implementation methodology in this instruction will
  adequately allow for these considerations to take place in a timely, methodical and deliberate
  manner.
4                                                          AMCI90-104 12 JANUARY 2010


                                         Chapter 2

                      STRATEGY ALIGNMENT & DEPLOYMENT

2.1. Strategy Alignment & Deployment. The development and implementation of today’s
improvement efforts must be synchronized with the strategy for the future. This document
outlines the methodology for ensuring SA&D of continuous process improvement efforts begins
at the highest levels. MAJCOM development and implementation of SA&D will follow bi-
annual updates of National Security Strategy/National Defense Strategy and Air Force Strategic
Plans. AMC will produce a long-term, core function-oriented grand strategy called the Air
Mobility Master Plan (AMMP) specifying near-, mid- and long-term capabilities required for the
next 30 years. A bi-annual AMC strategy alignment and deployment effort will focus on one to
three year objectives for improvement. Programming, planning and budget execution, long-term
grand strategy, and AMC SA&D must be synchronized to achieve desired effects.


Figure 2.1. Recommended Process for Development of Strategy Alignment & Deployment.




2.2. Improvement Priority Champions: Improvement priorities will be championed by OPRs
as designated during development of SA&D. Those OPRs are encouraged to make the initiative
a part of the normal work routine and oversight. AMC staff meetings will be used to update key
metrics and progress. AMC/CVO will post a rotating briefing schedule as required to monitor
progress. The OPR (Numbered Air Force, Director) will brief the AMC-staff on trends in the
AMCI90-104 12 JANUARY 2010                                                                    5


key performance indicators, and progress toward initiatives. CVO will monitor, via email
alerting, the Continuous Process Improvement Management Tool (CPI-MT) for newly
completed initiatives and forward to the appropriate improvement priority champion for
consideration. AMC/CVO, in conjunction with 18 AF, will publish an SA&D plan and
coordinate wing support as appropriate. Each echelon should review the SA&D process at least
bi-annually, normally in conjunction with Air Force strategy revisions, and update as necessary.
6                                                               AMCI90-104 12 JANUARY 2010


                                             Chapter 3

           DEVELOPING AND INTEGRATING PROCESS IMPROVEMENTS

3.1. Improvements, Innovations and Initiative Integration Process. AMC will follow this
method for generating, validating and prioritizing process improvements/initiatives to achieve
effects beyond the local level. This process will ensure due diligence is given to initiatives from
Airmen in the field, process improvement events, or other sources. It does not replace the AF
IDEA program. Instead it compliments the program with a parallel coordination process that
will ensure ideas determined to be good, but not meeting IDEA eligibility criteria, get redirected
through the AFSO21 channels. The methodology for submitting, validating, and implementing
initiatives will be accomplished via the following standard process. The term ―initiative‖ is used
throughout this publication to describe any proven idea, innovation, initiative, solution or process
improvement.
3.2. Sources of Initiatives. Each of these sources of initiatives has unique characteristics and
requires slight modification in the vetting process to ensure all required validation actions are
completed.
    3.2.1. Field units – squadrons, detachments, groups, etc.
    3.2.2. AMC Directorates – functional area experts, divisions and directors.
    3.2.3. Air Staff and other MAJCOMs – initiatives generated by the Air Staff, MAJCOMs,
    ANG, etc.
    3.2.4. Industry – contractors, tradeshows, conventions, site visits, other military
    organizations, etc.
3.3. Phases of Integration. The generation, validation, and implementation of initiatives occur
in four distinct tiers or phases.
    3.3.1. Tier I is wing (or unit) development: This tier of integration occurs at the wing level
    and consists of pre-event coordination with functional area experts for guidance and
    crosstell, conducting improvements, and submitting them for higher level implementation.
    3.3.2. Tier II is the AMC staff functional ―quick look‖ integration feasibility and
    implementation staff work required. Some initiatives may result in immediate approval or
    disapproval based on existing policy, while others will require long term methodical staff
    work.
    3.3.3. Tier III is AMC staff cross-functional coordination that requires completing a business
    case analysis with the initiative champion, functional area experts and staff.
    3.3.4. Tier IV is implementation of the initiative across multiple wings and includes policy,
    funding, manpower, and roll-out as well as possible submission to Air Force for further
    integration opportunities.
    3.3.5. Initiative participants shall consider potential risk mitigation strategies in all Tiers to
    include formal test and evaluation and System/Logistic Center analysis.
3.4. Tier 1. Wing (or unit) develops the initiative, communicates initiatives with the functional
area expert and then forwards up the chain for possible implementation across the command or
AMCI90-104 12 JANUARY 2010                                                                       7


even across the Air Force or DoD. Local procedures for AFSO21 ideas that entail funding
initiatives will require coordination with the installation comptroller.
   3.4.1. Initiative Champion (Subject Matter Expert or Improvement Team): Discusses
   problem or performance gap and proposed solutions with HQ AMC staff functional area
   experts. Prior to conducting any improvement events, initiative champions will determine if
   there are other similar solutions fielded or in development. Directorates will ensure positive,
   timely communications with initiative champions in order to encourage creativity and
   innovation. Functional area experts may consider holding periodic telecons, video telecons
   or other meetings to facilitate dialog. This also gives the AMC staff a chance to provide
   guidance, state expectations and concerns, inform other stakeholders, or even attend project
   working group meetings. Additionally, functional area experts should consider designating
   units with best practices as the ―Center of Excellence‖ or ―Model Cell‖ for that particular
   subject and leverage expertise at that unit to help facilitate dialog on process improvement
   efforts at other similar units.
   3.4.2. For initiatives valid only for the local area, or those deemed by wing leadership as
   immaterial beyond the present implementation level, the initiative should be posted on CPI-
   MT or submitted to the wing IDEA program manager as a reference for other DoD agencies
   conducting similar projects.
      3.4.2.1. Initiatives falling within commander or directorate purview may be implemented
      immediately and the initiative shared as a potential AF Best Practice for others to adopt
      IAW AFH 38-210.

Figure 3.1. AMC Initiative Validation and Implementation Process.




   3.4.3. Initiatives with potential for replication at other wings, or initiatives requiring staff
   review may be submitted through the wing AFSO21 office with as much supporting
8                                                              AMCI90-104 12 JANUARY 2010


    information as possible. The wing AFSO21 office will ensure sufficient information is
    available for staff consideration and that the initiative has wing leadership endorsement prior
    to engagement at the AMC staff level. Attachment of charters, outbriefs and information in
    the Air Force 8-step problem solving process outline is recommended, but not required. As a
    minimum, submissions must identify originator point of contact, subject, a description of the
    as-is/to-be process, and expected impact. Figure 3.1 outlines this process, and subsequent
    paragraphs explain the methodology.
    3.4.4. To foster the innovative spirit of Airmen and ensure innovation is not stifled with
    complex submission requirements, initiatives/ideas may be submitted through the AF IDEA
    Program. Wing IDEA program managers will determine eligibility of the submission IAW
    AFI 38-401. For actionable ideas that are ineligible or disapproved in the IDEA program,
    wing IDEA program managers will forward the idea to their wing AFSO21 counterparts for
    review and possible action as outlined in paragraph 3.4.3 In this manner, all actionable
    ideas generated by field units will be afforded an avenue to obtain wing endorsement and
    submission to the AMC staff for assessment.
3.5. Tier II. AMC staff functional area experts will conduct a 10-day ―quick look‖ initial staff
assessment of integration feasibility and implementation as described in the steps below.
    3.5.1. AMC/CVO will review initiatives submitted from any of the sources in paragraph
    3.2 AMC/CVO will confirm the minimum required information is available, and then enter
    the initiative into the Task Management Tool (TMT) with the appropriate
    functional/directorate as OPR, and any supporting staff as Office of Coordinating
    Responsibility (OCR).
       3.5.1.1. 18 AF coordination: 18 AF will be simultaneously copied on wing submissions
       to the Directorates/ functional area experts during the quick look tier and may elect to
       provide further direction regarding implementation of the initiative.
    3.5.2. The OPR will normally have 10-business days to conduct initial assessment of
    initiative. The goal in Tier II is to ―triage‖ the initiative to determine one of three outcomes:
       3.5.2.1. The initiative is suitable for immediate implementation. In this event, the
       initiative is considered feasible and within the authority of the functional area
       experts/directorate to implement. Implementation may range from sharing the good
       initiative, to labeling as an AF Best Practice, or adoption and implementation of the
       initiative may be directed via message or an update to command instructions. The
       directorate will perform the necessary staff actions required to implement the initiative.
       AMC/CVO will post the outcome on the Innovation Status Tracker, update status with
       the submitting agency and ensure entry into the Continuous Process Improvement
       Management Tool (CPI-MT) for AF or DoD use.
       3.5.2.2. The initiative is not feasible and a brief explanation is provided to inform the
       submitter as to why the initiative will not work. The OPR response will list any current
       conditions that preclude acceptance so that the initiative champion can re-submit
       when/should those conditions change. AMC/CVO will post the results to the Innovation
       Status Tracker, close the TMT tasker and ensure the submitting agency is notified.
       3.5.2.3. The initiative is complex and requires further staff study and coordination. The
       OPR will coordinate a suspense date for further review with AMC/CVO who will post
AMCI90-104 12 JANUARY 2010                                                                       9


      that date in the Innovation Status Tracker. The suspense should normally be within 90
      days. AMC/CVO will notify the submitting agency of the status of their initiative.
      Submitting agencies may monitor staff progress via the Innovation Status Tracker on
      SharePoint, the AMC AFSO21 Community of Practice (CoP) website or by contacting
      AMC/CVO.
   3.5.3. AMC/CVO will maintain the Innovation Status Tracker and post on HQ AMC/CVO
   AFSO21 CoP and SharePoint for visibility throughout the command. The Council of
   Deputies will normally convene monthly, physically or virtually, to review progress and
   priorities of initiatives on the Innovation Status Tracker. Initiatives reaching closure will be
   presented periodically to AMC staff for situational awareness and the submitter will be
   notified of the status by CVO. Long-term initiatives on the tracker will be briefed on a
   quarterly or as-required basis to the Executive Council or at appropriate AMC staff meetings
   for leadership awareness and direction.
3.6. Tier III. AMC staff cross-functional coordination will be conducted to ensure thorough
review and analysis prior to changing policy or funding initiatives that affect multiple
directorates or functional areas.
   3.6.1. For initiatives that require resources, command policy changes, or cross-functional
   implementation, the OPR will host a physical or virtual team working group comprised of the
   initiative champion, the functional area experts, and OCRs as required to fully coordinate
   staff actions and/or develop a business case analysis (BCA). Directorates are encouraged to
   use trained AFSO21 personnel to facilitate working groups or may request facilitation from
   AMC/CVO. Normal staff package coordination will be used as required per paragraph
   3.6.4.
   3.6.2. The AFSO21 Financial Management (FM) Template will be used to document
   resource requirements unless special programs direct a specific alternative format.
   AMC/FM, A1, JA and AMC/CVO will provide consultation as required and ensure proper
   completion of the BCA and templates.
   3.6.3. AMC/CVO, AMC/FM and AMC/A1M will review packages for eligibility for special
   funding from SAF/USM, AF Productivity Enhancing Capital Investment (PECI), or other
   applicable programs.
   3.6.4. The BCA will then be coordinated through the appropriate two digit staff for approval.
   The AMC Council of Deputies may be convened as required to adjudicate comments,
   analyze complex tradeoffs, prioritize risks and benefits, and make recommendations to the
   AMC Executive Council for decision and approval.
   3.6.5. AMC/FM will incorporate AFSO21 initiatives into the AMC Group/Budget
   (AMCG/B) process as appropriate.
3.7. Tier IV. Implementation and integration actions are completed by the OPR to include
coordination across Air Force MAJCOMs as required.
   3.7.1. Once approved, the initiative and BCA will be taken for action by the OPR as
   required. The OPR will monitor and manage the implementation plan. AMC/A1 will
   coordinate manpower adjustments if required. AMC/A5/8 will include adjustments in POM,
10                                                            AMCI90-104 12 JANUARY 2010


     Air Mobility Master Plan (AMMP), strategy and doctrine as required. AMC/CVO will
     ensure documentation is entered into the CPI-MT for DoD-wide reference.
     3.7.2. For those BCAs and initiatives that cannot be resolved at the AMC level, have
     replication potential across the Air Force or require submission to the Air Force Council, the
     HAF integration checklists will be completed by the OPR with assistance from AMC/CVO.
     3.7.3. AMC/CVO and AMC/CCX will assist the OPR with development and scheduling of
     briefings for Corona or for the Air Force Council, if required.
AMCI90-104 12 JANUARY 2010                                                                      11


                                           Chapter 4

                                       GOVERNANCE

4.1. AMC Council of Deputies. The AMC Council of Deputies is a deliberative, advisory
body. It does not possess power of decision or executive authority, but functions as an impartial
group that reviews, evaluates, and recommends courses of action that serve the best interests of
the Air Force and HQ AMC rather than the immediate or particular interest of a single staff
directorate or agency.
   4.1.1. Organization. The HQ AMC Council of Deputies is a working group. The group is
   comprised of AMC staff deputies, special staff deputies, USAFEC/CV and 18 AF/CV. The
   board is designed to:
       4.1.1.1. Bring the collective judgment and experience of the AMC staff and special staff
       deputies to bear upon complex and challenging process improvement initiatives.
       4.1.1.2. Provide the AMCG/B with information and recommendations on initiative
       financial requirements, prioritization of initiatives, and considerations regarding offsets.
       4.1.1.3. Provide the Commander, Vice Commander, and/or the HQ AMC Executive
       Council with information, recommendations, and prioritization of process improvement
       initiatives.
       4.1.1.4. Prepare, coordinate and review SA&D and other AFSO21 processes in
       preparation for Executive Council meetings and decisions.
   4.1.2. The AMC/CVO calls meetings or arranges electronic coordination as necessary. Two-
   thirds of the applicable members comprise a quorum for any meeting. AMC/CVO
   consolidates and presents staff issues to the board for adjudication, prioritization and overall
   recommendation. Recommendations will be based on a majority vote of the board.
   However, dissenting opinions will be part of the presentation to the Executive Council when
   decision briefs are required.
4.2. AMC Executive Council. The AMC Executive Council is an action body chaired by the
AMC/CC or CV. The council reviews decision briefs and recommendations from the Council
of Deputies, develops Strategy Alignment and Deployment, and guides command wide
improvement efforts and policy. 4.2.1.Organization. The HQ AMC Executive Council is
comprised of AMC staff directors, special staff, USAFEC/CC and 18 AF/CC. The council is
designed to:
       4.2.1.1. Bring the collective judgment and experience of the AMC staff and special staff
       to bear upon complex and challenging process improvement initiatives.
       4.2.1.2. Function as the AMC Council for FM decisions analyzing information and
       recommendations on initiative financial requirements, prioritization of initiatives, and
       considerations regarding offsets.
       4.2.1.3. Provide the Commander and Vice Commander with                         information,
       recommendations, and prioritization of process improvement initiatives.
12                                                             AMCI90-104 12 JANUARY 2010


        4.2.1.4. Prepare, coordinate, review and approve SA&D and other AFSO21 processes.
        The Council provides oversight of Command-wide AFSO21 CPI performance.
        4.2.1.5. Align organizational activities and mission performance in accordance with
        Command strategic alignment and deployment efforts.
        4.2.1.6. Strive to support all Airmen by removing barriers that inhibit improved mission
        effectiveness and efficiency.
     4.2.2. The AMC/CVO calls meetings or arranges electronic coordination as necessary.
     AMC staff directors or designated alternates comprise a quorum for any meeting.
     AMC/CVO consolidates and presents staff issues to the council for adjudication,
     prioritization and overall recommendation to the AMC/CC or CV.
4.3. HQ AMC/CVO. The AMC AFSO21 office will provide continuous process improvement
guidance to the field, counsel AMC staff on strategy and initiatives, and serve as a point of
contact for HAF AFSO21 counterparts. The office will perform the following functions:
     4.3.1. Plan and execute AMC Executive Council meetings and as necessary to review or
     make decisions on command strategy or AFSO21 activities.
     4.3.2. Lead and manage AFSO21 and the implementation of AFSO21 initiatives across the
     command along with development, execution, and management of command strategy.
     4.3.3. Recommend and oversee command-wide change management activities associated
     with AFSO21, and all improvement initiatives.
     4.3.4. Provide AFSO21 expertise to the AMC Commander, HQ staff, AMC corporate
     structure, and field organizations. Develop and publish policy governing the command
     AFSO21 program. Establish the framework, policy, procedures, and advocacy for resources
     necessary to train, organize, and equip AFSO21-certified staff within AMC.
     4.3.5. Implement AF standards for AFSO21 facilitator training and for certification in
     AFSO21 tools, and identify approved training sources.
     4.3.6. Lead command-wide integration of all AFSO21 initiatives.                 Facilitate rapid
     dissemination of wing-level improvements across the command in order to maximize
     efficiencies and establish standard processes. Maintain a portfolio of command-wide
     initiatives, make those initiatives visible across the command, initiate policy changes through
     the appropriate HQ AMC functional directorate to codify command-wide improvements
     and/or command standard processes, and lead cross-command implementation of those
     improvements or standard processes.
     4.3.7. Review initiatives conducted by other MAJCOMs to select those with potential
     application within AMC. Maintain a process to push information regarding selected
     initiatives to AMC staff and wings.
     4.3.8. Lead selected enterprise-level AFSO21 events. Provide qualified facilitators to
     address enterprise improvement opportunities identified by the AMC Commander or tied to
     AFSO21 initiatives.
     4.3.9. Issue to AMC field units AFSO21 Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures as required to
     provide command-wide direction that compliments, supplements, clarifies, or adds to this
     instruction.
AMCI90-104 12 JANUARY 2010                                                          13


  4.3.10. Maintain open communication channels and conduct regular meetings with AFSO21
  and strategy development points of contact across the command along with selected HQ
  AMC staff.
  4.3.11. Develop and oversee execution of the command AFSO21 cultural assessment
  process to determine the overall CPI maturity level of HQ AMC and the command as a
  whole.




                                       VERN M. FINDLEY II, Lt Gen, USAF
                                       Vice Commander, Air Mobility Command
14                                                          AMCI90-104 12 JANUARY 2010


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DOD Directive, 5010.42, DoD-Wide Continuous Process Improvement (CPI)/Lean Six Sigma
(LSS) Program May 15, 2008; https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/AFP40/d/1075924496/Files/editorial/DOD%20Instruction%20501042p%2015May
2008.pdf?channelPageId=-1898914&programId=1241481
DoD Instruction 5010.43 Implementation and Management of the DoD-Wide Continuous
Process Improvement/Lean Six Sigma (CPI/LSS) Program, 17 July 2009;
https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/Database/Staging/2994958/DODI_CPI_5010-
43_July_17_2009.pdf
DoD Continuous Process Improvement (CPI) Transformation Guidebook, July 2008, J.D.
Sicilia, Director, DoD CPI/LSS Program Office; https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/AFP40/d/1075924496/Files/editorial/CPI_Guidebook_July_2008_OSD_FINAL.pd
f?channelPageId=-1898914&programId=1241481
AFI 38-301, Productivity Enhancing Capital Investment Program, 24 Mar 2006; http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFI38-301.pdf
AFI 38-401, The Air Force Innovative Development Through Employee Awareness (IDEA)
Program, 21 Nov 2007; http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFI38-401.pdf
AFH 38-210, Air Force Best Practices Clearinghouse, 21 Apr 2001, http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFH38-210.pdf
Air Force Operations for the 21st Century Playbook, Oct 2007, Office of the Secretary of the Air
Force, Smart Operations (SAF/SO). https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/AFP40/d/1075924496/Files/About%20AFSO21/Background_Overview/AFSO21_
Playbook_2.0_Oct_2007.pdf
AMC HOI 65-101, HQ AMC Financial Management Procedures, 21 Apr 06
https://private.amc.af.mil/pubs/pubhome2.htm#Operating_Instructions.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFSO21—Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMMP—Air Mobility Master Plan
AMCG/B—Air Mobility Command Group/Budget (formerly Budget Advisory Board)
BCA—Business Case Analysis
CoD—Council of Deputies
CoP—Community of Practice
CPI—Continuous Process Improvement
CPIMT—Continuous Process Improvement-Management Tool
AMCI90-104 12 JANUARY 2010                                       15


D&DC—Deployment and Distribution Chain
EC—Executive Council
FM—Financial Management (HQ AMC Comptroller)
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IDEA—Innovative Development through Employee Awareness Program
LSS—Lean Six Sigma
OCR—Office of Coordinating Responsibility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PECI—Productivity Enhancing Capital Investment Program
POC—Point of Contact
RIE—Rapid Improvement Event
SIPOC—Supplier, Inputs, Processes, Outputs, and Customers
SWOT—Strengths, weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats
SA&D—Strategy Alignment & Deployment
TTP—Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
US—United States
USAFEC—Unites States Air Force Expeditionary Center
