BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                          INSTRUCTION 36-2805
                                                                                     29 OCTOBER 2007
                                                                       Certified Current 10 October 2012
                                                                                               Personnel

                                                                        SAFETY AWARDS PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil (will convert to
                       www.af.mil/e-publishing on AF Link).
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AMC/SEE                                       Certified by: HQ AMC/SEE (Mr. David Lanctot)
Supersedes AMCI36-2805, 1 July 2004                                                     Pages: 17

This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, to establish and instruct
the Safety Awards Program as a major element of the Air Mobility Command (AMC) Mishap Prevention
Program. The AMC Director of Safety administers the program. This publication requires collection and
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Authority to collect and maintain the
records prescribed here is 44 U.S.C. 2904, 3102, 3301. Ensure that all records created as a result of pro-
cesses prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to
AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command. This instruction applies to all active duty AMC activities and
AMC-gained Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. HQ AMC/SE
will approve supplements to this instruction.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision generally updates the text; award criteria and nomination formats for AMC-level safety
awards. It restructures the AMC Distinguished Ground Safety Award for wings, Air Mobility Operations
Groups (AMOG) and Air Mobility Support Squadrons (AMSSs) to meet the organization structure of
AMC. The restructure of the 615 and 621 AMOGs into Contingency Response Wings necessitate change
to the award criteria to ensure units were appropriately measured for safety awards. It aligns the Catego-
ries of the AMC Distinguished Ground Safety Awards with the Categories of the Air Force Chief of
Safety Outstanding Achievement Award for Ground Safety. It establishes an AMC Distinguished Motor-
cycle Safety Award paragraph 27. and AMC RiderCoach of the Year Award paragraph 28.. Paragraph 29.
removes the requirement to publish 1,500 individual mishap-free flying-hour milestones in The Mobility
Forum. It also removes the requirement for HQ AMC/SEE to provide 3,500 and below individual mis-
2                                                                 AMCI36-2805 29 OCTOBER 2007


hap-free flying hour milestone patches. Added Attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting
Information.

Section A—General Information.

1. Purpose. AMC Safety Awards recognize outstanding safety acts or achievements performed by indi-
viduals and units. Commanders at all levels should emphasize and encourage participation in these
awards, review achievements, and submit only those truly deserving recognition. Awards are considered
on a fiscal year basis, except for the following, which may be submitted and/or awarded throughout the
year: Distinguished Individual Safety Award; the Excellence in Airmanship Award; the Individual Mis-
hap-Free Flying-Hour Milestone Award; the Unit Mishap-Free Year/Hour Milestone Award; the Mobility
Forum Writing Contest, and the AMC Director’s Safety Award.

2. Eligibility. Eligibility extends to all active duty units and individuals. AMC-gained ANG and AFRC
units and individuals are eligible only for the AMC Excellence in Airmanship Award; the Individual Mis-
hap-Free Flying-Hour Milestone Award; the Unit Mishap-Free Year/Hour Milestone Award; the AMC
Distinguished Individual Safety Award; and the Mobility Forum Writing Contest. ANG and AFRC units
and individuals participate in the annual AF Safety Awards Program through their respective channels.

3. Unit Awards. The AMC Safety Awards Program provides a wide variety of avenues to stimulate per-
formance and recognize unit achievements.

4. Individual Awards. The AMC Safety Awards program provides a wide variety of avenues for recog-
nition at all levels of achievement. Awards progression should be as follows:
    4.1. Oral compliment from supervisor or commander
    4.2. Letter of appreciation from supervisor or commander
    4.3. Letter of commendation
    4.4. Awards in this Instruction

5. Nomination Suspenses. For annual awards, Wings/Groups will submit the unit packages to arrive at
HQ AMC/SEE not later than mid October (specific date will be sent out by e-mail in August) after the fis-
cal year award period, unless otherwise specified.

6. Nominating Procedures. Unless otherwise indicated, active duty, ANG and AFRC unit commanders
originate nominations and send through command channel safety offices to HQ AMC/SEE, e-mail to
mobilityforum@scott.af.mil. Nomination submittals are limited to one single-spaced page (front side
only) and will be submitted on AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award, using bullet format, and saved as an
Internet Forms Document (.XFD). In some cases, only one nomination for both AMC and Air Force
awards is required. In those cases, submit only for the Air Force award according to AFI 36-2833, Safety
Awards. The AMC Safety Awards Board will automatically review for AMC equivalent.

7. AMC Safety Awards Board. The awards board convenes annually to review nominations. Final
approval is either AMC Commander or AMC Director of Safety (SE), depending on the level of award.
The board is chaired by the AMC Director of Safety or designated representative, and consists of voting
AMCI36-2805 29 OCTOBER 2007                                                                            3


members from headquarters staff and wing Flight, Ground, and Weapons safety offices. Representatives
from HQ AMC/SEE, Executive Services Division, act as advisors to the board.

8. Mishap-Free Status. For the purpose of flight safety awards, “mishap” is defined as any DOD Class
A or B Aircraft Flight or Aircraft Flight related mishap IAW AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and
Reports. For the purpose of ground and weapons safety awards, “mishap” is defined as any DOD Class A
and B mishap, IAW AFI 91-204. Individuals are “mishap-free” when not directly involved with causing
or contributing to any mishap above. Individuals who caused or contributed to incidents, which, only
because of reporting criteria, were not categorized as mishaps, should not be submitted. Units are “mis-
hap-free” when not found accountable in a Class A or B mishap.

9. Mishap Accountability for Awards Purpose. Commanders should not wait for final determination
of cause factors to nominate their units. The AMC Safety Awards Board or the Director of Safety will
ensure accountability has been properly determined before approving awards. For safety awards, com-
manders may also submit rationale supporting unit “no-fault” mishap (due to circumstances clearly
beyond control of the unit). When a unit is held accountable in a mishap, all intermediate units in the
chain of command are also held accountable. Active wings will be considered separately from associate
wings.

10. Presentation of Awards/Displaying of Awards. Senior personnel should present awards in a timely
manner, with maximum participation and publicity. Presentations should be coordinated with local Public
Affairs office whenever possible. Unit awards should be displayed in a central location so all may share
in the achievement.

11. Disposition of Awards. On deactivation, units will send elements to the next level of command for
storage or display. These awards are returned to the unit upon reactivation.

12. Additional Safety Awards Program. Subordinate units are encouraged to establish additional
awards programs to enhance AF and AMC programs. These awards will comply with the spirit and intent
of the AMC program. Units should emphasize the prestige of receiving an award.

Section B—Annual Awards

13. AMC Safety Office of the Year.
   13.1. Purpose. Recognizes the best host Wing Safety Office in the command.
   13.2. Eligibility. All active installation safety offices.
   13.3. Criteria. Board members will consider base size, mission complexity, mishap rates/trends, ini-
   tiatives, evaluations, ORM implementation, IG evaluations, participation in special events, and recog-
   nition by other safety awards, etc.
   13.4. Nominating Procedures. Each installation wing will submit one nominee on an AF IMT 1206
   (Current Version), in bullet format, not to exceed one page.
   13.5. Description of Award. Plaque.
4                                                                   AMCI36-2805 29 OCTOBER 2007


14. AMC Director of Safety Aircrew of Distinction Award.
    14.1. Purpose. To recognize at least two aircrew members up to an entire crew in averting a mishap
    or minimizing the seriousness of an aircraft emergency situation.
    14.2. Eligibility. All active wings and groups and geographically separated groups with a flight mis-
    sion. An aircrew or member of an aircrew may not receive this award and the Koren Kolligian, Jr.,
    Trophy for the same event.
    14.3. Nominating Procedures. Wing/Groups will submit nominations on an AF IMT 1206, in bullet
    format (do not exceed one page) for the Air Force Chief of Safety Aircrew of Distinction Award
    (IAW AFI 36-2833, Section N). AMC will select winner for the AMC Director of Safety Aircrew of
    Distinction Award from the Air Force Chief of Safety Aircrew of Distinction Award nominations.
    The winner of the AMC Director of Safety Aircrew of Distinction Award will be submitted for the Air
    Force Chief of Safety Aircrew of Distinction Award. Include the aircrew’s or aircrew individuals’
    organization and the name, rank, duty assignment, duty Air Force Specialty code (DAFSC), date of
    the event, and type of aircraft. Also include an unclassified description detailed enough for the awards
    board to evaluate the emergency and what corrective action each aircrew member took.
    14.4. Criteria. Same as AFI 36-2833, Section N.
    14.5. Description of Award. Plaque for each member of the aircrew and the unit.

15. AMC Safety Medical Achievement Award.
    15.1. Purpose. Recognizes an individual or organization from the medical community for outstand-
    ing safety contributions or achievements.
    15.2. Eligibility. Any medical unit at the Medical Group or lower level assigned to AMC. Squadron
    Medical Elements are eligible and considered part of the associated medical squadron and group for
    the purpose of this award.
    15.3. Nominating Procedures. Groups may nominate using AF IMT 1206, in bullet format (do not
    exceed one page) one person or one unit for the Air Force Chief of Safety Medical Achievement
    Award (IAW AFI 36-2833, Section O). AMC will select from these nominations.
    15.4. Criteria. Same as AFI 36-2833, Section O.
    15.5. Description of Award. Plaque.

16. AMC Distinguished Flying Unit Safety Award.
    16.1. Purpose. Recognizes the unit with the best Flight Safety Program each year.
    16.2. Eligibility. All active wings and groups and geographically separated groups with a flight mis-
    sion.
    16.3. Nominating Procedures. Submit nominations AF IMT 1206, in bullet format (do not exceed
    one page) for USAF Flight Safety Plaques (IAW AFI 36-2833, Section S). AMC safety board will
    automatically review for AMC selection and send to Air Force Safety Center (AFSC) for Air Force
    recognition.
AMCI36-2805 29 OCTOBER 2007                                                                               5


   16.4. Criteria. Board members take under consideration unit mission, ORM implementation,
   extraordinary tasks completed, number of flight hours for each type and model aircraft flown, and
   total number of hours flown since last charged mishap.
   16.5. Description of Award. Plaque.

17. AMC Distinguished Ground Safety Award.
   17.1. Purpose. Recognizes the AMC unit with the most effective ground safety program at installa-
   tion-level, and tenant wings, groups and geographically separated units.
   17.2. Eligibility. All active AMC organizations with full-time ground safety staff that did not experi-
   ence a Class A or B on-duty mishap within the organization’s control.
      17.2.1. Category I : Large/Composite Wing Organization: An organization that has three or
      more squadrons and 4,000 or more people assigned. This organization is the installation host unit.
      Units eligible for this award are normally eligible to submit for the Air Force Chief of Safety Out-
      standing Achievement Award for Ground Safety Category II Award.
      17.2.2. Category II: Small Wing Organization : An organization that has three or more squad-
      rons with less than 4,000 people assigned. This organization is the installation host unit. Units eli-
      gible for this award are normally eligible to submit for the Air Force Chief of Safety Outstanding
      Achievement Award for Ground Safety Category III Award.
      17.2.3. Category III: Associate/Tenant Organization : An organization with a safety program
      managed by full-time safety professionals independent of the host installation. Units eligible for
      this award are normally eligible to submit for the Air Force Chief of Safety Outstanding Achieve-
      ment Award for Ground Safety Category IV Award.
      17.2.4. Category IV: Geographically Separated Unit (GSU) Organization :              Eligibility
      extends to all En Route Air Mobility Support Squadrons geographically separated from their par-
      ent organization. NOTE: Air Mobility Support Squadrons collocated with their parent wing are
      part of the wing nomination. Units eligible for this award are normally eligible to submit for the
      Air Force Chief of Safety Outstanding Achievement Award for Ground Safety Category V
      Award.
   17.3. Criteria. Board members consider statistical information provided by HQ AMC/SEG (Ground
   Safety Division). In the event of a tie, the Award Board may use the results of higher headquarters
   program management evaluations to determine the award recipient. Units must:
      17.3.1. Be free of on-duty Class A or B ground mishap.
      17.3.2. Have an on-duty mishap rate at or below AMC’s rate for the fiscal award year and better
      than its own rate for the previous fiscal year. Note: If previous year rate was zero, units are still
      eligible for the award unless their rate is higher compared to the average of the two (2) previous
      fiscal years.
      17.3.3. Have reduced the number of off-duty fatalities from the previous fiscal year. Note: If pre-
      vious year rate was zero, units are still eligible for the award unless their rate is higher compared
      to the average of the two (2) previous fiscal years.
      17.3.4. Mission and operational tasks the units performed in the award period to include special
      exercises or deployments with safety implications.
6                                                                  AMCI36-2805 29 OCTOBER 2007


       17.3.5. Educational safety, training, and publicity material developed to enhance safety within the
       organization, AMC, Air Force, or for publishing in safety publications.
       17.3.6. Noteworthy accomplishments, including awards related to safety performance in the
       award year.
    17.4. Nominating Procedures. Submit on AF IMT 1206, in bullet format (do not exceed one page).
    Units will submit nominations for the appropriate category of the Air Force Chief of Safety Outstand-
    ing Achievement Award for Ground Safety (IAW AFI 36-2833, Section M). AMC awards board will
    select from these nominations. AMC awards board will automatically review for eligibility for the
    USAF Ground Safety Plaque (IAW AFI 36-2833, Section AC) and send eligible packages to the Air
    Force Safety Center (AFSC) for Air Force recognition. Wings (or Groups) who wish to submit for the
    USAF Ground Safety Plaque without being considered for the COS Outstanding Achievement Award
    can submit IAW AFI 36-2833, Section AC.
    17.5. Description of Award. Plaque.

18. AMC Distinguished Explosives Safety Award.
    18.1. Purpose. Recognizes the unit with the best Explosives Safety Program.
    18.2. Eligibility. All active wings, geographically separated groups and their subordinate squadrons.
       18.2.1. Category I: Wings, groups, separate operating squadrons or detachments or comparable
       organizations actively engaged in explosives operations.
       18.2.2. Category II: Organizations who actively contribute to explosives safety through
       research, design, test and evaluation, logistics, or training.
    18.3. Criteria. Areas of consideration are: Mishap exposure. Consider type of munitions operations
    that are accomplished by the host/tenant units. Include munitions support provided to mobility opera-
    tions. Address Class C and D mishaps. Risk Assessment: Accomplishments that decreased impact of
    explosives hazards and quantity-distance violations. Results of Department of Defense Explosives
    Safety Board survey and MAJCOM evaluations/inspections visits. Mishap prevention program to
    include ORM implementation and its effectiveness. Outstanding accomplishments and contributions
    to explosives safety. Explosives safety training. Effectiveness of training program, educational and
    publicity material developed for Air Force or command publications. Other pertinent information
    such as research and development, and test support which impacted quality of AF and command
    explosives safety program.
    18.4. Nominating Procedures. Submit on AF IMT 1206, in bullet format (do not exceed one page).
    Units submit for USAF Explosives Safety Plaque (IAW AFI 36-2833, Section U). Board members
    will automatically review for AMC consideration, and select the best unit.
    18.5. Description of Award. Plaque.

19. AMC Distinguished Nuclear Surety Award.
    19.1. Purpose. Recognizes the unit with the best Nuclear Surety Program.
    19.2. Eligibility. All AMC organizations with a nuclear-related mission may compete.
AMCI36-2805 29 OCTOBER 2007                                                                              7


      19.2.1. Category I: Wings, groups, squadrons, detachments, or comparable organizations that
      handle, mate or dismantle, maintain, load or unload, employ, launch, or store nuclear weapons.
      19.2.2. Category II: Organizations responsible for nuclear weapons research, design, or devel-
      opment, or organizations with engineering, logistical airlift, training, or contingency missions that
      involve nuclear weapons or nuclear components.
      19.2.3. Category III: Wings, groups, squadrons, detachments, or comparable organizations that
      design, construct, test, maintain, or operate nuclear reactor facilities.
   19.3. Criteria. Areas of consideration are as outlined in AFI 36-2833, Section W.
   19.4. Nominating Procedures. Submit on AF IMT 1206, in bullet format (do not exceed one page).
   Units submit for USAF Nuclear Surety Plaque (IAW AFI 36-2833, Section W). Board members will
   automatically review for AMC consideration, and select the best unit.
   19.5. Description of Award. Plaque.

20. AMC Operational Risk Management Achievement Award.
   20.1. Purpose. Recognizes the unit that contributed the most toward attaining a cultural change to
   achieve world-class status for managing risk.
   20.2. Eligibility. Eligibility extends to all AMC units.
   20.3. Criteria. Evidence of employment of an exemplary operational risk management program
   magnifying leadership. Implementation of risk management through training and educational accom-
   plishments, and awareness cross tell. This includes risk management initiatives, which have com-
   mand-wide application.
   20.4. Nomination Procedures. Units will provide an AF IMT 1206, in bullet format (not exceeding
   one page) outlining ORM safety initiatives and accomplishments.
   20.5. Description of Award. Plaque.

21. AMC Safety Officer of the Year Award.
   21.1. Purpose. To recognize outstanding achievements and individual contributions in support of the
   AMC Safety Program. This award is given to one primary and one additional duty safety officer.
   21.2. Eligibility. Officers with a safety prefix DAFSC and/or who occupy a safety position number
   are considered primary duty. All others performing safety duties are considered additional duty.
   21.3. Criteria. (1) Development or implementation of outstanding safety policies, programs, or pro-
   cedures that reduce the possibility of mishaps. These may be accomplished in more than one safety
   discipline. (2) Outstanding performance of duties involving quality visits, education and training, mis-
   hap investigation, reporting, and analysis; enforcement of standard practices; and safety management
   resulting in improved operational and maintenance effectiveness.
   21.4. Nominating Procedures. Submit on AF IMT 1206, in bullet format (do not exceed one page).
   Citation is required. AMC will consider the winner of the Safety Officer of the Year – Primary for one
   Air Force-level award: Chief of Staff Individual Safety Award.
   21.5. Description of Award. Plaque.
8                                                                    AMCI36-2805 29 OCTOBER 2007


22. AMC Flight Safety NCO of the Year Award.
    22.1. Purpose. To recognize outstanding achievements and individual contributions in support of the
    AMC Flight Safety Program. This award is given to one primary and one additional duty flight safety
    NCO.
    22.2. Eligibility. NCOs that are Flight Safety NCO graduates and assigned to the Wing Safety Office
    are considered primary duty. All others performing safety duties are considered additional duty.
    22.3. Criteria. (1) Development or implementation of outstanding safety policies, programs, or pro-
    cedures that reduce the possibility of mishaps. These may be accomplished in more than one safety
    discipline. (2) Outstanding performance of duties involving unit visits, education and training, mishap
    investigation, reporting, and analysis; enforcement of standard practices; ORM implementation and
    safety management resulting in improved operational and maintenance effectiveness.
    22.4. Nominating Procedures. Submit on AF IMT 1206, in bullet format (do not exceed one page).
    Citation is required. AMC will consider the winner of the AMC Flight Safety NCO of the Year – Pri-
    mary for two Air Force-level awards: Chief of Staff Individual Safety Award and the Safety Career
    Professional of the Year Award.
    22.5. Description of Award. Plaque.

23. AMC Ground Safety NCO of the Year Award.
    23.1. Purpose. To recognize outstanding achievements and individual contributions in support of the
    AMC Ground Safety Program by one primary and one additional duty ground safety NCO.
    23.2. Eligibility. NCOs with safety DAFSC, 1S0X1 are considered primary duty. All others perform-
    ing safety duties are considered additional duty.
    23.3. Criteria. (1) Development or implementation of outstanding safety policies, programs, or pro-
    cedures that reduce the possibility of mishaps. These may be accomplished in more than one safety
    discipline. (2) Outstanding performance of duties involving unit visits, education and training, mishap
    investigation, reporting, and analysis; enforcement of standard practices; ORM implementation and
    safety management resulting in improved operational and maintenance effectiveness.
    23.4. Nominating Procedures. Submit on AF IMT 1206, in bullet format (do not exceed one page).
    Citation is required. AMC will consider the winner of the Ground Safety NCO of the Year – Primary
    for two Air Force-level awards: Chief of Staff Individual Safety Award and the Safety Career Profes-
    sional of the Year Award.
    23.5. Description of Award. Plaque.

24. AMC Weapons Safety Individual of the Year Award.
    24.1. Purpose. Recognizes outstanding achievements and individual contributions in support of the
    AMC Weapons Safety Program.
    24.2. Eligibility. Air Force military and civilian personnel at all levels. Officers with a safety prefix
    who occupy a safety position number, NCOs with safety SEI, and civilians (GS/GM 018 and 803
    occupational series) will be considered primary duty. All others will be considered additional duty.
    24.3. Criteria. Same criteria as listed in AFI 36-2833, Sections K and/or L.
AMCI36-2805 29 OCTOBER 2007                                                                              9


   24.4. Nominating Procedures. AMC will consider the nominees for the Air Force Nuclear Surety
   Outstanding Achievement Award and the Air Force Explosive Safety Outstanding Achievement
   Award for this award. AMC will consider the winner of the AMC Weapons Safety Individual of the
   Year Award – Primary for two Air Force-level awards: Chief of Staff Individual Safety Award and the
   Safety Career Professional of the Year Award (enlisted and civilian only).
   24.5. Description of Award. Plaque.

25. AMC Outstanding Safety Civilian of the Year Award.
   25.1. Purpose. To recognize outstanding achievements and individual contributions to the AMC
   Safety Program. This award is given to one primary and one additional duty safety civilian.
   25.2. Eligibility. Civilian safety career field (GS/GM 018 and 803 occupational series) are consid-
   ered primary. All others performing safety duties are considered additional duty.
   25.3. Criteria. (1) Development or implementation of outstanding safety policies, programs, or pro-
   cedures that reduce the possibility of mishaps. These may be accomplished in more than one safety
   discipline. (2) Outstanding performance of duties involving quality visits, education and training, mis-
   hap investigation, reporting, and analysis; enforcement of standard practices; and safety management
   resulting in improved operational and maintenance effectiveness.
   25.4. Nominating Procedures. Submit on AF IMT 1206, in bullet format (do not exceed one page).
   AMC will consider the winner of the AMC Safety Civilian of the Year – Primary for two Air
   Force-level awards: Chief of Staff Individual Safety Award and the Safety Career Professional of the
   Year Award.
   25.5. Description of Award. Plaque.

26. AMC Distinguished Motorcycle Safety Award
   26.1. Purpose. Recognizes the AMC unit with the most effective motorcycle safety program.
   26.2. Eligibility.
      26.2.1. Category I: Large Organization : Units with 150 active motorcycle riders (civilian and
      military) or more. This organization is the installation host unit.
      26.2.2. Category II: Small Organization : Units with 100 to 149 active motorcycle riders (civil-
      ian and military). This organization is the installation host unit.
      26.2.3. Category III: Associate/Tenant Organization : Units with 25 to 99 active motorcycle
      riders (civilian and military).
   26.3. Criteria. Board members consider statistical information provided by HQ AMC/SEG. Units
   must:
      26.3.1. Be free of motorcycle fatalities during the award year.
      26.3.2. Have a motorcycle mishap rate at or below AMC’s rate for the fiscal award year and better
      than its own rate for the previous fiscal year. Note: If previous year rate was zero, units are still
      eligible for the award unless their rate is higher compared to the average of the two (2) previous
      fiscal years.
10                                                                  AMCI36-2805 29 OCTOBER 2007


        26.3.3. Educational and publicity material developed to enhance safety within the unit, AMC, Air
        Force or for publishing in safety publications.
        26.3.4. Development or implementation of outstanding safety policies, programs, or procedures
        that reduce the possibility of motorcycle mishaps.
        26.3.5. Outstanding accomplishments, including awards related to motorcycle safety in the award
        year.
     26.4. Nominating Procedures. Submit on AF IMT 1206, in bullet format (do not exceed one page).
     AMC awards board will select from these nominations.
     26.5. Description of Award. Plaque

27. AMC RiderCoach of the Year Award.
     27.1. Purpose. This award recognizes installation-level volunteer RiderCoaches for superior perfor-
     mance or significant contribution to AMC’s Motorcycle Safety Program.
     27.2. Eligibility. Installations may nominate Motorcycle Safety Foundation-certified RiderCoaches
     who are currently active in AMC’s motorcycle safety program.
     27.3. Selection Criteria. Selections are based upon the individual’s contributions to motorcycle
     safety. Areas to consider are:
        27.3.1. Number of MRC (Motorcycle Rider Course) or BRC (Basic RiderCoach) classes taught
        since certified and in the award year.
        27.3.2. Number of ERC (Experience RiderCoach) or ERC Suites taught since certified and in the
        award year.
        27.3.3. Promotion of MSF (Motorcycle Safety Foundation) training.
        27.3.4. Development of safety education and publicity material to support safety awareness cam-
        paign (DUI, gear, motorist awareness, etc.)
        27.3.5. Outstanding accomplishments, including awards related to motorcycle safety in the award
        year.
     27.4. Nomination Procedures. Installation Chiefs of Safety submits on AF IMT 1206, in bullet for-
     mat (do not exceed one page) nominations through command channels to HQ AMC/SEE. The AMC
     Director of Safety approves nomination for all individuals.
     27.5. Description of Award. Plaque.

Section C—Miscellaneous Awards
Note: These are not annual awards. These awards may be submitted throughout the year.

28. AMC Unit Mishap-Free Flying-Year and Flying-Hour Milestone Award.
     28.1. Purpose. Recognizes a significant number of Class A or B mishap-free flying-hours and years.
     28.2. Eligibility. Eligibility extends to all active AMC flying units, wing level and below, and
     AMC-gained ANG/AFRC flying wings/groups/ or squadrons. For active units, eligibility starts on the
     date of activation or reactivation; for ANG and AFRC units, eligibility starts on date of assignment to
AMCI36-2805 29 OCTOBER 2007                                                                             11


   AMC. Units that are reactivated shall resume with all time and hours accrued prior to deactivation.
   Units reassigned to AMC from another command are credited with total mishap-free hours accrued
   under other commands upon date of assignment. Eligibility for a new record starts the day after a unit
   is charged with a mishap.
   28.3. Criteria. Units that fly an average number of hours per year in the left column below may
   award themselves a flying hour milestone award in the intervals stated in the right column below.

Table 1. Unit Flying Hours
Hours                                  Increments
Up to 1,000 hours a year               Increments of 2,500 hours
1,001 - 2,000 hours a year             Increments of 5,000 hours
2,001 - 4,000 hours a year             Increments of 10,000 hours
4,001 - 8,000 hours a year             Increments of 20,000 hours
8,001 - 20,000 hours a year            Increments of 50,000 hours
20,001 - 40,000 hours a year           Increments of 100,000 hours
40,001 - 100,000 hours a year          Increments of 250,000 hours
100,001 hours a year and above         Increments of 500,000 hours

   28.4. Nominating Procedures. This is a unit-level responsibility and function. Units will be respon-
   sible for the monitoring of milestone years and hours. Units will be responsible for informing their
   commanders of milestones reached. Information provided should include:
        28.4.1. Date of unit’s last chargeable Class A or B mishap, if appropriate, or date of activation/
        reactivation. (It is not necessary to describe a past mishap.)
        28.4.2. Total number of years since last chargeable Class A or B mishap.
        28.4.3. Number of FY mishap-free flying-hours.
        28.4.4. Total number of mishap-free flying-hours since unit’s activation/reactivation.
   28.5. Description of Award. Units should update/purchase plaques with changeable year and hour
   plates. Units are responsible for updating the year and hour plates as necessary. Each unit will provide
   a list of all reporting units and their milestones directly to HQ AMC/SEE by e-mail to mobilityfo-
   rum@scott.af.mil. HQ AMC/SEE will forward to Schatz Publishing by e-mail schatzpub@aol.com,
   for inclusion in The Mobility Forum.

29. AMC Individual Mishap-Free Flying-Hour Milestone Award.
   29.1. Purpose. Recognizes a significant number of mishap-free military flying-hours (includes stu-
   dent hours).
   29.2. Eligibility. All AMC and AMC-gained ANG and AFRC aircrew members, foreign exchange
   officers and airmen assigned as AMC crewmembers, and aircrew members assigned to other com-
   mands, but attached to AMC units for flying purposes for a minimum of 12 consecutive months. Mile-
   stones are: 1,500 hours, 2,500 hours, 3,500 hours, 5,000 hours, 6,500 hours, 7,500 hours, 8,500 hours,
   10,000 hours, 12,500 hours, 15,000 hours, and 20,000 hours. Total hours consist of all military fly-
12                                                                   AMCI36-2805 29 OCTOBER 2007


     ing-hours (Active Duty, AFRC, and ANG), including joint, student, secondary, primary, instructor,
     pilot, navigator, and other hours. Mishap-free flying-hours implies that the individual has not been
     deemed “causal” in a Class A or B mishap during that time. Unit will verify the member’s flight
     record to confirm the flying-hour milestone. For those individuals involved with previous Class A or
     B flight mishaps, individual and unit will jointly verify the individual was not deemed “causal” by
     reviewing the AFSAS (Air Force Safety Automated System) mishap report.
     29.3. Nominating Procedures.
        29.3.1. Units: Units submit their requests directly to HQ AMC/SEE, (e-mail mobilityfo-
        rum@scott.af.mil). HQ AMC/SEE will forward to Schatz Publishing, (e-mail: schatz-
        pub@aol.com), for inclusion in The Mobility Forum. Requests will be typed in Rank order and
        then Alphabetical order by Last Name within each specific milestone for 2,500 hours and above.
        Requests can be submitted via e-mail or as an attachment to an e-mail. Requests will include com-
        plete mailing address to include zip + 4. Also need the servicing wing/tenant operations group
        safety office. This is only for filing purposes, since the paperwork is filed under the parent wing/
        tenant operations group. Wing/tenant operation group commanders may delegate approval author-
        ity (for up to, but not including 10,000 and above milestones) to the flight safety office. Certifi-
        cates for wing commanders and higher, and 10,000 hours and above are approved by AMC
        Commander/Vice Commander.
        29.3.2. 10,000 Hours and Above : Units will provide the following information: Individual
        receiving award (Include Middle Initial), position/duty title, individual receiving award unit, indi-
        vidual receiving award unit address (please include zip +4), status (active duty, guard, or reserve),
        go-by name, point of contact name and address if package not to be sent to individual receiving
        award, and assigned wing/tenant operations group.
        29.3.3. Headquarters AMC Personnel: Personnel assigned to the HQ AMC staff will submit
        their request directly to HQ AMC/SEE.
     29.4. Description of Award.
        29.4.1. Certificates. Certificates for 10,000 and above will be distributed to the unit after AMC
        Commander/Vice Commander signature. Units are authorized to develop their own certificates for
        presentation for milestones below 10,000. To assist units in developing their own certificates, cop-
        ies of the most recent AMC/SE versions are available on the HQ AMC/SE Awards website:
        https://private.amc.af.mil/se/SEE/Awards/awards.htm.
        29.4.2. Patches. Milestone patches are worn on flight suits only. HQ AMC/SEE will provide two
        (2) patches for each milestone 5,000 hours and above. Patches for 10,000 and above will be dis-
        tributed to the unit after AMC Commander/Vice Commander signature. Individual units are
        authorized to procure patches through commercial contract.
        29.4.3. Coins. HQ AMC/SEE will provide recipients a coin reflecting appropriate milestone for
        5,000, 7,500, and 10,000-hour milestones. Coins for 10,000 will be distributed to the unit after
        AMC Commander/Vice Commander signature. Individual units are authorized to procure their
        own coins through commercial contract.
AMCI36-2805 29 OCTOBER 2007                                                                              13


30. AMC Distinguished Individual Safety Award.
   30.1. Purpose. Recognizes significant achievements in mishap prevention in any safety functional
   area (Flight, Ground, Weapons, or ORM).
   30.2. Eligibility. All military and DAF civilian personnel assigned to AMC, ANG, or AFRC.
   30.3. Criteria. Nominees are recognized either for a single significant mishap prevention act, or
   extended continuous contributions to safety (at least two years in a safety position, normally at the
   completion of a tour).
   30.4. Nominating Procedures. Unit commanders and supervisors send nominations through com-
   mand channels to HQ AMC/SEE (e-mail mobilityforum@scott.af.mil). The AMC Director of Safety
   approves nominations for all individuals.
   30.5. Description of Award. Plaque.

31. AMC Excellence in Airmanship Award.
   31.1. Purpose. Recognizes significant achievements in airmanship.
   31.2. Eligibility. Eligibility extends to all AMC and AMC-gained ANG and AFRC aircrew mem-
   bers.
   31.3. Criteria. Recognizes achievements that prevented loss of life or substantially reduced personal
   injuries, or damage to an aircraft. Recognizes extraordinary application of training and procedures
   during critical emergencies and abnormal situations, which demonstrate the crewmember’s superior
   airmanship, and professional execution of assigned duties. Crew members who have prevented a
   potential mishap that was caused by their own misdeeds, lack of judgment, or excessive risk-taking
   are ineligible. Commanders should consider whether crew or individual actions may have caused or
   complicated the situation.
   31.4. Nominating Procedures. Unit commanders forward nominations (normally not later than 60
   days after the event) through command channels to HQ AMC/SEE (e-mail mobilityfo-
   rum@scott.af.mil). A letter of explanation should accompany late submissions. If a commander
   wishes to be considered for nomination of the Air Force Aviation Well Done Award, prepare the nom-
   ination package for only the Air Force Aviation Well Done Award (AFI 36-2833, Section Z). Please
   note the six-month restriction in AFI 36-2833.
   31.5. Description of Award. Plaque for each member of the aircrew.

32. Mobility Forum Writing Contest.
   32.1. Purpose. To solicit contributions to The Mobility Forum, and to recognize the best of those
   submitted.
   32.2. Eligibility. All military and civilians assigned to DAF, ANG, and AFRC. All other entries will
   be judged under a special category.
   32.3. Criteria. Entries will be judged on the basis of safety (all disciplines), quality, airlift, tanker
   mission, risk management, originality, suitability for publication, application to AMC mission, read-
   ability, general quality of writing, and conformity to instructions published in The Mobility Forum.
14                                                                    AMCI36-2805 29 OCTOBER 2007


     32.4. Submission Procedures. Each entry (titled) must be the original and unpublished work of the
     author, typed double-spaced (DO NOT INCLUDE AUTHOR’S NAME ON ENTRY). On a separate
     sheet indicate entry title, author’s name, rank/grade (military or civilian), position title, unit assign-
     ment, work address, home address (optional), work telephone number, and a brief biographical
     sketch. Entries should be mailed directly to Schatz Publishing, 11950 W. Highland Ave., Blackwell,
     OK 74631 (e-mail: schatzpub@aol.com). Additional details are published in The Mobility Forum.

33. AMC Director’s Safety Award.
     33.1. Purpose. To recognize significant lifetime achievements in mishap prevention in any safety
     functional area (Flight, Ground, or Weapons) that cannot be adequately recognized by other awards.
     This award recognizes those exceptional individuals who cannot be adequately recognized by existing
     awards.
     33.2. Eligibility. All military and DAF civilian personnel assigned to AMC.
     33.3. Criteria. Nominees are recognized for extremely exceptional long term or career safety accom-
     plishments and achievements.
     33.4. Nominating Procedures. Unit commanders and supervisors send nominations through com-
     mand channels to HQ AMC/SEE (e-mail mobilityforum@scott.af.mil). The AMC Director of Safety
     approves nominations for all individuals.
     33.5. Description of Award. Award will consist of a plaque or other appropriate display.

34. AMC Safety Spotlight Award.
     34.1. Purpose: To recognize non-safety personnel for a one-time special achievement, or who have
     made a single significant contribution that affects overall mishap prevention activities towards, flight,
     ground, or weapons safety program.
     34.2. Eligibility. All military and DAF civilian personnel assigned to AMC.
     34.3. Criteria. Examples of actions worthy of consideration:
        34.3.1. Demonstrated skill and ingenuity in handling an exceptionally difficult or unusual situa-
        tion that prevented the loss of life, injury to personnel, or aircraft or other property damage.
        34.3.2. Development and implementation of safety program that improves the effectiveness of
        mishap prevention programs or was adapted for use at wing level or higher.
     34.4. Nominating Procedures. Bi-Monthly, personnel will be nominated at the wing level by the
     respective group commander. These nominees will be approved by the wing commander (or delegated
     representative) before forwarded electronically to HQ AMC/SEE (e-mail mobilityfo-
     rum@scott.af.mil). Nominations must highlight their achievements and be written in a short para-
     graph style suitable for publishing. Nominations must be accompanied by a picture of the
     individual(s). AMC/SE will forward the packages to through the appropriate functional area who will
     determine their respective bi-monthly winner. Winners will be published in the Mobility Forum with
     their picture. Nominations are due to HQ AMC/SEE by 1 Jan, 1 Mar, 1 May, 1 Jul, 1 Sep, 1 Nov of
     each year.
     34.5. Description of Award. Award will consist of a certificate and congratulatory letter.
AMCI36-2805 29 OCTOBER 2007                                                             15


35. Adopted Forms. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award; AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication;



                                        DAVID R. MILLER, Colonel, USAF
                                        Director of Safety
16                                                    AMCI36-2805 29 OCTOBER 2007


                                       Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs
AFI 36-2833, Safety Awards
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSAS—Air Force Safety Automated System
AFSC—Air Force Safety Center
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMOG—Air Mobility Operations Group
AMSS—Air Mobility Support Squadron
ANG—Air National Guard
BRC—Basic RiderCoach
DAF—Department of Air Force
DAFSC—Duty Air Force Specialty Code
DOD—Department of Defense
DUI—Driving Under the Influence
ERC—Experience RiderCoach
GM—General Manager
GS—General Schedule
IAW—In accordance with
IG—Inspector General
IMT—Information Management Tool
MAJCOM—Major Command
MRC—Motorcycle Rider Course
MSF—Motorcycle Safety Foundation
NCO—Non-Commissioned Officer
AMCI36-2805 29 OCTOBER 2007                  17


ORM—Operational Risk Management
RIMS—Records Information Management System
RP—Recurring Publication
SEI—Special Experience Identifier
USAF—United States Air Force
XFD—Internet Forms Document
