BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                 AIR MOBILITY COMMAND INSTRUCTION 65-601
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                         16 OCTOBER 2006
                                              Incorporating Through Change 3, 17 August 2011

                                                                        Financial Management

                                                         AMC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                                    FOR OPERATIONS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICAITON IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AMC/FMAO                                                   Certified by: HQ AMC/FMA
                                                                          (Col Paul L. Carter III)
Supersedes:   AMCI65-601, 1 November                                                   Pages: 23
              2004


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 65-6, Budget, Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, Air Force Instruction
(AFI) 65-601, Volume 2, Budget Management for Operations, and Department of Defense
Financial Management Regulation (DoDFMR) 7000.14, Volume 11B, Reimbursable Operations,
Policy and Procedures-Defense Business Operations Fund. Commanders will use this
instruction to discharge their responsibility for sound financial management. It applies to all
AMC units below the major command (MAJCOM) level, funded from Headquarters, Air
Mobility Command (HQ AMC). This instruction does not apply to Air National Guard or United
States Air Force Reserve units. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information. Ensure all records in this publication are maintained and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123, Management of Records, and the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision incorporates Interim Change (IC) 2010-3. The following changes are made:
Paragraphs 3., 6.6.3.1., 15.5., and 16. revised the Budget Policy Community of Practice (CoP)
web link; paragraph 6.1. revised examples of the non-AMC base funding points that submit
execution plans to HQ AMC/FMA; paragraph 6.6.3.1. added the Air Force FM Data Quality
Service web link; paragraph 6.6.3.7.3. revised the AMC/FM web page; paragraph 6.6.3.6.1.
deleted the last sentence in the previous publication; paragraph 7.3.1. deleted reference to the
National Security Personnel System; paragraph 7.4.2.2. replaced references of EEIC 59X with
 2                                                                                       AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006


5XX and added EEIC reference 63X; paragraph 8.7. deleted reference to the Budget Advisory
Board (BAB) and replaced it with Air Mobility Command Group/Budget (AMCG/B) and also
added reference to the Council of Deputies; added reference to AFI 65-601 Volume 1 to
paragraph 16; corrected web site references and updated acronyms in Attachment 1. A margin
bar (|) indicates a change from the previous publication.

       1.     General. ..................................................................................................................    2
       2.     Operational Risk Management (ORM). .................................................................                           3
       3.     Distribution. ...........................................................................................................      3
       4.     Updates. .................................................................................................................     3
       5.     Applicable Terms. ..................................................................................................           3
       6.     Financial Management Responsibilities. ...............................................................                         4
       7.     Financial Committees. ...........................................................................................              8
       8.     Concepts. ................................................................................................................    11
       9.     FMB Minutes. ........................................................................................................         12
       10.    O&M 3400 and MFH Quarterly Adjustments. ......................................................                                13
       11.    TWCF AVPOL Monthly Report. ..........................................................................                         13
       12.    Fiscal Year-End Close-Out. ...................................................................................                13
       13.    Funding Procedures for Base Investment Equipment. ...........................................                                 13
       14.    Foreign Military Sales (FMS) Administration Funding. .......................................                                  14
       15.    Resource Management System (RMS) Training. ..................................................                                 14
       16.    Inter/Intra Service Support Agreement (ISSA) Management. ...............................                                      15
       17.    Adopted Forms: .....................................................................................................          16

ATTACHMENT 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              17

ATTACHMENT 2—FORMAT FOR PREPARATION OF FMB MINUTES                                                                                          22

Attachment 3—DELETED                                                                                                                        23


1. General. Financial managers require a continuing awareness and involvement by all resource
managers to achieve mission objectives within the approved annual financial operating program.
This instruction pertains primarily to the management of funds for the Operations and
Maintenance (O&M) 3400 program, the Military Family Housing (MFH) program, base-
procured investment equipment (3080 appropriation) program, and the AMC Transportation
Working Capital Fund (TWCF) operating and capital programs. Procedures not applicable to
these programs are specified. AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures,
provides funding guidance for O&M 3400, MFH, and 3080 procurement appropriations and
AMCI 65-602, TWCF Budget Guidance and Procedures, provides funding guidance on the
AMC TWCF (97X4930.FD40) appropriation.
AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006                                                                    3


2. Operational Risk Management (ORM). AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management,
defines ORM as a decision-making process to systematically evaluate possible courses of action,
identify risks and benefits, and determine the best course of action for any given situation. It
enables commanders, functional managers, and supervisors to maximize operational capabilities
while minimizing risk by applying a simple, systematic process appropriate for all personnel
functions, both on- and off-duty. ORM has four main principles: (1) accept no unnecessary risk;
(2) make risk decisions at the appropriate level; (3) accept risk when the benefits outweigh the
cost; and (4) integrate ORM into operations and planning at all levels. AMC/FM has directed the
implementation of the ORM fundamentals and philosophy into all aspects of our financial
management culture in accordance with AFI 90-901.
3. Distribution. This AMCI is available on the AMC Budget Policy Community of Practice
(CoP) at https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=AM-FM-BH-01.
AMCI 65-601 is also available on the Air Force E-Publishing web site: http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil. Select ―Major Commands‖ followed by ―Air Mobility Command‖ and then
select the series ―65 Financial Management.‖
4. Updates. HQ AMC/FMA will provide revisions to AMCI 65-601 through interim change
(IC) releases or a complete revision to the instruction. You may submit suggestions for updates
to HQ AMC/FMAO, Attn: Budget Policy and Procedures, 402 Scott Drive, Unit 1K1, Scott AFB
Il 62225-5311. Use Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Please be specific as to the purpose of your suggestion. Provide as much information as possible
to include the benefits derived from your proposed change.
5. Applicable Terms.
   5.1. Responsibility Center Manager (RCM). A commander or individual in charge of an
   organization consuming resources, with span of control over one or more subordinate cost
   centers. The title usually applies to squadron commanders, group commanders, and wing
   commanders. These individuals are the principal levels that manage financial resources-the
   designation of the RCM recognizes formal resource management responsibility. A formal
   letter of appointment is not necessary. However, the FMA office will maintain a current list
   of the names, grades, duty titles, office symbols, and telephone numbers of all RCMs. AFI
   65-601, Volume 2, chapters 2 and 10, describe the specific responsibilities of the RC/RCM.
   5.2. Resource Advisor (RA). An individual appointed by an RCM to monitor the preparation
   of budget estimates, participate in the development of financial targets, and monitor the use
   of financial resources in day-to-day operations. (See paragraph 8.9 of this instruction for
   appointment of aircrew members as RAs.) AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapter 10, paragraph
   10.2.5, describes the specific responsibilities of the RA. NOTE: The FMA Office will
   maintain a record of RAs appointed by their respective RCM.
   5.3. Alternate Resource Advisor (ARA). An individual appointed by an RCM to assist the
   primary RA and to assume financial duties during the absence of the primary. (See paragraph
   8.9 of this instruction for appointment of aircrew members as ARAs.) NOTE: The FMA
   office will maintain a record of ARAs appointed by their respective RCM.
   5.4. Cost Center Manager (CCM). The individual responsible for the activity of a cost center
   or work center. The CCM works with the RA or RCM on matters pertaining to the financial
   management of their particular function.
 4                                                            AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006


     5.5. Consult AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapter 10, for ARA/CCM responsibilities.
6. Financial Management Responsibilities.
     6.1. Financial Management Analysis (FMA) Office. Preparation and performance of the
     execution plan for the unit is the responsibility of the AMC wing or other AMC funding
     points’ FMA office (i.e., AMC tenants at other major command (MAJCOM) locations or
     other unique AMC organizations located on AMC wings that are funded separately by HQ
     AMC/FMA for day-to-day operations). Note: For the purpose of discussion and to preclude
     repetition, all references to ―AMC wings‖ in the paragraphs below also include all other
     AMC funding points that submit execution plans to HQ AMC/FMA (e.g., the 89th Airlift
     Wing, USAF Expeditionary Center, 317th Airlift Group, 615th and 621st Contingency
     Response Wings (CRW), 515th and 521st Air Mobility Operations Wings (AMOW) (not all
     inclusive)).
     6.2. Review and Validation of Unit Financial Requirements. AMC FMA offices, through the
     recommendations of their Financial Working Groups (FWG) review and validate execution
     plan inputs, mid-year revisions and other inputs to the command by its units. FMA offices, in
     conjunction with the FWG, validate and rank unit unfunded requirements to reflect the
     financial status of the unit and priorities of the wing commander.
        6.2.1. Execution Plan. Each AMC wing supports the command effort to formulate a
        budget submission to the Air Staff. Whenever the AMC bases/funding points participate
        in the execution plan formulation, their inputs are generally due to HQ AMC/FMA in
        April and the command execution plan is due to SAF/FMB in June. Unit inputs are
        routed through the local wing/funding point for review, validation and consolidation.
        Wings are required to follow command guidance and explain all unit requirements. See
        AMCPAM 65-603, Budget Operating Guidance, chapter 3, paragraph 3.7 for additional
        guidance concerning the AMC O&M Execution Plan and TWCF Budget Estimate
        Submission requirements.
        6.2.2. (DELETED) .
        6.2.3. Fiscal Year-End Closeout. AMC Wing FMA offices serve as the base focal point
        for all closeout issues and should establish local procedures and ensure they are followed.
        HQ AMC/FMA provides year-end budget and reporting guidance each year to assist in
        the closeout process. The closeout objective is to maximize the use of current year
        funding and minimize potential fall-in or fall-out in the following fiscal year. To achieve
        this goal, AMC wing FMA offices must ensure controls are established to account for
        and properly obligate all valid current year requirements within available funding.
            6.2.3.1. Maintain a prioritized list of approved unfunded requirements that may be
            obligated before end-of-year final reporting.
            6.2.3.2. Notify HQ AMC/FMA of any O&M/TWCF funds that cannot be
            obligated/expensed as soon as possible but no later than 24 hours prior to year-end
            closeout (30 September).
            6.2.3.3. Establish procedures to ensure all unliquidated obligations, particularly those
            supported by miscellaneous obligation reimbursement documents (MORDs), are
            recorded.
AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006                                                                    5


         6.2.3.4. Coordinate with base supply and the contracting office to ensure timely
         obligation of funds. Ensure adjustments to contractual documents are coordinated
         with contracting and necessary modifications are issued. Check with the accounting
         liaison office to determine when documents have been received and recorded. Ensure
         MORDs for year-end adjustments are established per DFAS-DE Interim Guidance,
         Accounting for Obligations, April 2000. See AMCPAM 65-603, chapter 22, for
         additional information concerning closeout guidance.
  6.3. Financial Management. Financial management is a continuously changing process, and
  while the responsibility rests with the commander, the focus of primary financial
  management emphasis is at the second level responsibility center (RC). It is at this point in
  the organizational chain that significant planning and programming decisions are made.
  Subject to any restrictions and limitations imposed by law, higher authority, or the
  commander, the second level RC has complete flexibility to use allocated funds to
  accomplish the mission. For financial management purposes, you should view the second
  level RC as a separate entity consisting of subordinate (third or fourth level) cost centers
  (CC). All funding requirements should accumulate upward from CCs, to the second level
  RCs, to the 1st level RC; conversely, approved programs distribute downward. All budget
  submissions and unfunded requirements funnel through the second level RA for approval by
  the second level RCM, then to 1st level RCM for approval before forwarding to the FMA
  office. You should resolve funding problems within the second level RC organization by
  reprogramming, revising, deferring, etc., among subordinate RCs and CCs before elevating
  to the Financial Management Board (FMB) or commander for resolution. The Group RA
  reviews all subordinate RC budget submissions and unfunded requirements in order to advise
  the Group Commander (RCM) in preparation for FMB action.
  6.4. Financial Policy. The FMA office will provide all commanders, RCMs and RAs
  documented guidance on any new AMC command financial policies that affect their
  operating programs. This guidance can be in the form of periodic policy letters, E-mail, base-
  wide bulletins, and briefings at staff meetings and/or financial committee meetings.
  6.5. Loading Targets. Establish annual and quarterly fund targets according to the policies
  enumerated in this instruction, AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapters 7 and 10, and AMCI 65-605,
  Responsibility Center/Cost Center (RC/CC) and Work Center (WC) Codes. You should target
  O&M and TWCF funding authorities (obligation and expense authority respectively) to those
  RCs who exercise significant management control. FMA offices will balance command
  funding documents to annual and quarterly targets loaded in the accounting system for all
  fiscal years and fund codes at least monthly.
  6.6. Unit Responsibilities.
     6.6.1. Unit Commanders. Commanders are responsible for the productive, prudent, and
     lawful use of allocated resources under public law, established directives and guidance
     provided. Commanders should support and actively participate in all phases of resource
     management.
     6.6.2. Base Comptrollers. Base comptrollers are required to establish and maintain an
     effective financial management structure for base level and subordinate units. Their
     interaction with the Wing Commander, RCMs, functional area experts, and other RMS
     players set the tone for the unit financial management program.
6                                                       AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006


    6.6.3. FMA Officers. Basic responsibilities outlined in AFI 65-601, Volume 2, are to (1)
    help prepare, revise and carry out financial plans and (2) review and analyze accounting
    data to help match available funds against programmed requirements. Additional
    responsibilities are as follows:
       6.6.3.1. Financial Coding Structure. HQ AMC/FMAO will develop a financial
       coding structure guide for AMC FMA offices. The guide will include Emergency and
       Special Program (ESP), Program Element (PEC), and limitations, as appropriate. Air
       Force Element of Expense/Investment Codes (EEICs), Sales Codes, RC/CCs, PECs,
       and other data elements are available on the Air Force FM Data Quality Service web
       site at https://dqs.afbudsys.disa.mil/DataDictionary/ElementChoice. Air Force
       and AMC ESP codes are accessible on the AMC/FM Budget Policy CoP at
       https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=AM-FM-BH-01.
       All changes to coding structure (to include requesting new EEICs and RC/CCs), must
       be submitted to HQ AMC/FMAO for SAF/FM approval.
       6.6.3.2. FMA officers will assist the Defense Finance and Accounting Service
       (DFAS) field site and accounting liaison office to ensure that only the appropriate
       EEICs, RC/CCs and other appropriation and reporting elements, i.e., sales codes,
       functional categories, and ESP codes are reflected on commitment and obligation
       documents.
       6.6.3.3. Funding Documents. Maintain a file of all funding documents and messages
       received from HQ AMC/FMA. Ensure all funding messages or memorandums of
       telephonic funding actions have been received and are posted to the accounting
       records. Verify that accounting records agree with funding documents. NOTE: If
       passage of defense appropriations or other funds distribution from the Air Staff is
       delayed, HQ AMC/FMA will issue interim guidance. This normally provides
       authority to go on with essential activities consistent with the prior year level of
       effort.
       6.6.3.4. Funding Limitations. Establish local controls and procedures to ensure full
       compliance with all legal and administrative limitations. Review status at least
       quarterly, or more frequently, as required, at Financial Management Board (FMB)
       and FWG meetings (see paragraphs 7.1 and 7.5 of this instruction). Report suspected
       Anti-Deficiency Act violations to HQ AMC/FMF and coordinate with the local
       accounting liaison office.
       6.6.3.5. Program Development. Take part in the planning process to ensure all
       budgeting and funding considerations are included. Attend local meetings where
       plans and programs impacting appropriated and TWCF funds are discussed.
       Research, formulate and validate cost data, work units and cost factors used in
       financial plan preparation, revision and management decisions.
       6.6.3.6. Program Review and Analysis. Analyze adequacy of funding to meet
       approved program objectives. Ensure essential mission and support requirements are
       funded. Identify unfunded requirements and make every effort to satisfy these
       requirements internally through reprogramming and other economies.
AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006                                                                     7


           6.6.3.6.1. Program Balance and Reprogramming. Identify inequities in funds
           distribution and research sources for potential reprogramming adjustments.
           Review reprogramming requests to ensure they are equitable, meet mission
           objectives, and are in compliance with current limitations and other appropriate
           guidance.
           6.6.3.6.2. Investigate variances and trends between actual obligation rates and
           planned targets. Keep staff, operating units, and financial management
           committees informed on all findings and recommend corrective action, i.e.
           policies, reprogramming, or controls, if necessary.
        6.6.3.7. Emergency Requirements. Occasionally, an emergency will arise that needs
        an immediate funding solution, i.e., catastrophic electric or water line failure, or
        natural disaster response. Procedures are as follows:
           6.6.3.7.1. With unit commander approval, use local funds to support emergency
           actions to protect human life, government property or facilities. Identify all
           associated expenses using a local ESP code. NOTE: HQ AMC/FMA or
           SAF/FMBMM may issue a MAJCOM or Air Force ESP code to track costs for
           unique circumstances (e.g., hurricane evacuation, disaster relief support, etc.). HQ
           AMC/FMA may also direct the use of AMC ESP code AR (Alpha Romeo) to
           capture costs incident to the recovery, repair, and replacement of assets (facilities,
           equipment, infrastructure, etc.) along with any Air Force personal property
           resulting from damage or destruction due to natural disasters or Acts of God, to
           the extent authorized by statute or fiscal law.
           6.6.3.7.2. Instruct unit civil engineer personnel to identify requirement(s) to their
           command counterparts, if applicable, and follow specific HQ AMC/A7
           emergency project reporting procedures.
           6.6.3.7.3. During a routine storm (e.g., ice, rain, wind, hail, etc.), units should
           notify their base FMA office by telephone, to advise them of the circumstances
           surrounding the storm damage and a rough estimate of repair/clean-up costs.
           Units should follow up with written confirmation (E-mail). The base FMA offices
           will in turn notify HQ AMC/FMA by telephone and follow up with a confirming
           E-mail. Prior to an impending natural disaster, the base FMA should contact HQ
           AMC/FMA 48 hours (or as early as possible) in advance of the expected strike. A
           prestrike report provides notice of the anticipated natural disaster event and
           potential vulnerabilities. Within 48 hours after a natural disaster, the base FMA
           will contact HQ AMC/FMA with specific information as outlined on the
           AMC/FM                         web                     page                       at
           https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/DocMan/DOCMain.asp?Filter=OO-FM-MJ-
           11&FolderID=OO-FM-MJ-11-20&Tab=0. A post-strike report includes digital
           photographs of the damage (where available) and cost estimates for
           repair/replacement. Within 96 hours following the first post-strike report, the base
           FMA will submit a revised report to HQ AMC/FMA. Further updates should be
           provided as required.
           6.6.3.7.4. If a contractor is involved, notify the appropriate contracting officer
           before any action is taken to obligate the government. (NOTE: For procedures
 8                                                           AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006


               resulting from emergency conditions as a result of wartime activities, reference
               AFI 10-213, Comptroller Operations Under Emergency Conditions).
           6.6.3.8. Staff Assistance to Subordinate Units.
               6.6.3.8.1. Provide technical help to responsibility center managers, resource
               advisors, subordinate units, other staff officials and tenant units in the
               development of operating budgets and financial plans, and to carry out approved
               programs.
               6.6.3.8.2. Provide financial management policy decisions and procedural
               guidance to appropriate resource management personnel.
               6.6.3.8.3. Maintain personal contact with operating activities to be familiar with
               functions, plans, accomplishments and problems.
           6.6.3.9. Quality Assurance Program.
               6.6.3.9.1. Use Air Force Accounting and Finance Office (AFAFO) and/or AMC
               Unit Compliance Inspection (UCI) checklists to ensure all functional
               responsibilities are accomplished and comply with standard self-inspection
               program procedures. Supplement these checklists as required.
               6.6.3.9.2. Review AMC reports from other bases and check for like deficiencies.
           6.6.3.10. Other Administrative Functions.
               6.6.3.10.1. Resource Management System (RMS) Administration. Ensure
               administrative requirements of wing or unit financial management committees are
               developed and maintained including membership appointments, meeting
               notifications, agenda, briefing requirements, development of financial
               management policies and fund controls, implementation of USAF, AMC and
               local policies and directives, and appropriate minutes of meetings.
               6.6.3.10.2. Resource Management Team (RMT). Participate in RMT visits to
               RC/CCs to provide assistance and advice, to gather and distribute new resource
               management ideas, and to identify restricting policies and procedures. RMT visits
               are not mandatory. However, an active program at AMC units is encouraged. See
               AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapter 12, for guidelines on establishing a RMT.
               6.6.3.10.3. File Documentation. Establish and maintain files to support
               documentation requirements necessary to ensure office continuity, show
               accomplishment of assigned responsibilities, and identify financial program data,
               decisions, policies and guidance.
               6.6.3.10.4. Financial Management Directives. Within the comptroller activity,
               maintain and have access to applicable DoD/AF/AMC directives, instructions,
               and AMC supplements to DoD/AF instructions on financial management.
               Establish local directives and supplements, as necessary.
7. Financial Committees.
     7.1. Financial Management Board (FMB). AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapter 2, paragraph
     2.12., provides guidance on the establishment of review committees, to include the FMB.
AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006                                                                      9


  The senior or host wing commander at each base establishes the FMB to ensure the
  allocation of resources in the most effective manner. The FMB convenes at the call of the
  chairperson. While there is no SAF/FM mandated frequency, we recommend the FMB meet
  at least quarterly. The FMB should convene more frequently if the situation dictates, i.e., last
  quarter of the fiscal year. During fiscal year-end close-out, the FMB should meet at least
  once during the month of August and as required in September in order to guarantee a
  smooth close-out process prior to transitioning to the new fiscal year.
  7.2. The comptroller or the FMA officer should reestablish the FMB frequency, agenda, and
  format of financial data to be presented with a new wing commander whenever he/she
  assumes the duties.
  7.3. FMB Membership.
     7.3.1. For host AMC bases, the wing commander or vice-commander during the
     commander’s absence chairs the FMB. Suggested minimum composition for the FMB is
     wing commander, group commanders for Medical, Operations, Maintenance, Mission
     Support, and Director of Staff, and the Comptroller. While additional membership is
     encouraged, these individuals should serve as advisors to the FMB. Note: The head of the
     Civilian Employment Cost Management Committee (CECMC) should be an advisor to
     the FMB for civilian manpower issues that may impact the financial management of the
     wing. The FMA officer serves as the facilitator and recorder.
     7.3.2. For AMC tenant units and medical centers having a separate operating budget
     account number (OBAN), the composition of the FMB will vary depending on the type
     of organizational structure involved. We suggest you compose tenant wing and group
     (including geographically separated units (GSU)) FMB members equivalent to AMC host
     wing group commanders.
  7.4. Specific Responsibilities.
     7.4.1. All FMB approval actions must be documented in the FMB minutes. Approval
     may be accomplished via AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet (SSS), if the FMB was
     unable to formally convene to approve any of the requirements listed under this
     paragraph below. The FMA office will maintain a copy of all SSS approval
     documentation. The FMB approves the following:
         7.4.1.1. Operating budget and execution plans (O&M 3400, TWCF, MFH, and
         3080).
         7.4.1.2. Distribution of annual programs (O&M 3400, TWCF, and MFH) to Groups,
         Wing Staff, and Civil Engineering (CE).
         7.4.1.3. The prioritized list of investment equipment (3080 appropriation; budget
         project account code (BPAC) 845010, base-procured investment equipment (BPIE)).
         NOTE: The FMB will also assure the completion of all applicable Economic
         Analysis (EA) for these requirements.
         7.4.1.4. The prioritized unfunded requirements list.
         7.4.1.5. Annual reprogramming actions between Group CCs. NOTE: Within a
         budget activity (BA), the wing commander may designate a reprogramming threshold
         below the level requiring FMB approval, provided the appropriate RCs are in
10                                                       AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006


        agreement. Review all reprogramming actions below the threshold at the next FMB
        meeting. You should establish this policy during the 1st meeting of each new fiscal
        year and document it in the FMB minutes.
        7.4.1.6. The prioritized list of TWCF Capital requirements. Include all locally
        approved AF Form 3215, C-4 Systems Requirements Documents (CSRD), in the list,
        if required. NOTE: The FMB will also assure the completion of all applicable EAs
        for these requirements.
     7.4.2. The FMB is responsible for the following reviews. (NOTE: See paragraph
     7.4.2.11 for delegation authority.)
        7.4.2.1. The total TWCF expenses (accrued expenditures unpaid (AEU) and accrued
        expenditures paid (AEP)) for all operating budget accounts, including architect-
        engineer (A-E) services and the sustainment, restoration and maintenance (SRM)
        (formerly the maintenance and repair (MR)) account. The TWCF review should also
        include a separate look at obligations in the modernization (formerly minor
        construction (MC)) account. During the last two months of the fiscal year, review the
        potential amount of undelivered orders outstanding (UOO) rollover. The TWCF
        annual program includes additional authority for supply, equipment, and depot level
        reparable (DLR) due-out transactions (UOO) and obligation authority for SRM
        projects.
        7.4.2.2. Total obligations and expenses by combined Air Force EEIC, (e.g., 409,
        5XX, 6XX, 62X, 63X, etc.) compared to annual program, for all appropriations. As a
        minimum, focus the review at the Group level. For this purpose, CE will be reviewed
        separately (O&M 3400, TWCF, and MFH).
        7.4.2.3. Monitor actual cost per flying hour for assigned weapons systems.
        7.4.2.4. Base-procured investment equipment (3080 appropriation) and TWCF
        capital programs to include status of funds, approval of new items, and approval of
        reprogramming actions.
        7.4.2.5. Reimbursements by RC within BA (O&M 3400) and budget project (MFH).
        7.4.2.6. Civilian pay program, to include the execution of work year costs in relation
        to the annual program. NOTE: This is only applicable to those bases that do not have
        a separate formal committee (i.e., the Human Resources Management Board (HRMB)
        or the CECMC), to perform a detailed review of the civilian pay program.
        7.4.2.7. MFH by 3-digit Budget Project.
        7.4.2.8. (DELETED) .
        7.4.2.9. Funding received from HQ AMC/FMAO since last FMB.
        7.4.2.10. The legal limitations and targets on all command funding documents.
        7.4.2.11. All reviews required in paragraph 7.4.2 may be modified to meet local
        circumstances or delegated to the Financial Working Group (FWG). In either case
        approval must be obtained, in writing, from the current Wing Commander.
AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006                                                                      11


      7.4.3. FMB Minutes. The FMB recorder (FMA officer) should promptly prepare meeting
      minutes, file the original copy in the FMA office, and provide copies to the FMB and
      FWG members. See paragraph 9 of this instruction for detailed requirements.
   7.5. Financial Working Group (FWG). As its name implies, the FWG is a working-level
   financial management group. Its efforts support the FMB. AMC organizations in a tenant
   status (either on AMC/non-AMC bases or non-Air Force locations) having a separate OBAN
   do not need to establish a FWG if its membership would include essentially the same
   personnel as the FMB. FWG meetings convene as necessary to support the deliberation and
   decision process of the FMB. We recommend that the FWG meet at least quarterly, but may
   meet more often to review the status of funds and to ensure the practice of sound financial
   management. During fiscal year-end close-out, the FWG should meet at least once in the
   month of August and as required in September.
      7.5.1. FWG Membership.
          7.5.1.1. The FMA officer chairs the FWG and designates someone from the FMA
          office as the recorder.
          7.5.1.2. The general membership should be, as a minimum, the RAs for the RCM
          who are members of the FMB. Other personnel may attend FWG meetings as deemed
          necessary by the chairperson.
          7.5.1.3. Membership of FWGs established for an AMC tenant unit that has a separate
          OBAN should include those RAs organizationally consistent with their FMB.
      7.5.2. Specific Responsibilities. The FWG must develop and approve for submission to
      the FMB those items that require FMB approval. The FWG membership must also
      review the items to be briefed at the FMB and be prepared to discuss and define program
      changes and deviations.
      7.5.3. A memorandum for record (MFR) will be prepared and maintained for review by
      higher authority for each FWG meeting. The MFR will summarize actions, if any,
      relating to the working group’s specific recommendations. Attach a list of FWG
      attendees to the MFR.
      7.5.4. We encourage all AMC wings and groups administering both O&M 3400 and
      TWCF operating funding programs to conduct a combined FWG. However, the local
      financial structure may necessitate the establishment of two separate FWGs.
8. Concepts.
   8.1. The financial program of each unit must, at all times, reflect its requirements and related
   resources, and should identify scheduled consumption of resources to provide the basis for
   management actions and future planning. No matter how well any financial program is
   conceived and administered, it is subject to revision to reflect mission changes, operational
   adjustments, and levels of resource availability.
   8.2. You should distribute annual (TWCF) and quarterly (O&M 3400, MFH) funding
   authorizations as accurately as possible to the applicable BA, EEIC, RC/CC, and program
   element codes (PEC) where you anticipate the expenditures/obligations. HQ AMC/FMA as
   well as SAF/FMB monitors status reports reflecting the distribution of the annual and
   quarterly programs, as well as actual expenditures and obligations incurred to date. Failure to
 12                                                        AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006


   properly distribute annual and quarterly funding authorizations and to properly record
   expenditures/obligations may provide misleading information concerning the financial status
   of the wing and the command.
   8.3. You should load targets to the CC level in the accounting system for supplies. If more
   than one supply organization code is assigned to a CC, then load targets to only one
   organization code unless directed by the RCM to do otherwise. Quarterly targets must
   reconcile with the base-level computer targets by RC. Do not break down targets in the
   supply system to each CC with each RC unless directed by the RCM.
   8.4. Cost Center Management (CCM). AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapter 10 paragraph 10.2.4,
   and AMCI 65-605, paragraph 5.2, define a CC. The major role of a CCM (or work center
   target manager) is to manage the work center’s supply program. Whether the CCM directly
   manages other commodities is at the discretion of each RCM.
   8.5. Funding documents (Automated Funds Management (AFM) for Air Force O&M
   appropriations, MFH, and TWCF; Program Budget Accounting System (PBAS) for DoD 97-
   type appropriations) issued by HQ AMC/FMAO display financial data by BA (O&M 3400),
   budget program and project (TWCF and MFH), and BPAC (3080 appropriation). The FMB
   and FWG must ensure a balanced program within total fund availability. The Funds Control
   section in HQ AMC/FMAO provides the DFAS Field Site a copy of all funding documents
   issued to AMC bases.
   8.6. All AMC funding points have the flexibility to reprogram funds throughout the fiscal
   year, except as specifically provided in the HQ AMC/FMA funding document or as restricted
   by legal limitations on appropriations. However, in order to eliminate ―expense, obligation,
   and commitment chasing,‖ you should accomplish any reprogramming actions only after a
   close review of obligation and expense rates, program changes, and forecasted requirements.
   8.7. HQ AMC/FMA retains no ―reserve‖ other than those funds targeted for centrally
   managed programs (sustainment, restoration, and modernization by contract (SRMC), A-E
   design, chemical warfare defense equipment (CWDE), Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) Exercises,
   etc.), identified to the Air Mobility Command Group/Budget (AMCG/B) and approved by
   the AMC Council of Deputies and AMC/CC. At the beginning of each fiscal year, HQ
   AMC/FMA issues each AMC wing/funding point a fully funded and viable operating
   program.
   8.8. Traditionally, funds allocated to an organization do not usually satisfy total
   requirements. It is the responsibility of the wing/group commanders, through their FMB and
   FWG, to ensure critical ―hard-core‖ mission items are funded.
   8.9. The financial management positions at each AMC OBAN/funding point include RCMs,
   primary and alternate RAs, and CCMs. Since financial responsibilities of the RCM and CCM
   go hand in hand with supervisory responsibilities, consider only primary and alternate RA
   positions to be additional duties. Do not consider aircrew members for any financial
   management additional duty positions unless specifically requested.
9. FMB Minutes. Prepare minutes in the format outlined in Attachment 2. Number your FMB
minutes by fiscal year (FY). For example, number the third meeting held in FY08 as FY08-3.
AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006                                                                13


   9.1. Provide timely financial data at FMB meetings. Do not show data to the FMB that is
   more than 30 days old unless it is for comparison purposes.
   9.2. Ensure your FMB minutes are signed and distributed to FMB members no later than 30
   calendar days following the meeting date.
   9.3. As a minimum, your FMB minutes will summarize substantive discussion pertaining to
   each of its specific responsibilities (see paragraph 7.4) and include:
       9.3.1. Complete rationale for all annual reprogramming action between Group CCs to
       include both the losing and gaining CC.
       9.3.2. A copy of the briefing charts (file copy only).
       9.3.3. A prioritized list of current year investment (3080) unfunded requirements. For
       AMC bases that manage TWCF funds, include any current year TWCF Capital unfunded
       requirements in the FMB minutes.
   9.4. You must provide a copy of your FMB minutes to HQ AMC/FMA via E-mail at
   amc/fma@scott.af.mil.
10. O&M 3400 and MFH Quarterly Adjustments.
   10.1. You may request quarterly adjustments through your HQ AMC/FMAO base analyst no
   later than the fifth day of the last month of each quarter, when possible.
   10.2. You must maintain sufficient quarterly authority to cover obligations plus
   commitments.
11. TWCF AVPOL Monthly Report. The TWCF AVPOL report for AMC C-5/C-17 aircraft
must arrive at HQ AMC/FMAT no later than the 15th calendar day of each month, based on data
provided by the wing Operations RA or the Wing Refueling Document Control Officer
(WRDCO), as appropriate. A sample of this report is directly available on the AMC Budget
Policy                                      CoP                                          at
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=AM-FM-BH-
01-5&Filter=AM-FM-BH-01. Scroll down on this link until you find the title ―TWCF AVPOL
Data Sheet (AMCI 65-601).‖ A monthly AVPOL report for AMC O&M Aircraft (C-130/KC-
10/KC-135/C-40) is not required.
12. Fiscal Year-End Close-Out. HQ AMC/FMA will issue annual fiscal year-end close-out
guidance outlining SAF/FMB, MAJCOM, and base procedures, responsibilities, and reports.
You can access this guidance after it is released on the AMC/FMA Financial Management CoP,
at    https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-FM-MJ-11,              under
―Document Management.‖ Bases should establish a committee addressing close-out actions, etc.,
in May of each year.
13. Funding Procedures for Base Investment Equipment.
   13.1. Air Force and AMC Organizations Supported by AMC Host Bases.
       13.1.1. AMC units will submit investment equipment requirements to the base FMA
       office. Air Force tenant organizations will also submit their investment equipment
       requirements to the base FMA office as directed by AFI 65-601, Volume 1, chapter 7,
       paragraph 7.6.2. The FMA officer and the Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS)
 14                                                           AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006


       Commander/Chief of Supply will jointly staff these requirements. FMAs will ensure that
       each organization has the opportunity to submit their requirements into the base’s formal
       budget submission. The base LRS is responsible to ensure that requested items are
       authorized and that identification, pricing, and classification are correct. You should
       validate all items as having a prime national stock number with assigned budget code Z,
       as authorized in the allowance source code (ASC) or qualifying as replacement real
       property installed equipment (RPIE). Requirements must also meet the criteria for 3080
       base procured investment equipment (BPIE) (BPAC 845010 only) in accordance with
       AFI 65-601, Volume 1, chapter 8. Additionally, review each item to determine eligibility
       under the fast payback capital investment program (FASCAP) or productivity investment
       fund (PIF) in accordance with AFI 38-301, Productivity Enhancing Capital Investment
       Programs.
       13.1.2. The FWG prioritizes the validated 3080 requirements and FMA officer presents
       the FWG recommended priority sequence to the FMB for final approval of the
       installation’s investment equipment (3080) budget. The FMA office then submits the
       3080 budget to HQ AMC/FMA.
   13.2. AMC units Located on Non-AMC Air Force Bases.
       13.2.1. Your 3080 BPAC 845010 requirements are a host base funding responsibility.
       13.2.2. Identify all 3080 BPAC 845010 requirements to your host base FMA office in
       accordance with their procedures.
14. Foreign Military Sales (FMS) Administration Funding. AMC organizations that control
FMS Administration funding will recoup or reimburse all FMS costs on a monthly basis to the
correct appropriation. AMC-financed appropriations must not subsidize any FMS administrative
costs. Forward any change to projected FMS obligations to HQ AMC/FMF, 402 Scott Drive,
Unit 1K1, Scott AFB IL 62225-5311.
15. Resource Management System (RMS) Training. Commanders are responsible for
establishing and enforcing effective internal controls to ensure resources are protected and
financial transactions are properly recorded in the accounting records. Without proper internal
controls we cannot obtain clean audit reports of our financial statements. This can result in losses
of assets and payments for goods and services not properly received.
   15.1. At base level, commanders rely on RAs to fulfill financial management responsibilities
   at the lowest level, often on a part time basis and sometimes without any extensive prior
   financial experience. RAs will often be accountable officials and their commanders must
   ensure they receive the training they need to meet their responsibilities. HQ USAF/CV
   memorandum dated 29 Feb 00 directs base and installation commanders to take the following
   actions to ensure proper training of RAs.
       15.1.1. Unit commanders will appoint all RAs to their position in writing so these key
       personnel are clearly identified.
       15.1.2. Unit commanders will ensure that each RA’s supervisor, with base/installation
       comptroller assistance, determines which tasks must be performed and at what level of
       proficiency.
AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006                                                                              15


       15.1.3. Base/installation comptrollers will determine what training is needed for RA task
       proficiency. The RA’s supervisor and the comptroller will be responsible for ensuring that all
       necessary training takes place. We recommend that each base/installation comptroller develop a
       resource management task list that best serves the financial operations at that location. A list of
       financial management training guides is available at Air Force Knowledge Management web site:
       https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-FM-AF-11-
       1&Filter=OO-FM-AF-11. Another recommended training site is the FMA/ALO Knowledge
       Now CoP at https://km.saffm.hq.af.mil/ASPs/docman/docmain.asp?Filter=OO-FM-AF-01.
       15.1.4. Unit commanders will ensure that group and squadron RCMs and all RAs begin their
       initial training within 30 days after appointment and complete it within 90 days after their
       appointment. The comptroller will provide a letter or certificate indicating initial RMS training
       has been received. Additionally, the comptroller will develop a training plan to ensure all required
       task proficiency training is completed within one year of appointment.
       15.1.5. Follow-On Training. Follow-on training for RCMs, RAs, and other financial
       management personnel may be accomplished through briefings during financial
       management committee meetings or through formal follow-on training classes.
       Wing/center financial analysis personnel are responsible for periodic staff assistance
       visits (SAV) to field units. During the SAV, review the Organization Funds Manager’s
       (OFM's) performance and provide additional training as required.
   15.2. SAF/FM has developed several web-based courses to aid in training of RAs.
   Base/installation comptrollers should utilize these courses and all other available means,
   including training provided by the base FMA office, to meet these requirements. See
   Attachment 1 , Web Sites, to access these on-line training courses.
   15.3. The base FMA office will ensure that RAs are providing appropriate training to their
   CCMs and will assist the RAs in providing CCM training, if requested, in accordance with
   AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapter 11, paragraph 11.2.3.
   15.4. AFI 65-601, Volume 2, chapter 11, provides additional guidance on RMS training.
   15.5. Requests for Acquisition of Services. RAs must follow guidance contained in
   SAF/AQC/FMB memorandum dated 10 Mar 2004, Subject: Interim Procurement Guidance
   for Resource Advisors Requesting the Acquisition of Services, to ensure compliance with
   Department of Defense (DoD) objectives. You may access a copy of this guidance on the
   AMC/FM                  Budget                Policy               CoP                at
   https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=AM-FM-BH-01, under
   ―Budget Policy Notices.‖ Note: For guidance on performance-based contracts, refer to AFI
   63-124, Performance-Based Services Acquisition (PBSA).
16. Inter/Intra Service Support Agreement (ISSA) Management. The base FMA office
plays an important role in the management of ISSAs, as they have the responsibility to validate
the costs and methodology used to estimate receiver reimbursable support. The FMA office must
ensure all reimbursable costs are captured and accounted for in each ISSA. While the various
unit ISSA monitors should identify those reimbursable costs associated with their work centers,
the FMA office needs to ensure these individuals possess the required skills to cost out receiver
reimbursable support. AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures, paragraphs 2.6., 4.3., and
5.4., provides the responsibilities of the FMA office for ISSAs, to include performing an annual
budget review and comparing collected reimbursements to the actual calculations identified in
 16                                                     AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006


the ISSAs. A revised Funding Annex, signed by both the supplier and receiver FMs, will be
attached to the ISSA. See SAF/FM memorandum dated 5 January 2004, Subject: Annual Budget
Review for Support Agreements, and AFI 65-601 Volume 1, paragraph 7.3.3. (et seqq.) for
additional guidance. You may access a copy of the SAF/FM memorandum on the AMC/FM
Budget Policy CoP at https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=AM-
FM-BH-01, under ―Budget Policy Notices.‖

17. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 3215, IT/NSS Requirements Documents (CSRD)




                                         MARK ANTHONY BROWN, Colonel, USAF
                                         Director, Financial Management and Comptroller
AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006                                                          17


                                    ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-213, Comptroller Operations Under Emergency Conditions
AFI 25-201, Support Agreement Procedures
AFI 38-301, Productivity Enhancing Capital Investment Programs
AFI 63-124, Performance-Based Services Acquisition
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures
AFI 65-601, Volume 2, Budget Management for Operations
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFPD 65-6, Budget
DFAS-DE Interim Guidance, Accounting for Obligations
DoDFMR 7000.14, Volume 11B, Reimbursable Operations Policy and Procedures—Defense
Working Capital Fund
DoDI 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support
AMCI 65-602, TWCF Budget Guidance and Procedures
AMCI 65-605, Responsibility Center/Cost Center (RC/CC) and Work Center (WC) Codes
AMCPAM 65-603, Budget Operating Guidance
Web Sites
Air Force Knowledge Management ALO-FMA Training Guides:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-FM-AF-
11-1&Filter=OO-FM-AF-11
Air Force RDS: https://afrims.amc.af.mil
HQ AMC TWCF Monthly AVPOL Report:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=AM-FM-BH-
01-5&Filter=AM-FM-BH-01
HQ AMC/FM, Budget Policy CoP:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=AM-FM-BH-01
HQ AMC/FMA CoP: https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-FM-
MJ-11
HQ AMC/FMAO web page on the Air Force Portal:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/DocMan/DOCMain.asp?Filter=OO-FM-MJ-
11&FolderID=OO-FM-MJ-11-20&Tab=0
 18                                                AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006


HQ AMC TWCF Monthly AVPOL Report:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=AM-FM-BH-
01-5&Filter=AM-FM-BH-01
SAF/FM ALO/FMA Web:
https://km.saffm.hq.af.mil/ASPs/docman/docmain.asp?Filter=OO-FM-AF-01

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A-E—Architect-Engineer
AEP—Accrued Expenditures Paid
AEU—Accrued Expenditures Unpaid
AF—Air Force
AFAFO—Air Force Accounting and Finance Office
AFDD—Air Force Data Dictionary
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFM—Automated Funds Management
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMC/CC—Air Mobility Command/Commander
AMC/CV—Air Mobility Command/Vice Commander
AMCG/B—Air Mobility Command Group/Budget
AMCI—Air Mobility Command Instruction
AMCFSS—Air Mobility Command Financial Support Squadron
AMOW—Air Mobility Operations Wing
ARA—Alternate Resource Advisor
ASC—Allowance Source Code
AVPOL—Aviation Petroleum, Oil, and Lubricants
BA—Budget Activity
BAB—Budget Advisory Board
BER—Budget Execution Report
BPAC—Budget Project Account Code
BPIE—Base Procured Investment Equipment
CAM—Centralized Asset Management
CC—Cost Center
AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006                                                        19


CCM—Cost Center Manager
CE—Civil Engineering
CECMC—Civilian Employment Cost Management Committee
CoP—Community of Practice
CRIS—Commanders Resource Integration System
CSRD—C4 Systems Requirements Documents
CWDE—Chemical Warfare Defense Equipment
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service
DLR—Depot Level Reparable
DoDFMR—Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation
EA—Economic Analysis
EEIC—Element of Expense and Investment Code
e.g.—exempli gratia (for example, such as)
etc.—et cetera (and so on)
FAS/FES—Fuels Automated System/Fuels Enterprise Service
FASCAP—Fast Payback Capital Investment Program
FM—Financial Management and Comptroller
FMA—Financial Management and Comptroller – Financial Analysis; also Financial
Management and Analysis (Wing level)
FMAO—Financial Management and Comptroller – Financial Analysis – Financial Operations
(O&M) Branch
FMAT—Financial Management and Comptroller – Financial Analysis – TWCF Operations
Branch
FMB—Financial Management Board
FMF—Financial Management and Comptroller – Financial Services
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
FWG—Financial Working Group
FY—Fiscal Year
GSD—General Support Division
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HRMB—Human Resources Management Board
i.e.—id est (that is)
ISSA—Intra/Inter Service Support Agreement (formerly Host-Tenant Support Agreement
(HTSA))
 20                                                   AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006


JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
MAJCOM—Major Command
MC—Minor Construction
MFH—Military Family Housing
MFR—Memorandum for Record
MR—Maintenance and Repair
MSD—Material Support Division
NSPS—National Security Personnel System
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OBAN—Operating Budget Account Number
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PBSA—Performance-Based Services Acquisition
PEC—Program Element Code
PIF—Productivity Investment Fund
PBAS—Program Budget Accounting System
RA—Resource Advisor
RC—Responsibility Center
RC/CC—Responsibility Center/Cost Center
RCM—Responsibility Center Manager
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RPIE—Real Property Installed Equipment
RPMC—Real Property Maintenance by Contract
RMS—Resource Management System
SC—Sales Code
SRM—Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization
SRMC—Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization by Contract
SSS—Staff Summary Sheet
TWCF—Transportation Working Capital Fund
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspection
UOO—Undelivered Orders Outstanding
WC—Work Center
AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006                        21


USTRANSCOM—United States Transportation Command
WRDCO—Wing Refueling Document Control Officer
 22                                                         AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006


                                      ATTACHMENT 2
                   FORMAT FOR PREPARATION OF FMB MINUTES

MEMORANDUM FOR Date:

FROM: XXX WING/FMA

SUBJECT: Financial Management Board Meeting, FY06-3

1. Place:

2. Time:

3. Chairperson: Indicate grade, name, and office symbol.

4. Members Present: Indicate grade, name, and office symbol. When alternates or nonmembers
attend for an appointed member, please designate in parenthesis who they are representing, e.g.,
375 SG/RM Col Smith (for Col Jones).

5. Members Absent: Indicate grade, name, and office symbol of those primary members absent
and not represented.

6. Others Present: Indicate grade, name, and office symbol of visitors.
DISCUSSION: As a minimum, minutes will include discussion of areas in paragraph 7.4.
including BA program versus execution analysis summary. Minutes should also indicate an
informative recapitulation of all other items discussed at the meeting.

NOTE: FMB minutes will be signed by the recorder and the commander or chairperson.

Attachment: Unfunded Requirements
AMCI65-601 16 OCTOBER 2006                  23


                             Attachment 3
                              DELETED
