BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 AMC INSTRUCTION 10-204
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                                8 FEBRUARY 2005

                                                                                             Operations

                                                             AIR MOBILITY COMMAND EXERCISE
                                                                                  PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AMC/A37TX (Lt Col Bart R. Rhodes)                                 Certified by: HQ AMC/A37T
                                                                            (Colonel John T. Clatanoff)
Supersedes AMCI 10-204, 1 July 1997                                                           Pages: 19
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction guides AMC implementation of the Air Force Exercise Program (AFEP). It directs com-
pliance with the Air Force Remedial Action Program (AFRAP) as defined in AFI 10-204, Readiness
Exercises and After-Action Reporting Program. It does not limit a commander's rights or responsibilities
to plan, conduct, or evaluate readiness and training exercises. Use this instruction with Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS), Air Force, commander, and major command (MAJCOM) exercise docu-
ments. The reports in AMCI 10-204 are exempt from licensing according to AFI 33-324, The Information
Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public, and InterAgency Air Force
Information Collections (formerly AFR 4-38). This instruction also applies to Air National Guard (ANG)
and Air Force Reserve Command units and members.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Revised to combine AMCI 10-201, Air Mobility Command Exercise Program, and AMCI 10-204, AMC
CJCS Exercise Steering Committee. Reflects formation of HQ AMC/A37TX, Exercise Training Branch,
and 18 AF/TACC/XOP, Global Readiness Directorate. Contains expanded portions addressing AMC par-
ticipation in Air Force After Action Reporting System (AFAARS) and Joint Lessons Learned Program
(JLLP). A bar ( | ) indicated a revision from the previous edition.
2                                                                   AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005


                                               Chapter 1

                    PURPOSE, OBJECTIVES, AND PLANNING GUIDANCE

1.1. Purpose. This instruction supports the Air Force Exercise Program (AFEP) as described in AFI
10-204. It defines the exercise planning process, establishes training requirements, and sets after action
reporting guidelines.

1.2. Objectives. The AMC goal is to achieve maximum benefits from exercises. This will enhance readi-
ness, boost combat capability, streamline procedures, and identify weaknesses. A regular cycle of plan-
ning, exercising, and reviewing lessons learned will keep AMC prepared for meeting wartime and
contingency commitments.

1.3. Planning Guidelines. Refer to AFI 10-204 for AFEP guidelines.
AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                            3


                                             Chapter 2

                                       RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. HQ AMC:
  2.1.1. AMC provides support to exercises sponsored by all levels of the Department of Defense.
  2.1.2. The HQ AMC CJCS Exercise Steering Committee reviews CJCS exercise schedules and pro-
  poses AMC training objectives based on the Joint Mission Essential Tasks (JMETs). Functional area
  managers at HQ AMC participate in the steering committee process by developing and implementing
  training objectives, looking for opportunities to exercise tactics, techniques and procedures in AFTTP
  3-1 and AFFTP 3-3. Upon approval, the objectives are given to the Geographic Combatant Com-
  mander (GCC) theater sponsor through USTRANSCOM or the Air Staff for inclusion in the exercise.
  The Committee will perform the following functions:
     2.1.2.1. Coordinate AMC forces participation as a training audience in CJCS exercises for the
     upcoming fiscal year (FY) and 5 subsequent FYs. The upcoming FY and 2 subsequent FYs should
     be scheduled in enough detail to indicate level of participation and AMC units that may deploy.
     2.1.2.2. Establish CJCS budget requirements, to support all AMC force participation in CJCS
     exercises and their respective planning conferences, for the upcoming POM cycle (6 years).
     2.1.2.3. Establish a list of specific CJCS exercises for development of AMC training objectives
     for the next FY.
     2.1.2.4. For each selected CJCS exercise, establish and propose training objectives that support
     the Joint Mission Essential Task List (JMETL), or that support "AMC only" requirements.
     2.1.2.5. Meet quarterly to review selected CJCS exercises relative to AMC force list, PE 28011F
     budget and training objectives.
     2.1.2.6. Serve as the accountability mechanism for proper AMC CJCS exercise force listing, bud-
     geting, objectives development, and lessons learned reporting.
  2.1.3. HQ AMC/A37TX (Aircrew Operations & Training Division Exercise Branch) will perform the
  following functions:
     2.1.3.1. Serve as the AMC manager and point-of-contact for CJCS long-range exercise planning
     2.1.3.2. Provide oversight for AMC participation as training audience in exercises
     2.1.3.3. Plan AMC employment activity in CJCS exercises
     2.1.3.4. Schedule and record Exercise Steering Committee meetings
     2.1.3.5. Disseminate exercise schedules and information to AMC organizations along with coor-
     dinating AMC attendance at planning conferences for major exercises
     2.1.3.6. Conduct the command's Remedial Action Program (RAP)
     2.1.3.7. Collect and distribute lessons learned from contingencies and exercises
     2.1.3.8. Coordinate the Joint Training Plan for AMC
     2.1.3.9. Collect and maintain Exercise Control Group Material
4                                                                     AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005


    2.1.4. Eighteenth Air Force/Tanker Airlift Control Center (18 AF/TACC) accomplishes the planning
    and execution of strategic airlift for deployment and redeployment of forces participating in CJCS
    exercises. The Expeditionary Mobility Task Forces (EMTFs) may be tasked to augment 18 AF/TACC
    in the deployment and redeployment planning and execution phases. AMC/A37TX plans AMC exer-
    cise employment activity. 18 AF/TACC is the execution/approval authority for active duty unit partic-
    ipation in exercises through the scheduling process and will provide oversight of ‘notional’
    employment activities planned. 18 AF/TACC may direct wing/unit participation in exercises. HQ
    AFRC and ANG/XO will direct Air Reserve Component (ARC) unit participation in coordination
    with 18 AF/TACC.
    2.1.5. HQ AMC functional area managers help plan, execute, and evaluate major exercises. They also
    participate in the command RAP. HQ AFRC and ANG/XOD functional managers will designate ARC
    units to participate in specific exercises. Each HQ AMC functional area manager will establish a POC
    for exercise planning and coordinating. Include risk management principles to reduce potential for
    mishap (see AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management Program, and AFPAM 91-215, Operational
    Risk Management Implementation and Execution (forthcoming).
    2.1.6. The Air Mobility Warfare Center (AMWC) interfaces with the AMC exercise program through
    the curriculum development process and planning BLUE FLAG exercises. As individual courses and
    lesson plans are updated and BLUE FLAG exercises are planned, command lesson learned are incor-
    porated by instructors and guest speakers during the research phase. This interface ensures course dis-
    cipline taught at the AMWC and BLUE FLAG exercises reflect command doctrine and policy derived
    from exercise lessons learned.

2.2. EMTFs, Wings and Units:
    2.2.1. Units should be involved in exercise scenarios as much as possible. Avoid viewing unit partic-
    ipation in exercises as limited to providing airlift or air refueling; look for opportunities to exercise
    AFTTP 3-series and AFOTTP 2-series tactics, techniques and procedures. Include Operations Secu-
    rity (OPSEC) and other Information Operations (IO) initiatives in AMC and local exercises to identify
    possible AMC vulnerabilities. Record lessons learned and review them as part of your exercise cycle.
    2.2.2. AMC tasked organizations will brief all participating personnel in an exercise prior to depart-
    ing home station. The briefing will include, but is not limited to, general concept of operations, AMC
    objectives, mission schedules, operating locations, OPSEC procedures and crew procedures.
    2.2.3. Active duty units participating in HQ AMC-directed exercises are required to submit After
    Action Reports (AAR) to HQ AMC/A37TX. ARC units will submit AARs (if ARC coalition forces
    are used, designated lead units will collect and consolidate all AARs). Units will develop a Remedial
    Action Program in conjunction with their exercise program (see Chapter 4).
    2.2.4. Local exercises should identify specific goals and objectives in order to optimize training.
    Comply with AFI 10-204 and this instruction and adapt the guidance to individual requirements. Plan
    and conduct locally generated exercises in which all tasked Unit Type Codes (UTCs) listed in the
    AFWUS UTC availability are processed for deployment at least once each year. Participation in
    higher headquarters-directed exercises that task AFWUS UTCs may also satisfy this requirement.
AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                               5


                                                Chapter 3

                                        EXERCISE PROCESS

3.1. General. The joint community sponsors hundreds of exercises each year, and AMC has some partic-
ipation in the majority. AMC participates in CJCS exercises to provide air mobility support to Geograph-
ical Combatant Commander’s, training for AMC forces, and education concerning air mobility processes
and capabilities for the joint community. Each exercise’s scope, size, location, and scenario dictate the
appropriate level of planning and participation by AMC headquarters staff, 18th Air Force, TACC, wings,
and units. Unit participation, both active and ARC, may range from single, small units (e.g., combat cam-
era squadron) to core airlift, air refueling, or air mobility wings. Exercise OPRs vary based on functional
area involvement. This chapter outlines policies and procedures common to most exercises requiring
AMC involvement.

3.2. Exercise Steering Committee (ESC). This organization, composed of AMC staff personnel, con-
venes to develop and coordinate training for AMC in CJCS exercises. The ESC is the approving authority
for decisions regarding AMC level of participation and objectives in future exercises. Committee mem-
bership will consist of the following functional managers: HQ AMC/A3R, A31C, A31M, A33, A34Y,
A35, A36W, A37T, A39, A15, A22, A43, A45, A54, A59, A63X, A67, A7X, A88, IGP, PAX, SEF, SEG,
SGX, SFO, 3FIR/A5, 18 AF/TACC/RFG, 18 AF/TACC/RFR, 18 AF/TACC/XOC, 18 AF/TACC/XOO,
18 AF/TACC/XOP, and HQ USAF MOS Det 1. Additionally, each member will appoint an action officer
to attend the working group meetings that precede regular ESC meetings. DA3-1 chairs and HQ AMC/
A37T administers the committee. The chairperson may appoint supplementary members as required.
Meeting agenda will be forwarded to members five (5) working days prior to the meeting. Meeting min-
utes will be published and forwarded to all members after each ESC meeting.
   3.2.1. HQ AMC/A37TX will brief the ESC on:
       3.2.1.1. Changes in CJCS exercise AMC force lists and budget requirements
       3.2.1.2. Status of objectives for unexecuted exercises
       3.2.1.3. Status of Joint Lessons Learned Program (JLLP) for completed exercises
       3.2.1.4. Proposed and approved objectives of upcoming CJCS exercises
       3.2.1.5. High-visibility upcoming exercises for the attention of the command staff. Exercise OPRs
       may be called upon to provide this briefing; HQ AMC/A37TX will provide presentation format.
   3.2.2. ESC members represent their area’s interests in the exercise process and keep subordinate
   agencies advised of pertinent issues. Functional areas with regular exercise participation will develop
   a two-year exercise schedule to facilitate planning, funding, and training. These functional areas
   include IGP, SGP, A63X, 18 AF/TACC/XOOK, and any others designated by the ESC chairman.

3.3. Objective Development. ESC members will provide training objectives and supported JMETs.
Objectives should be specific, taking into account current issues and past experience. HQ AMC/A3 will
submit approved committee training and exercise objectives to the applicable theater through
USTRANSCOM J3 for inclusion in the overall exercise scenario. This submission should be prior to sce-
nario scripting by the, theater which could be as early as two years prior to the exercise start. Training
6                                                                     AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005


objectives approved by the AMC CJCS Exercise Steering Committee are listed in the exercise Operations
Orders (OPORDs).

3.4. Planning Conferences. Most major exercises have three planning conferences: the Initial Planning
Conference (IPC), the Mid-Planning Conference (MPC), and the Final Planning Conference (FPC). These
conferences provide a forum for coordinating objectives, scenarios, and force lists. AMC representation
depends on functional area participation. HQ AMC/A37TX/A67E and 18 AF/TACC/XOP will coordinate
prior to IPCs for major exercises to determine conference attendance.

3.5. AMC Inspector General (IG). The IG periodically accomplishes Expeditionary Operational
Readiness Inspections (EORI) during CJCS exercises. Prior to each theater’s long-range scheduling con-
ference, HQ AMC/IG personnel will coordinate with A37TX and match up future EORI activity with
appropriate exercise scenarios. After coordination with HQ AMC/A37TX, the Exercise Steering Commit-
tee, units to be inspected, and approval by the GCC theater, units are force listed against target exercises.
Short-range coordination in the planning phase is accomplished among the IG Planning and Scheduling
Division (HQ AMC/IGP), 18 AF/TACC/XOB/XOO/XOP, and the GCC theater exercise plans office. HQ
AMC/IG personnel should attend the appropriate exercise planning conferences. During the execution
phase, HQ AMC/IG team representation is added to the joint exercise control mechanism.

3.6. Coordination with Units. 18 AF/TACC plans mobility support for CJCS exercises and directs units
to participate via Warning Order (WARNORD), Execute Order (EXORD), Operation Order (OPORD),
the normal scheduling process (including Air Mobility Taskings and Air Tasking Orders), or short notice
taskings. ANG and HQ AFRC will coordinate and schedule all ARC assets. Once individual units have
been identified for participation in HQ AMC exercises, HQ AMC functional area managers will ensure
units know the AMC objectives for that exercise. Units are not limited to the listed objectives but should
also develop unit-specific objectives to optimize the training opportunities available. HQ AFRC, ANG,
and HQ AMC/A3R will ensure participating ARC units develop their own training objectives and provide
those training objectives to the sponsoring command via AMC.

3.7. Exercise Control Groups. Planning and execution of Command Post Exercises (CPX) require a
coordinated, headquarters-wide effort. This is accomplished through Exercise Control Groups (ECG).
Functional managers will provide representatives to ECGs as required. Highly experienced and motivated
individuals should be appointed to ECGs on an as needed basis depending on the nature and scope of
AMC active duty and GS participation in the exercise, and AMC training and exercise objectives. Since
the quality of exercise training depends largely on the quality of the ECG’s preparation, the ECG will per-
form various tasks, to include, but not limited to:
    3.7.1. Coordinate command exercise planning directives and player instructions
    3.7.2. Develop the AMC exercise scenario and STARTEX SITREP, when required
    3.7.3. Draft Master Scenario Events List (MSEL)
    3.7.4. Oversee exercise play
    3.7.5. Develop post-exercise evaluation reports
    3.7.6. Provide guidance to exercise observer cell
    3.7.7. Submit control documents on CJCS exercises to A37TX
AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                                 7


3.8. OPLAN 8044 Exercises. Several times HQ AMC and Task Force 294, in conjunction with
USSTRATCOM, conduct OPLAN 8044 FTX/CPX exercises. These exercises provide opportunities for
all OPLAN 8044 tasked units to participate. AMC strategic exercises will coincide with USSTRATCOM
exercises whenever practical. The Strategic Response Cell (SRC) will form and operate in the designated
Top Secret area for all AMC OPLAN 8044 exercises and all USSTRATCOM exercises involving Task
Force 294. AMC units with an OPLAN 8044 commitment will exercise and evaluate a strategic genera-
tion at least once per year. Unit planners requiring specific events to be exercised should submit them to
18 AF/TACC/XOOKN (Task Force 294) for approval and coordination with the appropriate agencies.
Waiver requests for strategic exercises will be coordinated through Task Force 294.
   3.8.1. AMC participates in the following USSTRATCOM exercises:
       3.8.1.1. GLOBAL LIGHTNING: A multi-MAJCOM exercise developed in coordinated segments
       to test every facet of OPLAN 8044 tanker operations. This exercise requires maximum participa-
       tion from all units, active duty, ANG and AFRC.
       3.8.1.2. GLOBAL THUNDER and GLOBAL STORM are other USSTRATCOM exercises that
       may involve participation by Task Force 294 and assigned units.
   3.8.2. Unit level of participation in USSTRATCOM exercises is under the following guidelines:
       3.8.2.1. OPLAN 8044 tasked units will participate at the CPX level in any USSTRATCOM exer-
       cise.
       3.8.2.2. GLOBAL LIGHTNING: Active duty units scheduled with OPLAN 8044 committed
       tankers are required to participate at the FTX level with all available aircraft. Units without
       OPLAN 8044 committed tankers but with an OPLAN 8044 commitment in their DOC statements
       will be ready to fulfill backfill requirements or TNO/DPO taskings.
       3.8.2.3. ANG and AFRC units with OPLAN 8044 commitments will perform in exercises as any
       similarly committed active duty unit. The unit commander will determine unit capability and level
       of participation in USSTRATCOM exercises. They will participate at the CPX level as a mini-
       mum. ARC units are highly encouraged to participate at the FTX level during GLOBAL LIGHT-
       NING.
       3.8.2.4. If a unit participates in an exercise at the FTX level and the unit commander's goals are
       met, the unit may locally alter the posture of the unit's aircraft and crews (e.g., releasing crews to
       telephone stand-by until exercise termination) and continue the exercise at the CPX level. Units
       should plan to play at the FTX level during GLOBAL LIGHTNING exercises until their tasked
       aircraft have been generated and have completed an engine start exercise.
       3.8.2.5. Units that FTX will assemble OPLAN 8044 support teams IAW local procedures,
       COMAMC OPLAN 8044-XX and all other applicable guidance, and will establish connectivity
       with USSTRATCOM and Commander Task Force Tanker (TFC 294).
       3.8.2.6. All Forward Located Alert Generation (FLAG) and dispersal deployments for these exer-
       cises may be simulated. Units will generate up to ready-to-start engines and simulate deploying
       aircraft.
       3.8.2.7. All participating units, including ARC forces, will operate command post functions on a
       24-hour basis throughout the exercise.
       3.8.2.8. Scheduled air refueling commitments will be honored.
8                                                                       AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005


    3.8.3. Unit reporting will be through the Strategic Force Accounting Module (SFAM), the "R" data
    base, unless directed otherwise by the exercise POC. All participating units will submit all required
    reports (e.g., FORGEN, SITREPs, Support Team Status, and Initial Launch Reports) as required by
    USSTRATCOM Directive 501-14, (S) Force Management Information System Users Manual (U).
    3.8.4. Units participating in USSTRATCOM exercises will submit single observation lessons learned
    to HQ AMC/A37TX within 10 working days of exercise termination (see Chapter 4). HQ AMC/
    A37TX will forward to HQ AMC/A35S.

3.9. USAF/MAJCOM Exercises. HQ AMC or tasked units may plan involvement in CJCS, USAF and
MAJCOM exercises. Attendance at exercise planning conferences provides participants the opportunity
to develop and coordinate the exercise scenario. Policy is to maximize AMC training in these exercises.
Conferees must be prepared to be an advocate for AMC command and unit objectives. Contact HQ AMC/
A37TX or the appropriate HQ AMC POC if you have questions, suggestions for improvement, or
after-action reports.
    3.9.1. RED/GREEN/MAPLE FLAG Exercises. AMC forces, which include 18 AF/EMTFs partici-
    pate in these ACC-sponsored exercises in order to train in this threat environment and to support other
    participants. HQ AMC/A39 plans AMC airlift participation in RED/GREEN/MAPLE FLAG exer-
    cises. 18 AF/TACC/XOBK coordinates tanker unit participation (active duty and ARC) in RED/
    GREEN/MAPLE FLAG exercises. Tanker planning is conducted by AMWC/OL-B at Nellis AFB in
    conjunction with lead unit planners. Units tasked to participate in these Flag exercises will attend the
    associated planning conferences and are responsible for providing their unit specific training objec-
    tives and goals. HQ AMC/A39 will present command availability and general scenario development
    for RED/GREEN/MAPLE FLAGs at the yearly planning conference sponsored by HQ ACC/A35E.
    3.9.2. BLUE FLAG Exercises. USAF MOS Det 1 will support the planning and execution of up to
    three BLUE FLAGs per year. This support will included attending planning conferences and the
    weekly planning meetings held by the 505 ECS at Hurlburt. The MOS Det 1 will assist the 505 ECS
    with scenario development and MESL inputs. During execution Det 1 will provide up to 3 exercise
    controllers to work in the control cell at Hurlburt, and at least one individual to assist in the execution/
    evaluation at the primary BLUE FLAG location. HQ AMC/A31 will define AMC’s level of play
    (AMD size and experience) A31 will publish all of the messages and task the AMC participants.
    USAF MOS Det 1 will write necessary after action reports. MOS Det 1 will further participate in
    BLUE FLAGs as well as other AOC exercises depending on instructor availability. This support may
    include Observer/Trainer, Players and/or White Cell personnel on request.

3.10. Security Force Participation. Active duty AMC Security Force mobility support forces will par-
ticipate annually in an off-station JCS exercise, Joint Readiness Training Center exercise, or MAJCOM
unit training deployment, i.e., SILVER FLAG ALPHA or PHOENIX ACE. Additionally, AMC Security
Police forces may be tasked to provide force protection for AMC units and assets participating in exer-
cises.

3.11. Base Full Spectrum Threat Response (FSTR) Exercises. The Exercise and Evaluation Team
chief will develop a two-year local exercise schedule to facilitate forecasting, funding, programming,
training, and manpower requirements. Refer to AFI 10-2501, Full Spectrum Threat Response Planning
and Operations, for policy and guidance for planning, conducting, and evaluating base FSTR exercises.
AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                            9


3.12. USAF Weapons School Mission Employment (ME) Phase. AMC tanker and 18 AF/EMTFs par-
ticipation in the ME Phase is planned and directed by the AMWC. Air refueling participation is scheduled
by 18 AF/TACC/XOOK. The AMWC is responsible for specific training goals and objectives.
10                                                                    AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005


                                                 Chapter 4

                          AFTER ACTION REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

4.1. Joint After Action Reporting System (JAARS) and Air Force After Action Reporting System
(AFAARS) . CJCSI 3150.25A, Joint After-Action Reporting System, and AFI 10-204 contain procedures
for submitting After Action Reports (AAR). Units participating in CJCS exercises, other joint exercises,
Air Force designated exercises, and real-world operations are requested to submit AARs to HQ AMC/
A37TX within 60 days of ENDEX.

4.2. After Action Reports. AARs are used to meet the requirements of the JAARS and AFAARS. AMC
units participating in exercises or operations as defined in paragraph 4.1. are required to submit AARs to
HQ AMC/A37TX. AARs from participating units will be included in the HQ AMC AAR for each exer-
cise and forwarded to HQ USAF or USTRANSCOM, as appropriate. If available, use Joint Lessons
Learned Program (JLLP) or JLLP Instructional Input Program (JIIP) software to submit after action
reports. See Figure 4.1. for JLLP after action report format.

4.3. Joint Lessons Learned Program (JLLP). Each limitation or deficiency identified in an AAR
should also be described in an individual lesson learned attached to the AAR. Other lessons learned may
also be submitted as appropriate. Use the JLLP format for all lessons learned. Forward lessons learned
which cannot be resolved at the wing level to HQ AMC/A37TX. Lessons learned which are resolved at
wing level, but which should be included in the AMC lessons learned data base may also be forwarded to
HQ AMC/A37TX. Include corrective action taken in the comments section of these lessons learned.
Appropriate OPRs will be assigned at HQ AMC to resolve outstanding issues. Issues which cannot be
resolved at HQ AMC will be forwarded to HQ USAF or USTRANSCOM, as appropriate. If available,
use JLLP or JIIP software to submit lessons learned. See Figure 4.2. for the JLLP lessons learned format.
     4.3.1. The HQ AMC lessons learned data base incorporates JLLP and AARs from CJCS exercises,
     Air Force-designated exercises, and real-world operations. Regular meetings are held at HQ AMC to
     review the status of open lessons learned (see Chapter 5). The Exercise Steering Committee uses
     information from AARs and JLLP when establishing objectives for future exercises to validate the
     corrective actions for past problems. The JLLP software and AMC lessons learned database are avail-
     able from HQ AMC/A37TX.
     4.3.2. Many lessons learned or problems encountered by a unit during an exercise or operation are not
     significant enough to merit notification or resolution by higher headquarters. This does not mean,
     however, that these lessons learned should not be recorded. On the contrary, units should have all les-
     sons learned recorded along with the corrective action.
     4.3.3. Any member of AMC with a legitimate request for JLLP/AAR reports for lessons learned top-
     ics can contact HQ AMC/A37TX, amc-A37TX@scott.af.mil, DSN 779-4395 to make their request.
     A37TX will instruct the contractor who maintains the AMC JLLP database to conduct a search. How-
     ever, if someone from outside of the command makes a request, it must first be coordinated through
     the AMC/CV for approval prior to forwarding outside of AMC.

4.4. After Action Reviews (Hot Washes). HQ AMC/A37TX is the command OPR for coordinating
after action reviews directed by AMC/CC/CV or HQ AMC/A3, and for preparing coordinated AMC pre-
sentations for after action reviews conducted by HQ USAF or USTRANSCOM to which AMC is invited
AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                               11


to participate. Normally, HQ AMC/A3 is the senior representative at USTRANSCOM after action
reviews and will present the command’s briefing. The format for after action reviews will be specified by
HQ USAF or USTRANSCOM.

Figure 4.1. Sample After Action Report Format


NOTE: (?) This allows the submitter to decide on what classification label (U/C/S) should be used.
                            SAMPLE AFTER ACTION REPORT FORMAT
1. (U) ORIGINATOR: POC Names/Rank
2. (U) CONTACT INFORMATION: Telephone DSN/Commercial, E-mail, etc.
3. (U) EVENT NAME/OPERATION: NICKNAME The nickname is the name of the exercise which
includes all of the lessons learned in this group. It is usually two words long and includes the last two
digits of the fiscal year. Example: BRIGHT STAR 01. All characters are upper case. Example: Operation
JOINT ENDEAVOR conducted by Commander USEUCOM on DATE: Enter either the current date, or
the date of the lesson learned in the format MM/DD/YY. If using the JIIP, it will not allow you to input
an incorrect date format.
4. (U) TITLE: The title for this specific lesson learned should reflect both the subject area and the nature
of the problem. The title should be less than 75 characters long and may contain either upper or lower
case letters or both.
5. (?) GENERAL DESCRIPTION: Short description of the operation or exercise, including general
statements of the scope and purpose.
6. (?) DATES: As a minimum, dates of actual or simulated combat operations. Paragraph will also
include deployment, employment, redeployment, mobilization, or other significant dates.
7. (?) LOCATION OF OPERATIONS: A short but meaningful list of actual or simulated location of
combat operations. An exhaustive list is not necessary, but "Western Hemisphere" is too vague. Primary
on/offload, en route and/or stage, and AMD locations should be included.
8. (?) LOCATION OF PERSONNEL: Location(s) of participants, especially if different from the
location of actual or simulated combat operations.
9. (?) OBJECTIVES: A short but meaningful list of operation or training objectives. A detailed list of
all objectives is not necessary, but "improve force readiness" is too vague.
10. (?) LIMITATIONS: Specific operation or exercise limitations, including geographic limits to
operations, simulation of forces, or other significant limitations.
11. (?) MAJOR PARTICIPANTS: A short but meaningful list of the major participants. An exhaustive
list is not necessary, but "U.S. Army" is too vague. Identification should be understandable to personnel
from other Services.

NOTES:
1. JIIP software does not have this format. Scroll to the bottom of the narrative screen and type Para-
   graphs 5 through 11.
2. Data in Paragraphs 7-10 should reflect AMC participation only
HQ AMC/A37TX, DSN 779-4395, is the OPR for AAR submissions.
12                                                                   AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005


Figure 4.2. Sample JLLP Format.


                           SAMPLE JOINT LESSONS LEARNED FORMAT
1. (U) JLLP NUMBER: Assigned automatically by computer if you are using the Joint Instructional
Input Program (JIIP) or JLLP Program. If you are not using JIIP or JLLP, leave blank. OPR: Enter the
Office of Primary Responsibility in this location. The OPR is the Section within the organization that
observed the lesson learned. Use upper case characters only. POC: The name of the Point of Contact
should be entered in this location. The POC is the individual that prepared this information. Use upper
case characters. DSN: Enter the Defense Switched Network phone number of the POC in this field.
COMMERCIAL PHONE: The commercial phone number of the POC in this field
2. (U) OPERATION: NICKNAME The nickname is the name of the exercise which includes all of the
lessons learned in this group. It is usually two words long and includes the last two digits of the fiscal
year. Example: PROUD SPIRIT 80. All characters are upper case. Example: Operation RESTORE
HOPE conducted by USCENTCOM on DATE: Enter either the current date, or the date of the lesson
learned in the format MM/DD/YY. If using the JIIP, it will not allow you to input an incorrect date
format.
3. (U) KEYWORDS: Leave blank; HQ AMC/A37TX will enter them later.
4. (U) TITLE: The title for this specific lesson learned should reflect both the subject area and the nature
of the problem. The title should be less than 75 characters long and may contain either upper or lower
case letters or both.
5. (?) OBSERVATION: A short statement of the problem. Identify the problem, not just one of its
symptoms. Try to limit each lesson learned to a single problem or successful action.
6. (?) DISCUSSION: Amplified problem statement and answers to the "who, what, where, when, why,
and how" questions about the problem. If the lesson learned describes the positive actions taken to work
around the problem, explain those actions in detail. If the problem could not be solved by the participants,
explain why.
7. (?) LESSON LEARNED: The lesson learned is a statement of how to work around the problem,
which other commanders can use while a permanent solution is being accomplished. Avoid restating or
rephrasing the problem, and concentrate on positive actions.
8. (?) RECOMMENDED ACTION: Statement on how to correct the problem permanently and who
should make the correction. (e.g., the Joint Chiefs of Staff should develop a systematic process to identify
and resolve joint doctrine problems"). The action could result in requiring new or modified publications,
procuring new equipment, changing force structure, revising command relationships, improving training,
etc. If no corrective action is necessary, enter "None required" in the recommended action paragraph.
AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                             13


                                               Chapter 5

                    AMC REMEDIAL ACTION PROJECT (RAP) PROGRAM

5.1. Organization: The Director of Operations (HQ AMC/A3) is responsible for the AMC Remedial
Action Project (RAP) program. The HQ AMC/A37TX will administer the RAP program and chair the
RAP Review Group (RAP R.G.). Normally an officer from A37TX will be appointed as Program Coordi-
nator for the Joint Lessons Learned Program (JLLP) and RAP programs. The RAP R.G. will be composed
of representatives of all AMC functional areas. The group will meet as required to address RAP items, but
will meet quarterly as a minimum.

5.2. Responsibilities :
   5.2.1. The JLLP/RAP Program Coordinator will:
       5.2.1.1. Maintain the AMC JLLP historical database of lessons learned and the database of AMC
       RAPs in the resolution process.
       5.2.1.2. Monitor progress of AMC RAP resolution and notify HQ AMC/A37TX of the need for
       senior officer involvement in the process.
       5.2.1.3. Plan and organize RAP R.G. meetings.
       5.2.1.4. Coordinate with the Exercise Steering Committee to ensure lessons learned are incorpo-
       rated into future AMC exercise and contingency planning.
       5.2.1.5. Coordinate AMC actions within the USTRANSCOM and USAF RAP programs.
       5.2.1.6. Prepare after-action and JLLP reports as required.
   5.2.2. Functional area OPRs will:
       5.2.2.1. Attend AMC RAP R.G. meetings.
       5.2.2.2. Be the focal point for actions required to close RAP items assigned to their respective
       functional area.
       5.2.2.3. Report problems encountered within their functional area during AMC operations and
       exercises that they deem.
   5.2.3. The RAP R.G. will:
       5.2.3.1. Determine if an after-action report item requires entry into the AMC RAP program and
       assign an OPR.
       5.2.3.2. Provide guidance on the resolution of problems identified through after-action reporting.
       5.2.3.3. Determine if an AMC RAP item is closed through completion/validation of corrective
       action.

5.3. AMC RAP Process. The AMC RAP program complies with the requirements of CJCSI3150.25A.
HQ AMC/A37TX maintains two JLLP databases for use by the command. One database contains RAP
items in the resolution process. The second database contains all lessons learned that have been received
by AMC. HQ AMC/A37TX will also distribute updated copies of these databases to 18 AF, TACC, and
the AMWC as requested.
14                                                                    AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005


     5.3.1. Problem Identification. Critique items/observations are identified to AMC from after-action
     reports, end-of-tour reports, or other inputs after exercises or other operations. The AMC RAP R.G.
     will assign each input to one of the following categories:
        5.3.1.1. Remedial Action Project (RAP). A RAP is a deficiency in policies, supporting strategies,
        plans, procedures, systems, materiel, or forces that focus on major problems with joint or com-
        mand implications that can be corrected. No other formal process exists for their remediation.
        5.3.1.2. Procedural Item (PI). PIs are issues for which procedures exist but were not followed. A
        PI identifies potential areas for training and command emphasis. The RAP coordinator for the
        functional area will provide the procedural reference. The procedural reference and responsible
        organization will be annotated in the comments section of the JLL. Repetitive occurrence of a pro-
        cedural item is justification for the issue to be considered for RAP.
        5.3.1.3. Exercise Item (EI). EIs are issues that occur in the exercise environment that would not
        occur in actual operations. Repetitive occurrence of exercise design and management issues from
        a single agency is justification for that issue to be considered as a RAP for that agency.
        5.3.1.4. Noted Item (NI). NIs are items that do not require corrective action or for which another
        formal process exists that is already addressing the issue. NIs include issues that:
            5.3.1.4.1. Have been corrected prior to the RAP R.G.
            5.3.1.4.2. Are already being worked as a RAP. In this case, the NI should “fold in” to the exist-
            ing RAP.
            5.3.1.4.3. Recommend changes in policies, plans, systems, etc., that have been rejected by the
            functional area experts.
     5.3.2. RAP Classification and Reporting Requirements.
        5.3.2.1. Active RAP. The solution is being actively pursued by the assigned OPR. Status updates
        on all active RAPs will be reported to the AMC RAP coordinator at least quarterly.
        5.3.2.2. Inactive RAP. An inactive RAP is an issue for which the solution cannot be actively pur-
        sued because of current policy, funding, etc., or a change in the status of the solution to the prob-
        lem is not expected for an extended period of time, normally years. Inactive RAPs are reviewed by
        the RAP R.G. at least annually. Inactive RAPs will be included in the RAP Open Items Book.
        5.3.2.3. Completed RAP. The OPR has completed all actions to resolve the issue and the RAP is
        awaiting validation, if necessary. RAPs are recommended for completed status by the OPR to the
        R.G. After completed status is approved, subsequent status updates need only include the planned
        method of validation. Completed RAPs are included in the RAP Open Items Book.
        5.3.2.4. Closed RAP. All actions by the OPR to resolve the issue are completed and the RAP has
        been validated, if required. These RAPs are placed in the AMC historical JLLP database.
     5.3.3. RAP Actions:
        5.3.3.1. Validation. Validation may be accomplished using any method that provides the RAP
        R.G. assurance that the problem is fixed. The most common method for RAP validation is through
        subsequent exercises. In cases where RAP validation is unnecessary or not feasible, the RAP R.G.
        may declare the RAP closed by decision.
AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                            15


     5.3.3.2. Fold-In (FI). Issues which are similar in nature and share a common solution should be
     "folded together" to form a single RAP. Likewise, new issues may be folded into the existing RAP
     with concurrence of the RAP OPR. The comments section of the new issue JLL will be annotated
     to identify the JLLP number of the issues that have been folded together.
     5.3.3.3. OPR Transfer. A current OPR can request a RAP OPRship transfer to another functional
     area. The current OPR should coordinate the transfer with the prospective OPR prior to a RAP
     R.G. meeting, and then present the OPRship transfer request to the RAP R.G. as part of the status
     update. The RAP R.G. must concur to the OPRship transfer action to be complete. OPR transfer
     actions will be recorded in the remarks section of the RAP item.
     5.3.3.4. Closure. To close a RAP, the OPR must submit a memorandum to the RAP R.G. summa-
     rizing the action taken and the method of validation. The memorandum must provide the RAP
     R.G. a reasonable level of assurance that all possible actions have been taken to prevent recurrence
     of the problem. The R.G. may close a RAP when any of the following conditions exist:
        5.3.3.4.1. All actions to resolve the problem are completed and the solution has been validated
        or is not required.
        5.3.3.4.2. The OPR determines the issue should not be a RAP.
        5.3.3.4.3. Corrective action to remedy the problem was repeated unsuccessfully (e.g., legisla-
        tive actions fail, budget requests rejected, or recommended corrective actions are continually
        disapproved). Depending on the nature and criticality of the problem, the RAP may be consid-
        ered for inactive status rather than closed. Closures resulting from conditions other than full
        validation will be recorded in the RAP database as "closed by decision."
16                                                                     AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005


                                                  Chapter 6

                                          EXERCISE FUNDING

6.1. Funding Sources. There are two primary sources of funding for CJCS exercise costs. The Joint Staff
controls and allocates transportation funding for deployment, employment/sustainment, and redeploy-
ment of exercise forces. The Air Staff controls and allocates funds to cover incremental costs incurred by
Air Force commands and agencies in support of CJCS exercises.
     6.1.1. CJCS Transportation Funding. The CJCS transportation funds are broken down into four dif-
     ferent categories.
        6.1.1.1. Airlift: AMC manages funding for airlift and exercise sponsoring commands are given
        drawing rights, in airlift capability, against those funds.
        6.1.1.2. Sealift: Managed in a similar manner by Military Sealift Command.
        6.1.1.3. Port Handling and Inland Transportation Funds (PH/IT): Allocated to the services and
        used to load and unload ships and for surface movement of personnel and equipment deploying
        and redeploying on CJCS exercises.
        6.1.1.4. Commercial Ticket Program (CTP): Allocated by the Joint Staff to the services to deploy
        and redeploy small units and individuals to CJCS exercises. To use CTP funding, 18 AF/TACC
        must recommend CTP as the only available means or most efficient means of deploying and rede-
        ploying small forces validated in the exercise Time-Phased Force and Deployment Data (TPFDD)
        and USTRANSCOM must authorize the use of CTP funds for specific ULNs.
     6.1.2. Support Funding for AMC Units/Personnel. The Air Staff allocates Program Element (PE)
     28011F funds to cover incremental CJCS exercise costs for O&M funded AMC activities/personnel.
     Such costs must be clearly in addition to normal operating costs and may include planning conference
     TDY/travel, certain civilian overtime costs if directly related to exercise tasking, supplies required for
     exercises, and TDY/per diem costs for O&M funded personnel participating in CJCS exercises and
     filling an AMC Deployment Manning Document (DMD) position and validated in the exercise
     TPFDD. HQ AMC/A37TX approves use of PE 28011F funds for AMC. Unit costs must be captured
     using the applicable CJCS Emergency and Special Programs (ESP) codes placed on the accounting
     classification immediately following the accounting and disbursing station number on TDY orders.
     HQ AMC/A88 will not reimburse O&M CJCS exercise support costs without A37TX authorization
     and proper PE and ESP codes identified in the accounting system.
     6.1.3. Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF). Costs of AMC exercise operations directly
     related to industrial funded airlift/flight operations are funded through the TWCF. These TWCF flying
     hour and commercial contract airlift costs are then charged to the CJCS exercise Military Interdepart-
     mental Purchase Request (MIPR) provided by the Joint Staff. TWCF units supporting CJCS exercises
     must capture these costs by using the applicable CJCS ESP code on the accounting classification of
     their TDY orders and contractual documents. HQ AMC/A88 will not reimburse TWCF CJCS exercise
     support costs without proper PE and ESP codes. Such flying hour costs normally include:
        6.1.3.1. All active duty, Air National Guard, Air Force Reserve Command C-5, C-17, C-141, and
        C-130 hours, as well as theater assigned C-130 hours, flown in support of CJCS exercises using
        AMC assigned exercise mission numbers and mission symbols. All such missions should be
AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                             17


       included in the Global Decision Support System and the flying hours should be reported in the
       USAF Reliability and Maintainability Information System.
       6.1.3.2. Validated airlift requirements eligible for CJCS exercise transportation funding must be
       requested in accordance with CJCSM 3500.3A, Enclosures L and U. The CJCS Exercise MIPR
       will not be used to cover the costs of Special Assignment Airlift Missions (SAAM) flown in sup-
       port of a CJCS exercise or cited as expense authority in a SAAM request without the prior
       approval of the Joint Staff J7.
       6.1.3.3. AMC KC-10 and KC-135 tanker missions flown in the straight airlift mode using AMC
       assigned exercise mission numbers.
       6.1.3.4. Tanker Airlift Control Element (TALCE)/Mission Support Teams (MST), Air Mobility
       Operations Squadron personnel, security forces Phoenix Raven teams, aircraft maintenance, aerial
       port, mobile aerial port, and airlift operations/flying squadron TDY costs for deployments, site
       surveys, and planning activities
       6.1.3.5. Support and contract costs for deployed TWCF units/personnel
   6.1.4. FUNDING FOR non-TWCF funded AMC UNITS. Contact HQ AMC/A37TX, DSN 779-2422
   for exercise funding authorization. Include in the request the number of personnel to be covered by the
   authorization, and total funding requested. Identify specific costs for transportation, per diem, lodg-
   ing, rental vehicle, etc., in the request. A37TX will provide an email to the requestor authorizing use
   of PEC and ESP code in conjunction with unit fund cite. HQ AMC/A88 will reimburse units, “after
   the fact” for pre-approved expenses.

6.2. Airlift Transportation Funding Management. The exercise-sponsoring command is responsible
for planning exercise deployments within their drawing rights on funding provided by CJCS. Validating
transportation requirements, to include AMC forces, is also the responsibility of the sponsoring com-
mand. AMC units/personnel should plan to deploy and redeploy for CJCS exercises using scheduled mil-
itary or commercial contract airlift, or through the CTP if authorized by USTRANSCOM. PE 28011F
funds are not normally used to fund exercise transportation costs.
   6.2.1. Airlift Cost Accounting. 18 AF/TACC, through USTRANSCOM, provides the sponsoring
   command cost estimates based on force list estimates. Later in the planning process these estimates
   are updated to reflect validated TPFDD requirements. If estimated costs exceed the exercise alloca-
   tion, 18 AF/TACC and USTRANSCOM advise the sponsoring command. The sponsor must either
   delete forces to remain within budget, re-budget within his CJCS exercise drawing rights, or request
   an additional airlift allocation from the Joint Staff. Each month, AMC reports actual airlift costs to
   USTRANSCOM, the Joint Staff, and sponsoring commands.



                                              MARK A. VOLCHEFF, Maj Gen, USAF
                                              Director of Operations
18                                                             AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005


                                           Attachment 1

                                 EXERCISE POINTS OF CONTACT
FUNCTION                            POC
Aircrew Protection                  HQ AMC/A37TL, DSN 779-2776
Airspace & Airfield Operations      HQ AMC/A36A, DSN 779-3682
AMC Exercise Training               HQ AMC/A37TX, DSN 779-2422/2007
AMC System Support                  HQ AMC/A67E, DSN 779-5758
AMOS exercises                      HQ AMC/A31, DSN 779-4401/1270
BLUE FLAG                           HQ USAF MOS Det 1(AMWC) DSN 579-7722
Civil Engineers                     HQ AMC/A7X, DSN 779-0700
CJCS exercise airflow planning      18 AF/TACC/XOP, DSN 779-1930/4927 (East), 3937 (Americas),
                                    2940 (Central), 2933 (Europe), 4996 (Pacific), 2410 (Mission
                                    Support)
Combat Camera                       HQ AMC/A63X, DSN 779-3221
Communication support               HQ AMC/A63X, DSN 779-3221
Contingency Support Staff (CSS)     HQ AMC/A35, DSN 779-3320
Fixed command and control           HQ AMC/A33C, DSN 779-3245
Flight Safety                       HQ AMC/SEF, DSN 779-0930
Full Spectrum Threat Response       HQ AMC/A7X, DSN 779-0970
Ground Safety                       HQ AMC/SEG, DSN 779-0940
Intelligence planning               HQ AMC/A22, DSN 779-2959
Logistics planning                  HQ AMC/A45, DSN 779-2063
Medical planning                    HQ AMC/SGP, DSN 779-6305
OPSEC/IO/MilDec                     HQ AMC/A39I, DSN 779-8461/0440/4569
RED/GREEN/MAPLE FLAG                HQ AMC/A39T, DSN 779-3148,
                                    18 AF/TACC/XOOO, DSN 779-4680, and
                                    18 AF/TACC/XOOK, DSN 779-3951
                                    18 AF/TACC/XOBK, DSN 779-4694
Security Forces                     HQ AMC/SFOR, DSN 779-0903
USSTRATCOM Exercises                HQ AMC/A35S, DSN 779-1914; HQ AMC/A37TX,
                                    DSN 779-4395
Strategic Response Cell (SRC)       18 AF/TACC/XOOKN, DSN 779-0870/0881
Threat Working Group (TWG)          HQ AMC/TWG, DSN 779-4781/4773
AMCI10-204 8 FEBRUARY 2005                                     19


USAF Mobility Weapons School   MWS, DSN 650-7924, and
Mission Employment Phase       18 AF/TACC/XOOK, DSN 779-3951
Weather Planning               HQ AMC/A36W, DSN 779-4337
