BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                   INSTRUCTION 90-101

                                                                                 3 MARCH 2011

                                                                            Special Management

                                               AIR MOBILITY COMMAND CAPABILITIES-
                                                              BASED PLANNING (CBP)


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AMC/A8X                                                     Certified by: HQ AMC/A8X
Supersedes: AMCI 90-101, 23 February                                       (Col Michael E. Peet)
            2007                                                                      Pages: 16


This instruction supports AFPD 90-11, Strategic Planning System, AFPD 10-21, Air Mobility
Lead Command Roles and Responsibilities, and AFI 10-604, Capabilities-Based Planning, and
establishes guidance for Air Mobility Command’s Capabilities-Based Planning (CBP) process.
It provides definitions and establishes Headquarters Air Mobility Command (HQ AMC) staff
agency responsibilities in the iterative planning cycle based on Joint, Air Force, and AMC Senior
Leader visions that lead to fielding the best mix of air mobility capabilities to support the
warfighters. This instruction clarifies roles and responsibilities and provides management
guidelines and feedback controls to facilitate AMC strategic planning. This instruction applies to
the CBP participants and leadership within HQ AMC. This publication does not apply to the Air
National Guard (ANG) and their units. Participation is highly encouraged, but is not mandatory,
for Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and members. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to AMC/A8X, 402 Scott Drive, Unit 3L3, Scott
AFB IL 62225-5307, Phone (618) 229-4671 or DSN 7794671 using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.
 2                                                                 AMCI90-101 3 MARCH 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised and should be completely reviewed. Major
changes include revising the nomenclature for, and membership of, the Functional Capability
Teams. Establishes CBP outputs and deliverable approval process, streamlines CBP Functional
Area Analysis, Functional Needs Analysis, and Functional Solution Analysis processes.
Establishes relationship between AMC’s CBP process and the Joint Capabilities Integration and
Development System (JCIDS). Clarifies CBP process contributions to the air mobility
investment strategy process. This revised instruction clarifies ro les and responsibilities and
provides management guidelines and feedback controls to facilitate Mobility Air Forces (MAF)
planning and supports AFPD 90-11, Strategic Planning System, AFPD 10-21, Air Mobility Lead
Command Roles and Responsibilities, and AFI 10-604, Capabilities-Based Planning.


1. PURPOSE. HQ AMC, the lead command for air mobility, is responsible for managing the
process that ensures the Mobility Air Forces (MAF) provide the airlift, air refueling, aeromedica l
evacuation, and air mobility support capabilities required by Combatant Commanders, today and
into the future. The AMC planning process is effects-driven, capabilities-based, and supports
National, Joint, and Air Force objectives. CBP provides consiste nt direction for AMC planning
activities and supports joint and service level capabilities-based planning processes. The AMC
CBP process, founded on key strategic level documents, produces guidance that balances present
and future requirements out 25 years. The CBP process produces consistent inputs to other air
mobility planning documents or processes to include the Air Mobility Master Plan, the Planning
Force, the Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment process, and the budgeting process. CBP
has a strong analytical underpinning that links the vision to plans, requirements definition, and
programmatic processes. The CBP process provides AMC leadership a capabilities-based
perspective on planning, requirements, and programmatic issues.
2. AMC’S CAPABILITIES-BASED PLANNING PROCESS. Multiple processes and
agencies support the AMC CBP process. CBP uses a three-phased planning process conducted
by Functional Capabilities Teams (FCT). These teams are composed of subject matter experts
matrixed from AMC organizations. The FCTs use analytical techniques to provide qualitative
and quantitative assessments of capabilities, evaluations of capability deficiencies or excesses
and operational risks, and identification of approaches or potential so lutions to overcome
deficiencies. FCT Leads are ultimately responsible for preparing deliverables to the AMC
Corporate Structure for their functional area. The CBP process employs modeling techniques to
produce capabilities-based inputs for the formulation of the command’s investment strategy.
AMC/A5/8 is the CBP process owner and A8X facilitates the entire process, FCT operations,
and training.
     2.1. The following describes the three phases of the capability analysis process.
        2.1.1. Functional Area Analysis (FAA). FAA is the first phase in a strategy-to-
        capability-to-task process where FCTs identify operational and support function
        capabilities that air mobility forces must perform today and for 25 years into the future.
            2.1.1.1. During this phase, FCTs identify air mobility capabilities derived from
            foundational documents that include the Joint Capability Areas, the Universal Joint
AMCI90-101 3 MARCH 2011                                                                       3


        Task List (UJTL), the Air Force Universal Task List (AFUTL), the Rapid Global
        Mobility Core Function Master Plan, the latest mobility capability or requirements
        studies, and operating, enabling, and functional concepts. An FAA identifies the
        operational tasks, conditions, and standards needed in order to provide a required
        capability over the near- (0-8 years), mid- (9-14 years), and long-term (15-25 years)
        time periods. FCTs assign military utility values to required capabilities based upon
        the conditions from a wide range of scenarios that reflect the uncertainty of the global
        security environment and the diversity of required missions. FCTs develop measures
        of performance and standards consistent with the UJTL and AFUTL.
        2.1.1.2. Using strategic guidance, modeling techniques, scenarios, and leveraging Air
        Force and Joint Lessons Learned, FCTs complete an FAA that fully identifies
        required air mobility capabilities for use by Combatant Commanders. During FAA,
        the FCTs may also identify air mobility capabilities, not specified in an operating
        concept, but required by a warfighter, or natio nal or state agencies.
        2.1.1.3. After air mobility capabilities are identified, the FCTs recommend them for
        inclusion in the AFUTL and enter them, along with associated tasks, attributes,
        measures, and standards, into the AMC CBP Information Syste m maintained by
        AMC/A8X.
        2.1.1.4. Ultimately, strategic and operational level mobility capabilities are
        developed in the strategic planning process, published in the Service Core Function
        Master plans, the Operating Concepts, and future versions o f the AMMP. The FAA
        sets the stage for the assessment of capabilities’ proficiencies and capacities
        accomplished in Functional Needs Analysis (FNA).
     2.1.2. Functional Needs Analysis (FNA). FNA is a task-to-need, or gap analysis process,
     that identifies deficiencies or overages in the MAF’s ability to provide required
     capabilities today and/or projected capabilities in the future. A capability gap suggests a
     total lack of proficiency, whereas a capability shortfall suggests that, while some
     capability exists, the amount (or capacity) of capability is less than required. In some
     cases, excess capacity exists and this is termed an overage.
        2.1.2.1. During this phase, FCTs compare actual capabilities with required
        capabilities and recommend areas for further investigation. The FCTs consider
        scenarios (briefed by A8X), operational context, and contributions of capabilities
        resident in programs of record or from technologies from Research and Development
        (R&D) efforts, such as Advanced Concep t Technology Demonstrations (ACTD) or
        Advanced Technology Demonstrations (ATD).
            2.1.2.1.1. FCTs integrate needs across functional capability areas and use value
            curves to express the significance of shortfalls. A value curve is a scoring
            function that assigns military value (y-axis) to a capability evaluation measure (x-
            axis). AMC’s CBP value curve is based on three points (defined below): No
            Military Value, Good Enough, and More Doesn’t Matter. FCTs define the value
            curve during FAA and measure current capability performance during FNA to
            identify capability gaps and excesses. During FSA, solutions are evaluated on the
            same value curves to compare capability improvements.
4                                                             AMCI90-101 3 MARCH 2011


              2.1.2.1.1.1. No Military Value (NMV): level at which capability is so low
              that you might as well NOT do the mission.
              2.1.2.1.1.2. Good Enough (GE): level at which you can adequately perform
              the mission.
              2.1.2.1.1.3. More Doesn’t Matter (MDM): “Level of Diminishing Returns”
              where any additional investment provides little mission enhancement.
           2.1.2.1.2. Given the existence of a gap or shortfall, the FCTs determine the risk to
           the AF of having a specific amount of capability and the likelihood the gap or
           shortfall will have an adverse impact on the AF’s ability to achieve desired effects
           for a given time period. The amount of capability shortfall, when factored against
           the relative importance of the capability, determines the level of risk. A highly
           important capability that also has a large shortfall or gap is deemed high risk
           whereas a small shortfall in a capability with low importance will be considered
           low risk. The CBP process does not manage risk; rather, it identifies areas of risk
           and suggests possible mitigating solutions to leadership for consideration.
       2.1.2.2. The FNA is designed to inform senior leaders that risk exists in our
       capability to provide desired effects based on given scenarios and operational
       considerations. The needs identified in FNA are the major input for the Functional
       Solutions Analysis (FSA) phase. FNA results serve as inputs used to develop AMC’s
       Strategic Assessment. Deficiencies are documented in the AMMP which is used by
       external organizations in industry, academia, and the Science and Technology (S&T)
       community (e.g., AFRL, ESC) to focus their R&D efforts on critical capability gaps
       out to the 25 year planning horizon. Deficiencies identified in the FNA may be
       further analyzed in a Capabilities-Based Assessment and lead to the development of
       requirements documents by AMC/A5Q.            FCTs enter deficiency and risk data,
       normally classified SECRET, into the AMC CBP Information System.
    2.1.3. Functional Solutions Analysis (FSA). The FSA is an FCT-led operational
    assessment of potential doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and
    education, personnel, and facilities (DOTMLPF) approaches, or solution sets, intended to
    reduce or eliminate the capability deficiencies identified during the FNA. This effort
    brings sponsors and the DOTMLPF analytic community together to identify potential
    COAs and provide their recommendations for comprehensive solution(s).
       2.1.3.1. During the FSA, FCTs explore non-materiel and materiel approaches to meet
       identified needs from the FNA. FCTs first evaluate potential non- materiel solutions
       to meet identified needs. FCTs then evaluate the ability of materiel solutions to
       resolve identified deficiencies. The FSA quantifies the military utility of solutions in
       mitigating capability gaps or shortfalls by comparing the solution’s capabilities
       contributions against the actual (or projected) capability capacity determined in the
       FNA. During the FSA, FCTs may recommend adopting new programs that provide
       needed capabilities, recommend changes in capability capacities to meet warfighter
       needs, or recommend the elimination of programs that provide redundant or
       unnecessary capabilities.
AMCI90-101 3 MARCH 2011                                                                          5


         2.1.3.2. The FCTs enter the approved results of the FSA into the AMC CBP
         Information System. Solutions and approaches are included in the roadmap for the
         functional area and published in the AMMP. The FSA results identify solution sets
         that promise capability improvements and may lead to further, more detailed analyses
         and requirements development in accordance with the JCIDS process.
  2.2. Modeling and Analysis. The AMC CBP uses a rigorous analytical process to produce
  an objective evaluation of required capabilities, deficiencies, risks, and alternative solutions.
  This process is dependent upon the detailed data produced by the FCTs. AMC/A9 leads
  modeling and analysis for the AMC CBP process and provides specific guidance required to
  scope functional capability analysis.
     2.2.1. Value-Focused Thinking (VFT). Value- focused thinking is a decision analysis
     tool designed to link decisions to the organization’s true values. VFT does this by
     creating a value hierarchy that identifies important capabilities of the organization at
     every level, from the fundamental objectives (highest level) down to the evaluation
     measures (lowest level). The capabilities are weighted based on their importance in
     accomplishing the mission relative to the other capabilities on that level. Once FCTs
     have assigned values, each program is evaluated against the metrics (at the lowest levels)
     which results in an overall military value score. The highest scoring capabilities and
     associated programs are determined to have the most military value.
     2.2.2. Investment Strategy Inputs. The VFT scoring data determined during the CBP
     process is used to make recommendations to inform the development of AMC’s
     capability-based investment strategy. The use of quantitative evaluations of non-materiel
     or materiel solutions, military utility, and risk mitigation qualities assists decision makers
     in developing programmatic plans.
3. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
  3.1. Functional Capabilities Teams (FCT)
     3.1.1. FCT Operations. The purpose of each FCT is to perform CBP-related activities to
     ensure the identification, prioritization, and analysis of air mobility capabilities required
     to create military effects.
         3.1.1.1. FCTs are the focal points for conducting functional area analyses to support
         CBP and are aligned with approved Functional Capability Areas as specified in
         paragraph 6.
         3.1.1.2. FCTs do not replace existing MAJCOM staff organizations or functions, but
         are standing teams with the cross-functional expertise necessary to assess,
         recommend, and champion necessary air mobility capabilities throughout the AMC,
         AF, and Joint CBP processes. They work at the direction of the FCT leads and will
         not be tasked by AMC staff functions for other purposes.
         3.1.1.3. The breadth of FCT membership ensures the CBP process has an enterprise
         perspective. FCT membership includes the following in addition to the offices listed
         in paragraph 6 of this document: aircraft program element monitors (C-5, C-17, C-
         130H/J, C-27J, OSA/VIPSAM, KC-135, KC-10, KC-X, etc), system or functional
         program element monitors, and action officers from the Program Objective
6                                                            AMCI90-101 3 MARCH 2011


       Memorandum (POM) Development, Science & Technology, and Future Concepts
       sections. The Airlift, Air Refueling, and C2 FCTs also have experts in force
       protection, defensive systems, communications, information operations, intelligence,
       and battlespace awareness to ensure these capabilities are fully considered in the CBP
       process.
       3.1.1.4. AMC/A8X is the process manager for FCTs and facilitates their activities to
       include use of standardized processes, tools, and production of quality data. This
       includes administrative support such as meeting coordination, agenda development,
       and FCT POC membership lists.
    3.1.2. FCT Lead Requirements. Each FCT shall have a designated lead (O-6 equivalent)
    and deputy lead as appropriate.
       3.1.2.1. FCT leads guide their teams through all CBP phases and monitor analytical
       efforts, issues, programs, technologies, policies, operational concerns, and other on-
       going efforts related to their respective functional capability areas. During the FAA,
       leads will ensure the identification of air mobility capabilities, attributes, measures
       and standards of performance. During the FNA, leads ensure the identification of
       capability deficiencies (gaps or shortfalls) or areas where redundant or excess
       capability exists. During the FSA, leads will ensure that alternative solutions are
       identified, evaluated, and recommended for adoption where appropriate.
       3.1.2.2. FCT leads will meet periodically to facilitate information flow on activities
       that cross functional areas. Coordination of FCT activities within each FCT and
       across other FCTs is necessary to ensure a comprehensive look at air mobility
       capabilities while minimizing duplication of effort and potential capability gaps.
       3.1.2.3. FCT leads represent their functional area in the AMC corporate process as
       defined in AMCI 16-101.
    3.1.3. CBP FAA, FNA, and FSA Reports.
       3.1.3.1. FCT leads complete a report on their analysis following each phase of the
       CBP process. The reports are deemed pre-decisional and are intended for AMC use in
       the strategic planning, requirements, and programming processes. Report data or
       findings, when properly vetted, are published in the Rapid Global Mobility Core
       Function Master Plan, the Strategic Assessment, the Air Mobility Master Plan, and as
       inputs to the AF Universal Task List. The reports are concise and each contain
       assumptions, FCT actions taken, findings/recommendations and lessons- learned
       during that particular phase. Attachments to the report may include background
       information, supporting data, and details not included in the main body of the report.
       The reports are reviewed by the FCT lead’s respective director prior to approval by
       the AMC A5/8 at the conclusion of each CBP phase.
    3.1.3.2. Specific Content.
           3.1.3.2.1. The FAA report describes the analysis accomplished on capabilities
           required by joint and AF guidance and concepts. This analysis establishes
           measurable tasks, attributes, measures of performance, and standards for each
           capability.
AMCI90-101 3 MARCH 2011                                                                       7


             3.1.3.2.2. The FNA report specifies capability needs with supporting analysis and
             justification. The report may recommend courses of action for use in the FSA or
             the need to conduct a Capabilities-Based Assessment, the analytic basis for the
             JCIDS process. It also is used to provide direction to S&T, R&D, and
             experimentation efforts.
             3.1.3.2.3. The FSA report explores DOTMLPF approaches for possible solutions
             to identified needs from the FNA. The report contains capability contribution
             data for alternative solutions, which is used by AMC/A8P during the AMC POM
             process. AMC/A8X and A/9 use the data to develop Investment Strategy inputs
             on the military utility of mobility programs. It is also used in the conduct of
             mobility capability studies, as supporting documentation for justification of
             Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF) expenditures and as supporting
             documentation for solution decisions. The report is used in AMMP development
             and assists the JCIDS process.
  3.2. AMC Chief Scientist. The Chief Scientist provides authoritative scientific counsel,
  technical advice and guidance throughout the Command on plans and programs within AMC
  mission areas and related technological fields. Using CBP data and findings, the Chief
  Scientist advises on the applicability of scientific and technical quality of AMC, AF and
  DOD programs and solutions to AMC mission area needs, engages subject area experts, and
  conducts efforts leading to technological enhancement of AMC capabilities.
  3.3. CRRA. Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment (CRRA). AMC support to the
  CRRA is managed in two phases; Phase I includes data collection and management, while
  Phase II involves post report corroboration. AMC/A3 manages CRRA Phase I with
  AMC/A5/8 acting as the OCR. AMC/A3R is charged with leading the CRRA data call.
  AMC/A5/8 manages Phase II of the CRRA with AMC/A3 acting as the OCR. AMC/A8X
  leads the Phase II effort and coordinates with AMC/A8P to ensure the AMC POM input is
  aligned with CRRA results. A8X also assists the Capabilities Champions and other
  MAJCOMs in risk assessments and preparing the CRRA briefs.
  3.4. AF C2 Capability Assessment Team (AF C2 CAT). AMC/A3 leads AMC’s support of
  the AF C2 CBP process with AMC A2/4/6 serving as OCRs. AMC/A3 integrates MAF
  capabilities identified during the CBP process into the AF C2 Roadmap and CAT Report.
  AMC/A3 also develops the MAF C2 Roadmap for the AMMP consistent with the C2 FCT
  FAA, FNA, and FSA final reports.
  3.5. AMC Staff Directorates. All AMC directorates assign Subject Matter Experts (SMEs)
  as representatives on the appropriate FCT. SMEs are technical experts in their respective air
  mobility missions, weapon systems, or functional areas.
  3.6. Science and Technology Working Group. The purpose of the Science and Technology
  Working Group (STWG) is to provide a forum for S&T knowledge sharing across Air
  Mobility Command, leveraging AMC’s S&T efforts. The STWG will have representation
  from each directorate with S&T functions and will meet as necessary to support the FCTs
  and AMC S&T efforts. Each FCT will include an STWG representative during all three
  phases of the CBP process. The STWG will meet with the Air Force Research Laboratory
  (AFRL) liaison and other agencies (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency [DARPA],
  academia, industry, etc.) to provide updates on capability gaps and shortfalls identified
8                                                                   AMCI90-101 3 MARCH 2011


    during the FNA. During the FSA, the S&T FCT representatives will provide information to
    the teams on technological applications with the potential to meet capability needs.
4. CBP PRODUCTS
    4.1. Air Mobility Master Plan (AMMP). The AMMP is an effects driven, capabilities-based
    strategic plan for the future of air mobility and reflects the results of the CBP process. It is a
    top-level, highly aggregated plan that illustrates how the MAF will attain the required air
    mobility capabilities and supporting infrastructure. The AMMP looks out 25 years and
    contains mission area, weapon system, and support process roadmaps that implement
    AMC/CC guidance. It is used to establish AMC’s acquisition and research investment
    strategies, the production of the Planning Force documents, and to influence the Annual
    Planning and Programming Guidance.
    4.2. Programming Force Inputs. AMC/A8X and A8P use FCT generated data in the
    development of the fiscally constrained programming force.
    4.3. Air Mobility Integrated Priority List Inputs: AMC/A8X and AMC/A8P develop inputs
    for the Air Mobility Integrated Priority List that are based upon CBP analysis and submitted
    to United States Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM).
    4.4. Inputs to development of the AMC Investment Strategies
       4.4.1. The Program Objective Memorandum (POM). The POM is the product of the
       "Programming" portion of the Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution (PPBE)
       process. The objective of the PPBE is, as defined in DOD Directive 7045.14: "...to
       provide the operational commanders-in-chief the best mix of forces, equipment, and
       support attainable within fiscal constraints." In the programming phase, DOD
       Components develop proposed programs consistent with the Defense Guidance. These
       programs reflect systemic analysis of missions and objectives to be achieved in order to
       execute the strategy approved during the planning phase. The AMC POM input
       recommends resource allocation within a Headquarters Air Force (HAF)-directed Blue
       Total Obligation Authority (TOA) Topline, which consists of Appropriated Funds
       excluding Defense Health Program (DHP) and National Intelligence Program (NIP).
       POM submissions must be executable, risk-balanced across capabilities, fund all "must-
       pay" bills, and identify prioritized programs to meet shortfalls. The CBP process will
       prioritize those AMC capabilities that best support combatant commands’ (COCOM)
       Integrated Priority Lists (IPL) and Defense Guidance, providing a decision framework
       from which to base the AMC POM submission. This framework will synthesize inputs
       from COCOMs, CRRA, Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF)/ Chief of Staff, United
       States Air Force (CSAF) guidance, and AMC/CC intent. Providing a matrix for AMC
       Group members to assess and prioritize programs which are brought forward by the
       Program Element Monitors (PEM), against capability priorities developed by FCTs; and
       ultimately providing a recommendation to the AMC/CC to deliver to the SECAF/CSAF.
       The CBP process provides inputs to the AMC POM process on the relative capability
       contributions of various programs under consideration for funding.
       4.4.2. Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF) Investment Inputs: The air
       component of USTRANSCOM, AMC plays a critical role in articulating and analyzing
       warfighter capabilities that directly support USTRANSCOM as the DOD Distribution
AMCI90-101 3 MARCH 2011                                                                         9


       Process Owner (DPO). AMC TWCF funding supports airlift operations (fuel,
       commercial augmentation, aircraft maintenance, Information Technology [IT]
       operating/capital funds, etc).      The AMC CBP process ensures inputs to
       USTRANSCOM’s Corporate Governance Process (CGP) are consistent and reflect
       AMC’s corporate process priorities.
       4.4.3. Science and Technology Investment: The CBP process provides consistent, vetted
       guidance to the S&T community to include academia, industry, AFRL, and AFMC. This
       guidance is derived from capability weighting, needs, and priorities established during
       the CBP process (FAA, FNA, and FSA) and are published in the AMMP.
5. AMC CBP INFORMATION FLOW AND PROCESS INTEGRATION The CBP
process produces consistent data that feeds AMC’s planning, requirements, programming,
budgeting, and program execution management processes. The FCTs will operate using
standardized methodologies and assumptions based on strategic guidance contained in
foundational documents. This methodology will include a series of periodic assessments—
identify/weight capabilities (FAA), determine/analyze deficiencies (shortfalls, gaps, and
overages/excesses) and associated risk (FNA), and identify/analyze solutions/courses of action to
resolve deficiencies (FSA). All FCT data are captured in the AMC CBP Information System.
AMC/A9 will use value- focused thinking and investment analysis tools to synthesize FCT inputs
and provide AMC leadership, through the appropriate governing bodies (AMC group and AMC
council), with analysis based on utility and risk. The information collected, and the analysis
conducted during the standardized planning process will provide repeatable, traceable, and
defendable data for use by senior leaders in critical decision- making.                Ultimately,
USTRANSCOM, the AF CRRA, AF C2 Capability Assessment Team (AF C2 CAT), Rapid
Global Mobility Core Function Master Plan, AMMP, AF Annual Planning and Programming
Guidance (APPG), and the AMC POM will use CBP data. Governing bodies, such as the AMC
Corporate Structure (Group or Council) and USTRANSCOM CGP Enterprise Requirements
Review Council (ERRC) will make decisions based upon consistent, vetted information. Figure
1 illustrates CBP information flow and the relationship of other processes, various organizations,
and key documents.
 10                                                               AMCI90-101 3 MARCH 2011


Figure 1. AMC Planning, Requirements, and Programming Integration




   5.1. Requirements and Planning Councils (R&PC). The AMC R&PCs provide a common,
   MAF fleet-wide forum (emphasizing combat operations) for planning and baselining
   activities, validation, prioritization, review, and approval of initiatives and new requirements.
   This process prioritizes requirements, resources and schedules within a total force context
   IAW AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapon System Management. The R&PC
   process, led by AMC/A5Q, fosters unity of direction between the weapon system’s
   customers (HQ AMC as the Lead Command) and the acquisition community.
   5.2. Air Force Requirements Oversight Council (AFROC). The AFROC assures AF
   capability requirements documentation is prepared IAW AF and Joint Staff guidance,
   complies with established standards, and accurately articulates AF capability requirements
   before and during the acquisition process. AMC/A5Q inputs to the AFROC will be based on
   the CBP process findings.
   5.3. Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC). The JROC assists the Chairman of the
   Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) in identifying and assessing priorities of joint military
   capabilities (including existing systems and equipment) to meet national military and defense
   strategies. Additionally, the JROC assists the Chairman in considering alternatives to any
   acquisition program identified to meet military capabilities by evaluating cost, schedule, and
   performance criteria of the program and of the identified alternatives. Functional
   Capabilities Boards (FCB) also supports the JROC, and its membership includes high level
AMCI90-101 3 MARCH 2011                                                                      11


  Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) offices.
  AMC inputs to the JROC will be based on the CBP process findings.
  5.4. Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS). JCIDS is defined in
  CJCS Instruction 3170.01G and supports the CJCS and the JROC in identifying, assessing,
  and prioritizing joint military capability needs as required by law. JCIDS, along with the
  Defense Acquisition System and the PPBE processes, form the principal DOD decision
  support processes for transforming military forces to support national military strategy and
  defense strategy. AMC JCIDS products are based upon CBP process findings.
  5.5. War Game and Lessons Learned Inputs. The War Gaming and Lessons Learned
  Sections identify air mobility capabilities-based requirements and develop inputs to the CBP
  process. War games provide a high visibility forum to identify and explore emerging joint
  force requirements and thus the capabilities AMC needs to meet the needs of the warfighter.
  The AMC Lessons Learned Program (AMCLLP) receives inputs from across the spectrum of
  operations and exercises. Lessons Learned inputs identify shortfalls and trends in air
  mobility capabilities that, in turn, drive new requirements. The capabilities based
  requirements identified through war games and the AMCLLP drive programmatic solutions
  and transformational change.        FSA results are used to establish war game and
  experimentation scenarios and objectives.
  5.6. Information Technology (IT) Processes.
     5.6.1. USTRANSCOM Corporate Governance Process (CGP). The CGP provides
     decision- making transparency for enterprise- level materiel and service solution
     development and addresses Transportation Working Capital Funds (TWCF) for IT
     programs within the Defense Transportation System. The CGP consists of an Enterprise
     Requirements Review Council (ERRC) and structure that addresses IT-enterprise- level
     capabilities. This process is documented in USTRANSCOM Instruction 90-6, Corporate
     Governance Process.
     5.6.2. AMC IT Requirements Process. The AMC IT Requirements Charter established a
     process for the corporate prioritization and effective integration of AMC enterprise- level
     IT requirements. It provides an entry point for a formalized and repeatable IT
     requirement prioritization into the AMC Corporate Structure, Program Objective
     Memorandum, and Unfunded Request cycles, as well as the USTRANSCOM Corporate
     Governance Process. The AMC Director of Communications as AMC Chief Information
     Officer (CIO) is the lead for IT Portfolio Management (PfM) and establishes IT policy to
     satisfy AMC’s strategic goals and objectives. The IT requirements process OPRs are
     AMC/A6 and AMC/A5/8.
  5.7. Logistics Transformation Steering Group (LTSG). The AMC LTSG integrates MAF
  concepts and requirements, developed and vetted through the CBP process, into
  transformation and Enterprise Resource Planning developmental efforts undertaken by the
  Air Force. The group focuses on the AMC Logistics Community to identify the most
  effective and efficient means of implementing a seamless Logistics Information System that
  will support the logistics needs of USTRANSCOM, AF, and AMC. The LTSG OPR is
  AMC/A4.
 12                                                         AMCI90-101 3 MARCH 2011


   5.8. MAF CBP Integrated Timeline. Figure 2 is the two-year CBP Integrated Timeline that
   shows the major processes and estimated production or due dates for significant CBP
   products.

Figure 2. MAF CBP Integrated Timeline.




6. FUNCTIONAL CAPABILITIES TEAM MEMBERSHIP
   6.1. Airlift.
       6.1.1. Lead: A3.
       6.1.2. The Airlift FCT is composed of action officers from: AMC/A1M, A2X, A3A,
       A3B, A3D, A3K, A3M, A3N, A3O, A3R, A3T, A3V, A3W, A3X, A4M, A4R, A4T,
       A5Q, A6C, A6I, A6X, A7O, A7P, A7S, A8P, A8X, A9I, CVO, CVZ, FMAT, SG,
       AFRL/XPA, Joint Partners, MAF counterparts, and other SMEs may participate as
       needed. Airlift weapon system Program Element Monitors are key members of this team.
   6.2. Air Refueling.
       6.2.1. Lead: A3.
AMCI90-101 3 MARCH 2011                                                                        13


     6.2.2. The Air Refueling FCT is composed of action officers from: AMC/A1M, A2X,
     A3A, A3D, A3M, A3N, A3O, A3R, A3T, A3V, A3W, A3X, A4M, A4R, A5Q, A6C,
     A6I, A6X, A7O, A7P, A7S, A8P, A8X, A9I, CVO, CVZ, FMAO, Joint Partners, MAF
     counterparts, and other SMEs may participate as needed. Air refueling weapon system
     Program Element Monitors are key members of this team.
  6.3. Air Mobility Support.
     6.3.1. Lead: A7, Deputy: A4.
     6.3.2. The AMS FCT is composed of action officers from: AMC/A1K, A1M, A1R,
     A1S, A2X, A3A, A3M, A3N, A3R, A3T, A3W, A3X, A4H, A4M, A4R, A4T, A58,
     A5Q, A6C, A6O, A6X, A7A, A7K, A7O, A7S, A7X, A7Z, A8P, A8X, A9I, HC, JAO,
     PAR, SGP, SGR, SGX, Joint Partners, MAF counterparts, and other SMES may
     participate as needed. Program Element Monitors are key members of this team.
  6.4. Command and Control (C2).
     6.4.1. Lead: A3, Deputy: 618 TACC/XON
     6.4.2. The C2 FCT is composed of action officers from: AMC/A1R, A2A, A2O, A2X,
     A3A, A3D, A3M, A3N, A3O, A3R, A3W, A4M, A4P, A5Q, A6C, A6I, A6X, A7O,
     A7P, A7S, A8P, A8X, A9I, FMA, FMAT, FMF, 618 TACC/XON. Joint partners, MAF
     counterparts, and other SMEs may participate as needed. C2 and IT Program Element
     Monitors are key members of this team.
7. PRESCRIBED AND ADOPTED FORMS
  7.1. Prescribed Forms: There are no prescribed forms for this instruction.
  7.2. Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                           SUSAN Y. DESJARDINS, Maj General, USAF
                                           Director of Strategic Plans, Requirements, and Programs
 14                                                        AMCI90-101 3 MARCH 2011


                                      Attachme nt 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-21, Air Mobility Lead Command Roles and Responsibilities, 1 May 1998
AFPD 90-11, Strategic Planning System, 26 March 2009
AFI 10-604, Capabilities-Based Planning, 10 May 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACTD— Advanced Concept Technology Demonstration
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC— Air Force Reserve Command
AFRL— Air Force Research Laboratory
AF C2 CAT— Air Force C2 Capability Assessment Team
AMC— Air Mobility Command
AMMP— Air Mobility Master Plan
ANG— Air National Guard
APPG— Annual Planning and Programming Guidance
ATD— Advanced Technology Demonstration
CBP— Capabilities- Based Planning
CDD— Capability Development Document
CGP— Corporate Governance Process
CIO— Chief Information Officer
CJCS— Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
CRRA— Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment
CSAF— Chief of Staff, United States Air Force
DARPA— Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
DOTMLPF— Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel,
and Facilities
DPO— Distribution Process Owner
ERRC— Enterprise Requirements Review Council
AMCI90-101 3 MARCH 2011                                        15


ESC— Electronic Systems Center
FAA— Functional Area Analysis
FCT— Functional Capabilities Team
FNA— Functional Needs Analysis
FSA— Functional Solutions Analysis
HAF— Headquarters Air Force
ICD— Initial Capability Document
IPL— Integrated Priority List
IT— Information Technology
JCIDS— Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JROC— Joint Requirements Oversight Council
MAJCOM— Major Command
MAF— Mobility Air Forces
NDS— National Defense Strategy
NMS— National Military Strategy
NSS— National Security Strategy
OCR— Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD— Office of the Secretary of Defense
PEM— Program Element Monitor
PfM— Portfolio Management
POM— Program Objective Memorandum
PPBE— Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution
QDR— Quadrennial Defense Review
R&D— Research and Development
R&PC— Requirements and Planning Council
SECAF— Secretary of the Air Force
SECDEF— Secretary of Defense
S&T— Science and Technology
SPG— Strategic Planning Guidance
TOA— Total Obligation Authority
VFT— Value-Focused Thinking
 16                                                           AMCI90-101 3 MARCH 2011


USTRANSCOM— United States Transportation Command

Terms
MAF Membe rs.— AMC, ACC, AETC, AFGSC, AFMC, AFRC, AFSPC, AFSOC, ANG,
PACAF, USAFE, USCENTAF, 12 AF (AFSOUTH).
Planning Guidance.— This is senior leadership guidance providing direction to the planning
process. These documents include, but are not limited to: National Security Strategy (NSS);
National Defense Strategy (NDS); National Military Strategy (NMS); Strategic Planning
Guidance (SPG); Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR); Joint and Air Force Vision Documents;
Air Force Strategic Plan (AFSP); Annual Planning and Programming Guidance (APPG); Joint
Planning Documents (JPD); Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE)
products; Service Core Function Master Plans.
Roadmaps.— Chart a recommended course of action for the command to follow to overcome
deficiencies and acquire mission capabilities. The Air Mobility Master Plan contains roadmaps
for each mission area, support process, and weapon system.
