BY ORDER OF THE                                                       AMC MISSION DIRECTIVE 704
COMMANDER AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                              5 MAY 1995

                                                                                      Mission Directives

                                                         AIR MOBILITY COMMAND OPERATIONS
                                                                     GROUP AND SQUADRONS



NOTICE: A copy of this publication can be found digitally at http: www.safb.af.mil:80/hqamc/pa/pubs/
pubhome2.htm. If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AMC/XPMPO                                                          Certified by: HQ AMC/XPM
       (CMSgt Michael R. Carton)                                               (Lt Col John E. Tompros)
Supersedes AMCMD 704, 1 June 1994.                                                            Pages: 12
                                                                                         Distribution: F

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Deletes paragraph 2.8, Aircraft Generation Squadron. Renumbers paragraph 2.9 to 2.8. Adds formal air-
crew training to the Operations Support Squadron mission statement, paragraph 2.7. Deletes Aircraft
Generation Squadrons as an objective wing waiver, paragraph 4.2. Adds Life Support Flight, Quality
Assurance/Process Improvement, and Formal Aircrew Training Flight as an objective wing waiver, para-
graph 4.2. Deletes Quality Assurance/Process Improvement functional statement from Operations
Group, Attachment 1. Deletes Life Support functional statement within the Airlift Squadrons, Attach-
ment 1. Adds Life Support Flight and Formal Aircrew Training Flight functional statements to the Oper-
ations Support Squadron, Attachment 1. Deletes maintenance functional statement from the Airlift and
Air Refueling Squadrons, Attachment 1. Deletes Aircraft Generation Squadron functional statement,
Attachment 1. Adds Air Refueling Wing organization structure to Attachment 2 Adds Life Support
Flight and Formal Aircrew Training Flight to the Operations Support Squadron, Attachment 2 Deletes
Attachment 3, Air Refueling Wing Operations Group.



1. Organization Authority. This regulation implements AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives.

2. Mission. AMC Operations Groups and their subordinate squadrons plan, control, and accomplish their
assigned functional missions. Mission statements cover Operations Groups and Squadrons in all types of
AMC wings. Attachment 1 reflects statements of the principle functions performed by the Operations
Group and subordinate squadrons down through flight level.
   2.1. Operations Group. Airlifts troops, cargo, military equipment, passengers (including the Presi-
   dent and members of the Cabinet), mail, and aeromedical evacuation patients to and from areas requir-
   ing such airlift. Provides air refueling support to Department of Defense, Air Force, and allied
   aircraft. Participates in operations involving airland or airdrop of troops, equipment, and supplies.
   Supports special operations forces. Provides air refueling and strategic support for conventional oper-
   ations.
2                                                                             AMCMD704 5 MAY 1995

    2.2. Airlifts troops, cargo, military equipment, passengers (including the President and members of
    the Cabinet), mail, and aeromedical evacuation patients to and from areas requiring such airlift. Par-
    ticipates in operations involving airland or airdrop of troops, equipment, and supplies. Supports spe-
    cial operations forces.
    2.3. Air Refueling Squadron. Provides air refueling support to Air Force, DoD, and allied forces for
    peacetime, contingency, and conventional operations, as required. Supports nuclear forces under the
    Single Integrated Operations Plan (SIOP). Provides strategic and organic airlift support, as required.
    Where authorized, provides management and oversight of the Companion Trainer Program. Supports
    special operations forces.
    2.4. Helicopter Squadron. Airlifts troops, cargo, military equipment, passengers (including the
    President and members of the Cabinet), mail, and aeromedical evacuation patients to and from areas
    requiring such airlift. Supports special operations forces.
    2.5. Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron. Provides in-flight medical care to US Armed Forces’
    patients, their dependents, and other patients authorized for evacuation.
    2.6. Aerial Port Squadron. Operates air terminal facilities at AMC aerial ports to move passengers,
    mail, and cargo by military or military contract aircraft. During mobility operations, deploys person-
    nel and equipment to provide sustained support of airlift operations at established fixed and or non-
    fixed terminals.
    2.7. Operations Support Squadron. Provides intelligence, scheduling, combat tactics, training, air-
    crew life support, airfield and air traffic operations, and weather support to the operations squadrons
    in an operations group. Provides aerial delivery support when no aerial port squadron exists. Con-
    ducts formal aircrew training for KC-10 and C-9 aircrew personnel.
    2.8. Combat Control Squadron. Organizes, trains, and equips combat control teams to rapidly
    establish assault zones and to control expeditionary airfields. Provides tactical air traffic control at
    these zones in austere and/or combat environments. Conducts reconnaissance of potential assault
    zone sites and initial placement of en route and terminal navigational aids. Provides command, con-
    trol, and communications and removal of obstacles and unexploded ordnance.

3. Command. The Operations Group is assigned to an AMC Air Mobility, Airlift, or Air Refueling
Wing.

4. Organizational Structure. The organization structures prescribed in this directive are in accordance
with (IAW) AFI 38-101, Air Force Organizational Structure, and Air Force-approved waivers to the
standard group structure. Attachment 2 and Attachment 3 reflect the approved Operations Group struc-
ture for Airlift, Air Mobility, and Air Refueling Wings, respectively.
    4.1. Applicability Statement. This mission directive applies to AMC Air Mobility, Airlift, and Air
    Refueling Wings. It applies to Air National Guard and US Air Force Reserve units, effective on the
    date of the unit’s mobilization.
    4.2. Objective Wing Waivers. Airlift Life Support is aligned under the Operations Support Squad-
    ron as a separate flight for wings possessing the C-5, C-141, and C-17 weapons systems. The Aerial
    Delivery Flight is aligned in the Operations Support Squadron at installations without an Aerial Port
    Squadron. Formal Aircrew Training is aligned under the Operations Support Squadron to conduct air-
    crew training and certification for KC-10 and C-9 aircrew personnel. Flight line aircraft maintenance
AMCMD704 5 MAY 1995                                                                                    3

   for strategic and tanker aircraft is located in the Aircraft Generation Squadron and aligned under the
   Logistics Group. Quality Assurance/Process Improvement functions are realigned to the Logistics
   Group to support aircraft maintenance activities. Traffic Management Flight is aligned in the Aerial
   Port Squadron.
   4.3. Organization Changes. Requests to change the organizational structure must be made IAW
   AFI 38-101. Request must be submitted, with proposed mission directives and organization charts,
   IAW AFPD 10-1 and AFI 38-101 to HQ AMC/XPM for approval.

5. Relationship to Other Units or Agencies. Direct communications by the Operations Group is autho-
rized with HQ AMC in the functional areas not on the Numbered Air Force staff. Interservice support
may be received or provided IAW DODI 4000.19, Interservice, Interdepartmental, and Interagency Sup-
port.

6. Terms Explained. None.



                                        BOBBY O. FLOYD, Brigadier General, USAF
                                        Director, Plans
4                                                                            AMCMD704 5 MAY 1995

                                              Attachment 1

                    FUNCTIONAL STATEMENT FOR OPERATIONS GROUP
Formulates plans, establishes procedures, and directs accomplishment of the assigned mission. Unit
administration support of group commander and staff is provided by operations support squadron.
Standardization and Evaluation
Conducts standardization and evaluation of assigned and squadron level aircrew personnel. Establishes
operating techniques and procedures to ensure aircrew operational efficiency and safety.
Special Operations
Plans, coordinates, schedules, and briefs aircrews on conducting special operations missions.
Special Missions
Plans, coordinates, schedules, and briefs aircrews on conducting special airlift missions.
AMCMD704 5 MAY 1995                                                                                      5

                                              Attachment 2

                   FUNCTIONAL STATEMENT FOR AIRLIFT SQUADRONS
Formulates plans, establishes procedures for, and directs the operation of assigned aircraft in accomplish-
ment of assigned missions. Provides unit administration services for all assigned or attached personnel.
Operations Officer
Plans, organizes, and supervises operational and training missions. Ensures assigned and attached air-
crew members are properly trained and meet proficiency requirements.
Operations Data Management
Performs operations management.
Flight Crews
Performs operational and training missions in assigned aircraft. Maintains crew proficiency by accom-
plishing continuation, upgrade, and on-the-job training, as required. Designated individuals conduct
flight evaluations for assigned aircrew members.
6                                                                            AMCMD704 5 MAY 1995

                                              Attachment 3

               FUNCTIONAL STATEMENT FOR AIR REFUELING SQUADRONS
Formulates plans, establishes procedures for, and directs the operation of assigned aircraft in accomplish-
ment of assigned missions. Where authorized, provides management and oversight for the Companion
Trainer Program. Provides unit administration services for all assigned or attached personnel.
Flight Medicine
Performs flight surgeon duties and attends to medical problems of squadron personnel within the scope of
facilities and equipment available. Maintains medical records for all flight personnel.
Operations Officer
Plans, organizes, and supervises operational and training missions. Ensures assigned and attached air-
crew members are properly trained and meet proficiency requirements.
Operations Data Management
Performs operations management.
Life Support
Provides proper care, use, inspection, and maintenance of life support equipment IAW applicable techni-
cal orders (TOs) and directives. Requisitions, stores, inspects, maintains, and configures aircraft with
required life support equipment. Maintains current file of applicable publications, directives, and TOs.
Provides wing aircrew continuation training program with training augmentees.
Flight Crews
Performs operational and training missions in assigned aircraft. Maintains crew proficiency by accom-
plishing continuation, qualification, and upgrade training, as required. Designated individuals conduct
flight evaluations for assigned aircrew members.
AMCMD704 5 MAY 1995                                                                                      7

                                              Attachment 4

                 FUNCTIONAL STATEMENT FOR HELICOPTER SQUADRON
Formulates plans, establishes procedures for, and directs the operation of assigned aircraft in accomplish-
ment of assigned missions. Provides unit administration services for all assigned or attached personnel.
Operations Officer
Plans, organizes, and supervises operational and training missions. Ensures assigned and attached air-
crew members are properly trained and meet proficiency requirements.
Operations Data Management
Performs operations management.
Life Support
Provides proper care, use, inspection, and maintenance of life support equipment IAW applicable techni-
cal orders (TOs) and directives. Requisitions, stores, inspects, maintains, and configures aircraft with
required life support equipment. Maintains current file of applicable publications, directives, and TOs.
Provides wing aircrew continuation training program with training augmentees.
Flight Crews
Performs operational and training missions in assigned aircraft. Maintains crew proficiency by accom-
plishing continuation, upgrade, and on-the-job training, as required.
Maintenance Officer
Manages resources to provide inspection, launch, recovery, and on-equipment maintenance of assigned
aircraft. May provide assistance with en route and transient aircraft when beyond the capability of Tran-
sient Alert. Ensures logistics training is commensurate with job requirements. Assures capability to
mobilize.
Scheduling
Schedules and coordinates all aircraft maintenance activities.
Unit Training Manager
Administers and implements training policy for the squadron. Serves as the training focal point for all
squadron maintenance personnel. Coordinates training activities and schedules with the Logistics Sup-
port Squadron logistics training flight.
Sortie Generation Flight
Accomplishes all maintenance on aircraft and associated equipment. Provides preflight, basic postflight,
through-flight aircraft servicing, and unscheduled on-equipment maintenance. Accomplishes time com-
pliance technical orders when directed, as well as ground handling, launch, and recovery of aircraft. May
support transient aircraft when requirements exceed the capability of Transient Maintenance.
Sortie Support Flight
Acquires and maintains necessary tools, support equipment, bench stock and 780/-21 equipment, and spe-
cial tools to support flight line maintenance.
8                                                                           AMCMD704 5 MAY 1995

                                             Attachment 5

       FUNCTIONAL STATEMENT FOR AEROMEDICAL EVACUATION SQUADRON
Formulates plans, establishes procedures for, and directs the accomplishment of assigned aeromedical
evacuation mission. Provides unit administration services for all assigned or attached personnel.
Aeromedical Evacuation Management
Manages unit resources, logistics, medical readiness and training, and mobility plans. Provides facility
manager.
In-flight Medical Care
Provides continuity of patient care through preflight assessment and planning, in-flight nursing support,
and postflight evaluation for assigned aeromedical evacuation missions. Provides and maintains aero-
medical crew capability through professional staff development and ground and in-flight aircrew training.
Conducts quality assurance/risk management programs as required.
Standardization/Evaluation
Conducts flight evaluations for assigned flight nurses and aeromedical evacuation technicians.
AMCMD704 5 MAY 1995                                                                                      9

                                              Attachment 6

                  FUNCTIONAL STATEMENT FOR AERIAL PORT SQUADRON
Formulates plans, establishes procedures for, and directs the providing of aerial port support for assigned
and AMC en route aircraft, passengers, and cargo. Trains and deploys personnel to support worldwide
AMC airlift missions. Provides unit administration services for all assigned or attached personnel.
Air Terminal Operations Center Flight
Performs aircraft load planning and airlift capability forecasting. Provides air terminal information con-
trol. Performs lost and damaged cargo investigations. Performs ramp coordination duties, computer
operations, and system administration. Maintains, stations, files, and prepares reports.
Air Freight Flight
Processes and provides intransit cargo storage. On- and off-loads cargo to and from aircraft. Processes,
handles, and provides intransit storage of hazardous and other special category cargo. Provides recooper-
age for intransit freight. Maintains and repairs conveyor systems.
Air Passenger Flight
Determines passenger eligibility. Processes inbound, outbound, and intransit passengers and their bag-
gage. Provides terminal security.
Combat Readiness and Resources Flight
Plans mobility deployment of unit personnel and equipment. Prepares squadron mobility requirements.
Manages unit resources programs.
Traffic Management Flight
Manages and operates the traffic management system for movement of personal property, freight, and
passengers. Located in transportation squadron where there is no aerial port squadron.
Aerial Delivery Flight
Where assigned, builds and rigs airdrop loads and aircraft loads. Packs, repairs, and dries parachutes.
Schedules and coordinates load operations. Performs airdrop inspections, material control, and drop zone
recovery.
Fleet Services Flight
Removes and disposes of aircraft waste. Delivers in-flight meals, potable water, and passenger conve-
nience items. Orders passenger convenience items. Cleans aircraft interiors and galleys.
Mobility Flight
Provides manpower and equipment to conduct cargo and passenger aircraft operations at deployed loca-
tions. Operates in austere conditions. Provides augmentation to fixed aerial port squadrons, en route Air
Mobility Support Squadrons, and CONUS theater locations as required. Trains with host aerial port when
in-garrison.
10                                                                            AMCMD704 5 MAY 1995

                                              Attachment 7

           FUNCTIONAL STATEMENT FOR OPERATIONS SUPPORT SQUADRON
Formulates plans, establishes procedures for, and directs providing current operations, tactics, life sup-
port, intelligence, airfield operations, and weather support to operations squadrons. Provides support to
operations group commander and staff. Provides unit administration services for all assigned or attached
personnel.
Current Operations Flight
Manages annual flying-hour program. Coordinates the integration of squadron schedules into the wing
flying schedule. Manages wing life support operations and aircrew training programs and aircrew flight
records. Manages and conducts group level aircrew academic training. Oversees the database manage-
ment duties for the operations group. Provides quality assurance evaluation of aircrew training contracts
IAW the Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan.
Weapons and Tactics Flight
Supplies technical input related to all aspects of employment of airlift and refueling forces against oppos-
ing forces for the planning of exercises and contingency operations. Develops new tactics and policies,
and provides technical guidance for the airlift and refueling training programs. Manages electronic coun-
termeasures environment training assets. Manages flight operations for the Companion Trainer Program.
Intelligence Flight
Manages, controls, collects, processes, and disseminates intelligence products for planning, operational,
and training purposes. Briefs and debriefs operations personnel on intelligence affecting operational mis-
sions. Provides intelligence support to NAFs, where collocated.
Aerial Delivery Flight
Where assigned, builds and rigs airdrop loads and aircraft loads. Packs, repairs, and dries parachutes.
Schedules and coordinates load operations. Performs airdrop inspections, material control, and drop zone
recovery.
Air Field Operations Flight
Provides air traffic control operations and air field management.
Weather Flight
Manages, collects, processes, and disseminates weather information and products, as requested. Provides
weather support to the NAF, where collocated. Trains and deploys personnel to support worldwide AMC
mobility missions.
Formal Aircrew Training Flight
Manages the formal aircrew training and instruction for aircrew personnel. Conducts initial qualification
and requalification training for weapons systems pilots, flight engineers, and boom operators. Conducts
instructor upgrade, pilot upgrade, and senior staff training. Conducts aircrew phase 1B ground and flight
training. Conducts student evaluations and certifications. Maintains student flight training records.
Ensures accomplishment of all training events prior to certification. Prepares correspondence on the Pro-
grammed Flying Training (PFT) management, waivers, course completion, and recommendations for
AMCMD704 5 MAY 1995                                                                                    11

improvement. Develops, updates, and maintains course curricula, training aids, tapes, and lesson plans.
Attends formal aircrew training conferences. Maintains mission ready status.
Life Support Flight
Provides functional oversight and implements life support policy, procedures, and ensures personnel qual-
ifications, equipment, and manning meet mission requirements. Performs self-assessments, develops and
publishes supplements, and evaluates and assesses life support contingency operations during local exer-
cises. Directs and monitors life support aircrew continuation training programs and certifies personnel
responsible for providing life support training. At Air Mobility Wings, provides oversight of airlift and
tanker life support shops to ensure proper care, use, inspection, and maintenance of life support equip-
ment. Requisitions, stores, inspects, maintains, and configures aircraft with required life support equip-
ment. Maintains current file of applicable publications, directives, and TOs. Provides wing aircrew
continuation training program with training augmentees.
12                                                                  AMCMD704 5 MAY 1995

Figure A7.1. Airlift, Air Refueling & Air Mobility Wing Operations Group.
