BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                        MISSION DIRECTIVE 703
                                                                                             7 JUNE 2004



                                                                  AIR MOBILITY COMMAND WINGS



NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AMC/A51PO (Ms. Mary Lager)                                            Certified by: HQ AMC/A51
                                                                                 (Colonel Gregg A. Clark)
Supersedes AMCMD 703, 18 September 1998                                                            Pages: 6
                                                                                            Distribution: F

This mission directive implements policy guidance in AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives, AFI 10-101, For-
mat and Content of Mission Directive, and AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization. The mission directive
defines the mission, command, responsibilities, and organization of the Air Mobility Command (AMC)
wings. It also applies to the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve units, effective upon the date of
unit activation.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.


1. Mission.
   1.1. Airlift Wings: Transport and deliver forces and materiel through the air. Perform passenger and
   cargo movement; combat employment and resupply; aeromedical evacuation; and special operations
   support to achieve strategic-, operational-, and tactical-level objectives across the spectrum of con-
   flict. Support validated customer requests for airlift from other Services, DoD agencies, the military
   forces of allied nations, and US government as well as non-governmental organizations in accordance
   with a Joint Chiefs of Staff priority system. Support expeditionary units with deployed forces involved
   in operations or exercises.
   1.2. Air Refueling Wings: Refuel aircraft in flight, which extends presence, increases range, and
   allows air forces to bypass areas of potential problem. Performs OPLAN 8044 support; global attack
   support, air bridge support; deployment support; theater support to combat air forces; and special
   operations system to achieve strategic-, operational-, and tactical-level objectives across the spectrum
   of conflict. Augment core airlift assets and retain capability to perform an airlift role, under the dual
   role concept, of transporting a combination of passengers and cargo while performing air refueling.
   Support expeditionary units with deployed forces involved in operations or exercises.
   1.3. Air Mobility Wings: Perform a combination of missions from both airlift and air refueling wings.
2                                                                          AMCMD703 7 JUNE 2004


2. Command. AMC wings, 317th Airlift Group, 463d Airlift Group, and 19th Air Refueling Group
(AMC’s Independent Groups) are assigned to 18th Air Force, Scott AFB IL.

3. Responsibilities.
    3.1. Wing leadership will address all non-warfighting (i.e., policy, organizing, training, and equip-
    ping) and appropriate support issues directly with the AMC staff for resolution. Wing CC and /or staff
    directors will keep the 18th Air Force leadership informed of those issues.
    3.2. Wing staff leadership:
       3.2.1. Base Museum (MU) (Dover AFB DE). Directs an approved museum. Provides professional
       advice to the commander on all matters relating to the museum.
       3.2.2. Career Assistant Advisor (CCCA). Provides career information to assist base personnel in
       making well informed career decisions.
       3.2.3. Chaplain (HC). Provides for worship and religious education. Performs pastoral care. Pro-
       vides ministry of presence, rites, and sacraments. Provides professional advice and pastoral guid-
       ance to commanders in all matters pertaining to religious expression, religious conviction, the
       accommodation of practices arising from religious faith, ethical leadership and decision-making,
       and moral reasoning.
       3.2.4. Command Post (CP). Operates a 24-hour operations and maintenance aircraft coordination
       center.
       3.2.5. Comptroller Squadron/Flight (FM). Provides financial advice, analysis, and services
       including budget requirements, execution and analysis, cost and economic analysis, pay services,
       and accounting.
       3.2.6. History (HO). Conducts the wing historical program to provide an objective, comprehen-
       sive, and unbiased history of the wing’s activities, developments, problems, and accomplishments.
       Provides historical data for use as a management tool.
       3.2.7. Judge Advocate (JA). Renders legal advice, including military justice, adverse administra-
       tive actions, and general civil law, to commanders and staff. Administers operational and mobility
       law program. Provides personal legal assistance to eligible personnel. Manages all claims and lit-
       igation for and against the government.
       3.2.8. Manpower and Organization (MO). Provides manpower management support to include
       productivity, A-76 Cost Comparison, and the manpower portion of the Contingency Personnel
       Control System. Manages, updates, and executes the Base Manpower Data Systems, providing
       manpower documents. Administers the wing idea program. Note: MO will be realigned as a flight
       under the Mission Support Squadron beginning Jun 04.
       3.2.9. Military Equal Opportunity (ME). Provides programs to promote diversity awareness,
       equal opportunity, and equal treatment. Conducts human relations education.
       3.2.10. Protocol (CCP). Manages reception of military and civilian visitors and the commander’s
       amenities program and contingency fund. Provides advice and instructions for change of com-
       mand, retirement of senior officers, and presentation of decorations.
AMCMD703 7 JUNE 2004                                                                                3


     3.2.11. Public Affairs (PA). Advises commander and staff on issues affecting internal, media, and
     community relations. Conducts internal and external information programs to build and maintain
     support for the Air Force and mission capabilities through effective communication.
     3.2.12. Safety (SE). Conducts weapon, flight, and ground safety programs.
     3.2.13. Senior Enlisted Advisor (CCC). Keeps commander informed on matters affecting the wel-
     fare, morale, and effective utilization of assigned enlisted personnel.
     3.2.14. Plans (XP). Develops all wing operational plans. Controls overall plan execution. Execu-
     tive agent for wing Crisis Action Team. Develops and evaluates exercises.



                                                 PAUL W. ESSEX, Major General, USAF
                                                 Director of Plans and Programs
4                                                        AMCMD703 7 JUNE 2004


                                          Attachment 1

               GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-101, Format and Content of Mission Directives
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization
AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AMC—Air Mobility Command
DoD—Department of Defense
AMCMD703 7 JUNE 2004                                  5


                                Attachment 2

                       AMC WINGS/INDEPENDENT GROUPS
6                                     AMCMD703 7 JUNE 2004


                   Attachment 3

    AMC WING/GROUPS/SQUADRONS/STAFF AGENCIES
