BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                   AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                         MISSION DIRECTIVE 719
                                                                                      9 NOVEMBER 2005



                                                                    CONTINGENCY RESPONSE WING



NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AMC/A51PO (Ms. Mary Lager)                                            Certified by: HQ AMC/A51
                                                                                 (Colonel Gregg A. Clark)
                                                                                                   Pages: 8
                                                                                            Distribution: F

This mission directive implements policy guidance in AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives, AFPD 38-1, Orga-
nization, and AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization. It applies to the Contingency Response Wing. Its pur-
pose is to prescribe mission, organization, and processes. It applies to the Air National Guard and Air
Force Reserve units, effective upon the date of unit activation. Ensure all records in this publication are
maintained and disposed of in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.


1. Mission. The Air Force’s (AF) global reach crisis response force. Rapidly deploy tailorable,
multi-role, multi-skilled, expeditionary mobility teams, organized to quickly assess and effectively open
forward contingency airbases and conduct air mobility support operations anywhere in the world.
   1.1. This publication applies only to the Air National Guard (ANG) United States Title 10 status.

2. Command. The Contingency Response Wing (CRW) is assigned to the Expeditionary Mobility Task
Force (EMTF).

3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. Exercise command authority over the respective Contingency Response Groups (CRGs), Global
   Support Squadrons (GSSs) and Air Mobility Liaison Officers (AMLOs) at their Operating Locations
   (OLs) for organization, control of resources and equipment, personnel management, logistics, train-
   ing, readiness, mobilization, demobilization, discipline, and any other appropriate matters. Coordi-
   nates with higher headquarters on mobilization and demobilization of Air Reserve Component (ARC)
   mobile C2 forces.
NOTE: ANG retains Administrative Control of forces activated under Title 10 US Code) volunteerism
(12301[d]), Presidential Reserve Call-up (12304), and Partial Mobilization (12302).
   3.2. Ensures mission-ready airfield assessment teams, airfield operations, command and control (C2),
   aerial port, quick-turn aircraft maintenance, weather, intelligence, air traffic control, security forces,
2                                                                     AMCMD719 9 NOVEMBER 2005


    finance, fuels, supply, and contracting personnel are available to project and sustain combat forces
    worldwide.
    3.3. Provides combatant commanders with initial Airbase Opening (ABO) and air mobility support
    capability during wartime, contingency, or other USTRANSCOM/AMC directed missions. Extends
    air mobility operations worldwide by deploying task organized mobility teams (CRG, Contingency
    Response Group Element (CRG-E), Mission Support Team (MST), or Mission Support Element
    (MSE)) capable of airbase assessment, initial C2, cargo and passenger handling, in-transit visibility
    (ITV), quick-turn aircraft maintenance, self protection security, air traffic control, and airfield opera-
    tions.
    3.4. Coordinates with higher headquarters on Mission Essential Task development, mission perfor-
    mance planning, and reporting.
    3.5. Coordinates with the host wing on deployment processes in support of CRW assigned forces.
    3.6. Responsible for oversight of deployed unit sustainment, resupply, and in-garrison reconstitution.
    3.7. Coordinates with higher headquarters and theater command staffs for sustainment and resupply
    of USTRANSCOM-retained deployed forces.
    3.8. Coordinates integration of Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS) augmentation required to sup-
    port the CRG, CRG-Es, MST, or MSE for specific missions.
    3.9. Organizes, trains, equips and postures CRGs/CRG-Es/MSTs/MSEs for support short-notice task-
    ings in accordance with applicable directives.
    3.10. Selects, trains, and equips Air Mobility Liaison Officers for assignment with Army and Marine
    division-level units.
    3.11. Provides CRGs/CRG-Es/MSTs/MSEs as Air and Space Expeditionary Force capabilities; pro-
    vides presentation of enablers through USTRANSCOM/AMC to the Combatant Commander and
    Joint Community when airbase opening is required.
    3.12. Deploys a Director of Mobility Forces when directed.

4. Wing Command Chief (CCC). Serves as the principal advisor to the CRW/Commander and staff on
matters of health, welfare, morale, and the proper utilization of enlisted personnel within the wing.

5. Safety (SE).
    5.1. Advises the commander on hazard mitigation to preserve assets and enhance mission capability.
    5.2. Analyzes trends to establish mishap reduction objectives, develop mishap prevention policy, and
    identify opportunities for improvement.
    5.3. Manages wing safety training and education program for CRW personnel.
    5.4. Develops and oversees CRW safety program.
    5.5. Schedules, conducts, and reports on safety inspections accomplished IAW MAJCOM and wing
    regulations.
    5.6. Reports and follows-up on significant safety issues to the MAJCOM , through the CRW/CC.
AMCMD719 9 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                                  3


6. Standardization and Evaluation (DOV).
   6.1. Advises the commander on operations policy and execute wing evaluations and inspections.
   6.2. Ensures wing compliance with administrative, operations, training requirements, and AF and
   Major Command (MAJCOM) regulations.
   6.3. Proposes, advocates, and coordinates development/advancement of Tactics, Training, and Proce-
   dures to the HQ AMC/A31 for applicable mobility operations.

7. Plans and Programs (XP).
   7.1. Executes contingency plans and conducts realistic readiness exercises ensuring CRW assets can
   respond to any global contingency.
   7.2. Ensures deployment marshalling, processing, and execution in accordance with applicable direc-
   tives in a safe and efficient manner; recommends improvements in deployment processes and proce-
   dures.
   7.3. Responsible for management of the CRW Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS)/
   AEF UTC Reporting Tool (ART) programs. Compiles and coordinates CRW SORTS/ART reports.
   7.4. Tracks, validates, and coordinates mission after action reports; distributes to the MAJCOM for
   review and action.

8. Command. The Contingency Response Group (CRG) is assigned to the Contingency Response Wing.

9. Mission. The AF’s global reach crisis response force capable of supporting both “Open the Airbase”
(OTA) and Global Air Mobility Support System (GAMSS) missions. Rapidly deploy tailorable,
multi-role, multi-skilled, expeditionary mobility teams, organized to quickly assess and initially open for-
ward contingency airbases and conduct air mobility support operations anywhere in the world.

10. Responsibilities.
   10.1. Ensures ability to mesh seamlessly with seizure forces as the embodiment of the OTA Force
   Module (FM) and to bridge operations between the subsequent four Airbase Opening FMs.
   10.2. Ensures ability to rapidly deploy and establish air mobility support operations projecting
   GAMSS anywhere in the world.
   10.3. Trains and equips Global Mobility Squadron (GMS) and Global Mobility Readiness Squadron
   (GMRS) personnel to deploy as integral mobility teams, providing planning, assessment, and execu-
   tion expertise to assess, open, initially operate, and transition an airbase to follow-on forces, as the
   core of the “Open the Airbase” force module capability.
   10.4. Ensures mission-ready airfield assessment teams, airfield operations, command and control
   (C2), aerial port, quick-turn aircraft maintenance, weather, intelligence, air traffic control, security
   forces, finance, fuels, supply, and contracting personnel are available to project and sustain air mobil-
   ity and air combat forces worldwide. Prepares for follow-on forces transition and retasking.
   10.5. Integrates ECS augmentation required to support the specific mission.
4                                                                      AMCMD719 9 NOVEMBER 2005


11. Command. The GMS is assigned to the Contingency Response Group.

12. Mission. The AF’s global reach crisis response force. Rapidly deploy tailorable, multi-role,
multi-skilled, expeditionary mobility teams, organized to quickly assess and effectively open forward
contingency airbases and conduct air mobility support operations anywhere in the world.

13. Responsibilities.
    13.1. Deploys with GMRS, as part of a tailorable multi-skilled mobility team. Provides planning,
    assessment, and execution expertise to assess, open, initially operate, and transition an airbase to fol-
    low-on forces, as the core of the “Open the Airbase” force module capability or air mobility support
    operations.
    13.2. Ensures mission-ready C2, aerial port, quick-turn aircraft maintenance, and weather personnel
    are available to project and sustain combat forces worldwide. Prepares for follow-on forces transition
    and retasking.
    13.3. Coordinates with GSS to ensure readiness of C2, aerial port, and maintenance unit type codes
    (UTCs) equipment.
    13.4. Deploys personnel as CRG, CRG-E, MST, or MSE complement.

14. Command. The Global Mobility Response Squadron (GMRS) is assigned to the Contingency
Response Group.

15. Mission. The AF’s global reach crisis response force. Rapidly deploy tailorable, multi-role,
multi-skilled, expeditionary mobility teams, organized to quickly assess and effectively open forward
contingency airbases and conduct air mobility support operations anywhere in the world.

16. Responsibilities.
    16.1. Deploys with the GMS as part of a multi-skilled mobility team. Provides planning, and execu-
    tion expertise to open, initially operate, and transition an airbase to follow-on forces, as the core of the
    “Open the Airbase” force module capability.
    16.2. Ensures mission-ready self protection security, air traffic control, intelligence, finance, fuels,
    supply, and contracting personnel are available to project and sustain combat forces worldwide. Pre-
    pares for follow-on forces transition and retasking.
    16.3. Coordinates with GSS to ensure readiness of force protection, air traffic control, and operations
    support UTCs equipment.
    16.4. Deploys personnel as CRG, CRG-E, MST, or MSE complement.

17. Command. The GSS is assigned to the Contingency Response Wing.

18. Mission. The AF’s global reach crisis response force. Rapidly deploy tailorable, multi-skilled, expe-
ditionary mobility teams, organized to conduct air mobility support operations anywhere in the world.
Augments CRGs and provides all CRW mission support functions. Stores and maintains CRW deploy-
able equipment and directs and manages CRW qualification training programs.
AMCMD719 9 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                        5


19. Responsibilities.
   19.1. Delivers CRG-E, MST, MSE teams consisting of mission-ready C2, aerial port, and aircraft
   maintenance personnel to support and extend air mobility operations worldwide.
   19.2. Responsible for readiness of all CRW UTC equipment.
   19.3. Provides mission support functions for all organizations within the CRW.
   19.4. Primary source of replacement personnel for CRG shortfall and augmentation of CRG person-
   nel for exercises and contingencies.
   19.5. Manages aircraft load planning program (Affiliation Training) for the CRW.



                                             THOMAS P. KANE, Major General, USAF
                                             Director of Plans and Programs
6                                                       AMCMD719 9 NOVEMBER 2005


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization
AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives
AFPD 38-1, Organization

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABO—Air Base Opening
AF—Air Force
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMLO—Air Mobility Liaison Officer
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component
ATC—Air Traffic Control
CC—Commander
CCC—Command Chief
C2—Command and Control
CRG—Contingency Response Group
CRGE—Contingency Response Group Element
CRW—Contingency Response Wing
DOV—Standardization and Evaluation
ECS—Expeditionary Combat Support
EMTF—Expeditionary Mobility Task Force
GAMSS—Global Air Mobility Support System
GMS—Global Mobility Squadron
GMRS—Global Mobility Readiness Squadron
GSS—Global Support Squadron
ITV—In-Transit Visibility
MAJCOM—Major Command
MHE—Mission Handling Equipment
MST—Mission Support Team
AMCMD719 9 NOVEMBER 2005                    7


MSE—Mission Support Element
OLs—Operating Locations
SE—Safety
TCTO—Time Compliance Technical Order
USTC—United States Transportation Command
UTC—Unit Type Code
XP—Plans and Programs
8                          AMCMD719 9 NOVEMBER 2005


            Attachment 2

    CONTINGENCY RESPONSE WING
