BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       AIR MOBILITY COMMAND MISSION
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                            DIRECTIVE 709
                                                                                         10 MARCH 2007



                                                              89TH COMMUNICATIONS SQUADRON



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AMC/A1MPO                                     Certified by: HQ AMC/A1M (Mr. Larry P. Davis)
Supersedes AMCMD 709, 6 June 2003                                                         Pages: 6

This mission directive implements policy guidance in AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives, AFPD 38-1, Orga-
nization, and AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization. It applies to the 89th Communications Squadron (CS),
Andrew AFB MD. Its purpose is to prescribe mission, organization, and processes. It applies to Air
Mobility Command (AMC) active duty units, the Air National Guard, and Air Force Reserve units, effec-
tive upon the date of unit activation. Ensure all records in this publication are maintained and disposed of
in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and the Air Force Records Disposition
located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This mission directive has been substantially changed and must be completely reviewed. It updates, clar-
ifies, and streamlines the mission, functional statements, and organizational structure.


1. Mission: Operates and maintains global air-to-ground command and control systems that provide glo-
bal secure and nonsecure voice and data for the President, national leaders, Department of Defense
(DOD), and Special Air Missions. Operates the centralized network control station for DOD’s global high
frequency (HF) radio system.

2. Organization and Responsibilities: The 89th Communications Squadron is assigned to the 89th Air-
lift Support Group. The organizational chart is located at Attachment 2.
   2.1. Commander (CC). Provides leadership, discipline, morale, welfare, health, and training of
   assigned and attached personnel of the 89th Communications Squadron. Manages required resources
   to meet mission requirements. Implements directives, orders, and regulations. Formulates plans and
   policies. Convenes and appoints boards. Coordinates and interfaces with other agencies, as required.
   Maintains and enforces standards.
2                                                                     AMCMD709 10 MARCH 2007


    2.2. Mission Systems (SCM). Provides technical and systems support for communications and com-
    puter systems including Wideband Tri-Link, Mystic Star Global Entry Point, High Frequency Global
    Communications System (HFGCS), Antenna Maintenance and Radio Maintenance.
    2.3. Power Production HVAC (SCMB). The power production and heating, ventilation, air-condi-
    tioning function maintains back-up power and environmental systems, which support the HFGCS,
    Defense Information Systems Network, Mystic Star and the Executive Airborne Communications
    Network.
    2.4. Radio Systems (SCME). Function is responsible for maintaining RF systems (HFGCS, UHF
    Mystic Star, and Tri-link).
    2.5. Ground Radio Operations (SCMG). Maintains Network Control Station, providing worldwide
    HF and ultrahigh frequency (UHF) satellite voice and data communications to the President aboard
    Air Force One, senior military and government officials aboard senior executive airlift mission air-
    craft, command and control aircraft, and airlift and air refueling mission aircraft.
       2.5.1. Maintains the Strategic Automated Command and Control System and the Simultaneous
       Interpretation System.
       2.5.2. Maintains and administers the HFGCS E-mail network. Maintenance functions trouble-
       shoots and repairs faults, removes and replaces defective components/line replaceable units on
       voice switches, consoles, multiplexers, servers, etc.
    2.6. Systems Support (SCMQ). Provides job control, materiel control, quality assurance and sys-
    tems training management support for the communications squadron.
    2.7. Radio Maintenance (SCMR). Installs and maintains a complete ground communications
    equipment system in support of all AMC and 89th Airlift Wing senior executive air mission.
       2.7.1. Installs and maintains ground-to-air equipment and electronic telephone switching equip-
       ment for senior executive air missions within the Washington District of Columbia community.
       2.7.2. Responsible for maintaining the HF, very high frequency, UHF and microwave parabolic
       antennas and associated equipment supporting missions for Mystic Star, HFGCS, and the wide-
       band Tri-link.
       2.7.3. Provides support for the Camp David tactical air navigation system antenna.
    2.8. Operations Support (SCO). Provides technical and systems support for communications and
    computer systems including HF global stations, UHF Mystic Star Satellite Communications (SAT-
    COM), and Government Ground Entry Points (GGEPs).
    2.9. Radio Operations (SCOD). Operates and monitors 13 HF global stations 24 hours a day/7 days
    a week.
       2.9.1. Disseminates emergency action messages (EAMs) and aircraft advisories from/to the 13
       HF stations. Provides operator aided telephone patches from/to the 13 HF stations for air, land,
       and sea platforms.
       2.9.2. Coordinates HF global activities with outside agencies, including the United States Strate-
       gic Command (USSTRATCOM) command center, the recon centers, and the Tanker Airlift Con-
       trol Center (TACC).
AMCMD709 10 MARCH 2007                                                                                3


     2.9.3. Provides data operations with National Airborne Operations Center, Airborne Command
     Post, National Military Command Center, Airborne Warning and Control System, and Mystic Star
     operations to support air platforms requiring message injection services.
     2.9.4. Monitors and provides troubleshooting services for UHF Mystic Star SATCOM. Supports
     Chairman, Joint Chief of Staff, Combatant Commanders exercises and United States military
     operations.
     2.9.5. Provides Internet service provider such as HF-E-mail Secure Internet Protocol Router Net-
     work and Nonsecure Internet Protocol Router Network support for DOD mobile platforms from/
     to the 13 stations.
     2.9.6. Manages HFGCS by overseeing scheduled outages to maintain the system and provides
     technical expertise on life-cycle sustaining activities to include equipment and software upgrades.
     2.9.7. Provides communications support to the USAF Chief of Staff; Chiefs of North, Central, and
     South American Air Forces; Air Attaches; and military aircraft within the Information and Tele-
     communications System of the American Air Forces network.
     2.9.8. Provides phone patches and disseminates messages over HF radio and electronic mail via
     the Internet in English and Spanish.
     2.9.9. Obtains and distributes weather and aircraft movement information for member countries.
     2.9.10. Provides communications conference support as required.
     2.9.11. Operates a coordination center and audiovisual equipment during System of Cooperation
     among the American Air Forces-sponsored conferences and symposiums.
     2.9.12. Conducts joint and combined communications exercises with Latin American Forces.
     2.9.13. Operates and monitors 7 HF global stations 24/7 (with capability to surge to 13 during an
     Network Control Station-East (NCS-E) outage and/or crisis).
     2.9.14. Disseminates EAMs and aircraft advisories from the 7 HF stations (13 during NCS-E out-
     ages) within minutes of receipt from command authorities and recon centers.
     2.9.15. Provides operator aided telephone patches from 7 HF stations (13 during NCS-E outages)
     for air, land, sea and platforms.
     2.9.16. Utilizes two operator supervisors to coordinate HF global activities with outside agencies
     including USSTRATCOM command center, recon centers and TACC.
     2.9.17. Supports air platforms requiring message injection services. Monitors and provides trou-
     bleshooting services for UHF Mystic Star SATCOM support.
  2.10. Senior Leadership Communications (SCOE). Includes Executive Airborne Communications
  Network, Help Desk and Network Defender.
     2.10.1. Provides broadband airborne connectivity to the President, Vice President, Cabinet Level
     Secretaries and visiting dignitaries as required.
     2.10.2. Monitors and provides on the spot troubleshooting for any connectivity problems and
     equipment problems between the aircraft and GGEPs.
4                                                                     AMCMD709 10 MARCH 2007


       2.10.3. Administers the operation and configurations of system firewalls, routers, switches and
       network management servers.
       2.10.4. Works as a liaison between all aircraft and other outside service providers to ensure 24/7
       connectivity.
       2.10.5. Focal point for Mystic Star mission performance, system health, and outage resolution to
       outside agencies.
    2.11. Plans, Policy, and Resources (SCX). Manages activities related to command, control, com-
    munications and computers systems planning: plans support, including mobility/deployment plan-
    ning, strategic planning, and requirements analysis; implementation, including architectures,
    integration, direction, and standards.



                                              SHARON K. G. DUNBAR, Colonel, USAF
                                              Director of Manpower and Personnel
AMCMD709 10 MARCH 2007                                          5


                                       Attachment 1

               GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT INFORMATION

References
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization
AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives
AFPD 38-1, Organization

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AMC—Air Mobility Command
CS—Communications Squadron
EAMs—Emergency Action Messages
DOD—Department of Defense
GGEPs—Government Ground Entry Points
HF—High Frequency
HFGCS—High Frequency Global Communications System
NCS-E—Network Control Station-East
SATCOM—Satellite Communications
TACC—Tanker/Airlift Control Center
UHF—Ultrahigh Frequency
USSTRATCOM—United States Strategic Command
6                                   AMCMD709 10 MARCH 2007


                     Attachment 2

    89TH COMMUNICATIONS SQUADRON ANDREWS AFB MD
