BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     AIR MOBILITY COMMAND PAMPHLET 36-3
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                                28 APRIL 2011

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                           AMC SECURITY FORCES ORDER
                                                                      OF THE BAYONET



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AMC/A7SM                                                    Certified by: HQ AMC/A7S
                                                                     (Col Richard D. McComb)
Supersedes:   AMCPAM36-3, 17 Nov                                                      Pages: 5
              1995


This pamphlet is a guide for security forces to nominate persons for the Order of the Bayonet. It
gives guidance on approval and presentation of the award. It applies to all AMC active duty and
gained Air National Guard and Reserve Associate units. Ensure all records in this publication are
maintained and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route the AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This pamphlet provides minor revisions and therefore, does not require a complete review. This
version further clarifies the nomination process, the required number of ceremonial formation
participants and their required uniform (Airmen Battle Uniform).
1. Order of the Bayonet:
   1.1. The bayonet is a close-in defensive weapon used as a last resort to prevent being
   overrun by an attacker. The primary wartime mission of the security forces is defending air
   bases and the resources they contain. The security forces must defeat the enemy close-in to
   be successful; therefore, the bayonet is symbolic of the security forces mission.
 2                                                               AMCPAM36-3 28 APRIL 2011


     1.2. The AMC Order of the Bayonet was established in 1981 to recognize those who have
     made significant contributions to security, training, and the ground defense of Air Mobility
     Command Installations The order originally had two classes; commander (for those whose
     contributions have been highly significant and affect major programs) and defender (for
     others making major contributions). A third class, support, was added in 1995.
        1.2.1. COMMANDER CLASS: Nominees must be assigned against an "A" prefix or
        "C" billet, minimum grade of O-3. Candidates must have a record of continuous, direct
        involvement in security and/or base defense matters. Nominees should clearly be leaders
        in all areas.
        1.2.2. DEFENDER CLASS: Nominees must have clearly been leaders in security and
        base defense throughout their careers. Nominations should highlight specific
        achievements across a broad spectrum which have significantly impacted personnel and
        programs. Nominees may currently be in staff or unit leadership positions, should be at
        least the grade of E-6 (any rank for a specific heroic act), and a person who has
        continuously led and trained troops.
        1.2.3. SUPPORT CLASS: Nominees in this category may be any rank, any occupation,
        military or civilian. This category is created to recognize the spectacular efforts of those
        who have helped defenders train, prepare for, and conduct our contingency and wartime
        tasks.
2. Procedures for Nomination:
     2.1. Any AMC or AMC gained ANG or Associate AFRC personnel may nominate a person
     or persons to be inducted into the AMC Order of the Bayonet. Nominations should be in
     letter format, clearly identifying the member/member’s significant contributions to Air
     Mobility Command. Nominations should include a citation (Atch 1). E-mail nominations to
     the HQ AMC/SFM, or send hard copy nominations to:
HQ AMC/A7SFM
507 Symington Drive
Bldg P40 North, Suite N229
Scott AFB IL 62225-5022


     2.2. All AMC unit Security Forces Managers and the AMC/SFM review submissions;
     nominations must be approved by two thirds majority for final consideration. The AMC
     Chief of Security Forces is the final approving authority for all submissions.
     2.3. If approved, the nominator is responsible for arranging an appropriate ceremony.
3. Representative Ceremony: (if manpower is available)
     3.1. The ceremonial formation forms with either one 44-member flight or two 13-member
     squads facing the presentation area.
     3.2. The bayonet detail (consisting of the presenter and four guards) forms between flights
     (or squads) facing the presentation area.
AMCPAM36-3 28 APRIL 2011                                                                         3


  3.3. The commander of troops is in front of the formation facing the troops and bayonet
  detail.
  3.4. The escort detail (consisting of two persons) is with the recipient in a location out of
  view of the presentation area. NOTE: All participants (except the recipient) are dressed in
  Airmen Battle Uniforms (ABUs) with web belts. Flight or squad members, four bayonet
  detail persons, and escorts are armed with M-4 rifles with bayonets fixed, unsheathed, and
  the bayonet scabbard fixed to the right side of the web belt. The commander of troops, flight
  or squad leaders, narrator for the Order of the Bayonet, and the person presenting the order
  have the bayonet sheathed and fixed to the right side of the web belt.
  3.5. The commander of troops commands: "Group, attention," then does an about face and
  faces the presentation area.
  3.6. The commander of troops commands: "Escort detail, front and center."
  3.7. The escort detail enters flanking recipient, takes position, and faces the commander of
  troops and the formation.
  3.8. The commander of troops commands: "Present arms." The recipient returns salute.
  3.9. The commander of troops commands: "Order arms," then "parade rest."
  3.10. The narrator describes the Order of the Bayonet.
  3.11. The commander of troops orders: "Group, attention; bayonet detail." The commander
  makes a left flanking movement to get out of the way of the bayonet detail, stops when clear
  of the first flight, and faces forward.
  3.12. The bayonet detail comes forward and stops in front of the recipient.
  3.13. The bayonet detail commander commands: "Present arms," then "center move."
  3.14. The bayonet detail executes left and right faces as does the escort detail, so they are
  forming a rectangle around the detail commander and the recipient.
  3.15. The narrator reads the citation to accompany the award of the Order of the Bayonet.
  3.16. Upon completion of the citation, the presenter steps forward, presents the award, and
  steps backward. Then, the bayonet detail commander commands: "Ready front."
  3.17. The bayonet detail faces (left and right) to the front again.
  3.18. The escort detail faces the bayonet detail.
  3.19. The detail commander salutes and commands: "Port arms," then "about face" and
  "forward march." Upon reaching its original position, the commander commands: "Detail,
  halt," then "about face."
  3.20. Upon departure of the bayonet detail, the commander of troops resumes the original
  position in front of the recipient, facing honor flights/squads and the bayonet detail, then asks
  the recipient to make comments.
  3.21. At the conclusion of the recipient's comments, the commander of troops orders
  "Present arms," then does an about face and salutes as a mark of honor and a highlight of
  every ceremony. The salute is held until the recipient is out of sight.
 4                                                               AMCPAM36-3 28 APRIL 2011


     3.22. The escort detail and the recipient make a left face and march out of the presentation
     area.
     3.23. After the recipient departs the presentation area, the commander of troops does an
     about face and orders: "Order arms," then, "flight/squad leaders, dismiss your flights/squads."
     3.24. The narrator informs spectators: "This concludes the ceremony." NOTE: The above
     description is a typical ceremony. It may be modified for presentation inside a building to
     meet space requirements or availability of SF personnel. However, a bayonet detail,
     consisting of a person to present the award, and four bayonet guards are always included in
     the ceremony.
4. Description of the Order of the Bayonet Award:
     4.1. The bayonet is enclosed in a 21 by 17-inch shadow box. The top engraving plate is 12
     by 1 1/2 inches and the bottom engraving plate is 12 by 4 1/2 inches.
        4.1.1. Commander Class: Background in the shadow box is black velvet; the chrome-
        plated bayonet is mounted between the engraved plates.
        4.1.2. Defender Class: Background is ABU; the bayonet is regular, blued, mounted
        between the engraved plates.
        4.1.3. Support Class: Background is dark blue velvet; the bayonet is regular, blued,
        mounted between the engraved plates.




                                              THERESA C. CARTER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Director, Installations and Mission Support
AMCPAM36-3 28 APRIL 2011                                                                5


                                      Attachment 1
                 ORDER OF THE BAYONET CITATION (EXAMPLE)

Figure A1. Order of the Bayonet Citation (Example)
                                EXAMPLE
                       CITATION TO ACCOMPANY THE
                    AWARD OF THE ORDER OF THE BAYONET
                                   TO
                               (Rank)(Name)

(Name) displayed dedicated and sincere support for the security and ground defense
mission within Air Mobility
Command. Recognizing deficiencies in security capabilities, (he or she) provided personal
guidance and directed acquisition of resources which resulted in Air Mobility Command
defenders becoming the best equipped and trained security and base defense forces in the
United States Air Force. (Name)'s association with security forces men and women through
unit visits, participation in security forces conferences, and competition in firearm's
matches have earned (her or him) the defender's highest loyalty and respect. We salute
(him or her) by bestowing our highest symbol of honor, "The Order of the Bayonet."
