BY ORDER OF THE                                                                  AMC PAMPHLET 31-2
COMMANDER AIR MOBILITY COMMAND                                                          1 September 1994
                                                                            Certified current 21 April 2010
                                                                                                  Security

                                                                  AIR RESERVE COMPONENT (ARC)
                                                                            ADVISORY PROGRAM



NOTICE: A copy of this publication can be found digitally at http: www.safb.af.mil:80/hqamc/pa/pubs/
pubhome2.htm. If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AMC/SPXX                                                               Certified by: HQ AMC/SP
       (MSgt Kerry T. Coleman)                                                  (Col Brian Y. Shiroyama)
Supersedes AMCR 207-6, 23 April 1992.                                                           Pages: 14
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This pamphlet provides guidance and information for accomplishing advisory responsibilities. It also
covers areas considered essential in maintaining a viable advisory program. It implements AFPD 31-3,
Air Base Defense. It is not intended to supplement or supersede any regulatory material; it is for informa-
tion only.



1. Objective. The Security Police Advisory Program objective is to ensure that AMC-gained Air
National Guard (ANG) and US Air Force Reserve (USAFR) units, security police flights (SPF), and law
enforcement elements are combat-ready to effectively accomplish their wartime missions when mobi-
lized.

2. Types of Air Reserve Components:
   2.1. USAFR associate security police squadrons (ASPS):
       2.1.1. USAFR ASPSs are located at each AMC aerial port base (Charleston, Dover, McChord,
       McGuire, and Travis).
       2.1.2. ASPS personnel train with the active security force using active duty unit facilities and
       equipment.
       2.1.3. During unit training assemblies (UTA) and active duty training tours, active security police
       units will provide appropriate training and trainers.
       2.1.4. When mobilized, the ASPS will be totally integrated with the active unit.
       2.1.5. The host-base chief of security police:
           2.1.5.1. Provides an office for the ASPS commander in or close to the host security police
           operations building.
           2.1.5.2. Consolidates the ASPS training function and equipment with the host.
2                                                                     AMCPAM31-2 1 September 1994

           2.1.5.3. Schedules and conducts training to coincide with the availability of ASPS personnel.
           2.1.5.4. Provides the ASPS commander guidance on the required training for personnel.
           2.1.5.5. Ensures the ASPS commander is given the opportunity to train in their wartime skill
           or position.
           2.1.5.6. Identifies training requirements and provides qualified personnel to conduct the train-
           ing.
           2.1.5.7. Ensures ASPS training is according to AFI 36-2225 and host training requirements.
           2.1.5.8. Projects a 6-month training schedule for ASPSs.
           2.1.5.9. Conducts security program exercises during ASPS UTAs and during annual active
           duty training.
           2.1.5.10. Provides required organizational equipment necessary for ASPS personnel to train
           and perform the unit mission.
           2.1.5.11. Ensures host personnel understand the mission of the ASPS.
           2.1.5.12. Requisitions and maintains required deployment equipment if the host unit plans to
           task the ASPS to maintain the capability of deploying some or all of their personnel during
           contingencies or general war.
       2.1.6. During non-mobilized status, the ASPS commander is responsible for administering con-
       trol and discipline.
    2.2. ANG security police squadrons (SPS) (active duty bases, civilian airports, or ANG bases):
       2.2.1. ANG SPSs located on active duty bases:
           2.2.1.1. The host-base chief of security police is responsible for providing a single, integrated
           physical security operation.
           2.2.1.2. The host security police unit responsible for training will provide trainers, as well as
           schedule and conduct training to coincide with SPS personnel availability.
           2.2.1.3. When the host security police unit has only a law enforcement function, the host pro-
           vides training applicable to all security police units. This includes all subjects listed in AFIND
           3 that are common to both security and law enforcement functions.
           2.2.1.4. Where possible, ANG personnel will integrate with host security police during UTAs
           for training purposes.
           2.2.1.5. Where state jurisdictions have set up unique confrontation management training
           requirements for ANG personnel, the ANG commander may waive confrontation manage-
           ment training required by the recurring training program.
       2.2.2. ANG SPSs located on ANG bases:
           2.2.2.1. The SPS commander must appoint a qualified security police noncommissioned
           officer (NCO) to administer the training program.
           2.2.2.2. State contract guards normally staff ANG bases. These guards may or may not be
           members of the ANG SPS unit.
AMCPAM31-2 1 September 1994                                                                               3

           2.2.2.3. By ANG directive, the security police technician is designated as the chief of security
           police.
           2.2.2.4. The Air National Guard Readiness Center (ANGRC) and the states are responsible
           for storage and protection of firearms on ANG bases.
   2.3. USAFR security police squadrons (SPS) (active duty bases, civilian airports, or Air Force
   Reserve (AFRES) bases).
       2.3.1. USAFR SPSs located on active duty bases:
           2.3.1.1. The host-base chief of security police is responsible for providing a single, integrated
           physical security operation.
           2.3.1.2. The host security police unit is responsible for furnishing training for personnel as
           requested by the AFRES SPS, as well as scheduling and conducting the training to coincide
           with the availability of USAFR SPS personnel.
           2.3.1.3. When the host security police unit has only a law enforcement function, the host pro-
           vides the training applicable to all security police units. This includes subjects listed in
           AFIND 3 that are common to both security and law enforcement functions. Training for secu-
           rity related subjects is conducted by a qualified USAFR SPS security police NCO.
           2.3.1.4. Where possible, USAFR SPS personnel integrate with the host security police for
           training purposes during UTAs.
       2.3.2. USAFR SPSs located at civilian airports or on AFRES bases:
           2.3.2.1. When a USAFR SPS is not located on a base with an active duty security police unit,
           the USAFR SPS commander must appoint a qualified security police NCO to administer the
           training program.
           2.3.2.2. AMC-gained USAFR SPSs are tenant units when located on AFRES bases.
           2.3.2.3. Department of Defense (DOD) civilian security police forces staff AFRES bases with
           civilian (normally GS-12) chiefs of security police.
           2.3.2.4. The host USAFR unit is responsible for storage and protection of tenant SPS fire-
           arms.

3. Command of ARCs. Command jurisdiction of all non-mobilized ANG units is vested in the respec-
tive state governor through the adjutant general or other appropriate state authority, the commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands. Command jurisdiction for USAFR units is vested in the Com-
mander, AFRES, who in turn is responsible to the Chief of Staff, United States Air Force.
   3.1. ANG and USAFR SPS commander responsibilities. Commanders exercise, command, and man-
   age all activities. The commander is not chief of security police and should not be functioning as such
   while in non-mobilized status, except at ANG bases according to ANGR 125-37. The commander
   functions as follows:
       3.1.1. When mobilized, commanders administer to the general welfare and morale of assigned
       SPS personnel and enforces discipline under the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
4                                                                    AMCPAM31-2 1 September 1994

       3.1.2. Commanders implements a training program that will ensure the SPS maintains a high
       state-of-readiness capable of fulfilling the requirements of the unit type code (UTC) QFEBC or
       QFEB9 mission capability statement (as applicable).
       3.1.3. Commanders develop a comprehensive safety program designed to protect SPS personnel
       from injury or death and resources from damage.
       3.1.4. Commanders perform other duties as directed by higher authority.
    3.2. General Information:
       3.2.1. Each ANG and USAFR security police unit is authorized a security police technician.
       They are normally GS-9 during the week and a member of the unit during UTAs.
       3.2.2. At airports where ANG units are located, the term "chief of security police" or "security
       officer" means the senior technician security officer, supervisor, or specialist authorized on a
       full-time basis, except during UTAs and annual training.
       3.2.3. The ANG security police technician is responsible to the detachment commander for all Air
       Force and ANG 31-series directives or functions and all other day-to-day security police compli-
       ance requirements.

4. Deployable ANG and USAFR Security Police Flights (SPF). An ANG or USAFR SPF is a 44-per-
son flight, unit type code (UTC) QFEBC. Its mission includes, but is not limited to, staffing posts or
patrols to protect Air Force resources; staffing wartime security posts and patrols to protect weapons sys-
tems against sabotage; and staffing defensive fighting positions, sector response forces, base mobile
reserve forces, and listening and observation posts.

5. Law Enforcement (LE) Units:
    5.1. ANG and USAFR LE units assigned to AMC-gained combat support squadrons or combat sup-
    port elements are also AMC-gained during wartime. LE personnel are listed on the unit manning doc-
    ument (UMD). On mobilization, units will deploy to an active-duty AMC base within the continental
    United States (CONUS) to provide LE support. Active duty advisory units must provide necessary
    assistance to ensure ANG and USAFR LE personnel also effectively perform their mission when
    mobilized. LE equipment should be procured, in accordance with the appropriate table of allowance
    (TA), and available for LE personnel when they deploy.
    5.2. ANG and USAFR units tasked to provide UTC QFEB9, Law Enforcement Squad, will train and
    equip personnel to perform the mission as outlined in the QFEB9 mission capability statement (MIS-
    CAP). On mobilization, these personnel will provide additional CONUS LE support, CONUS back-
    fill for forward deployed active duty personnel, or may be deployed to forward locations.

6. Combat Arms Training and Maintenance (CATM). ANG CATM personnel are AMC-gained dur-
ing wartime. They will deploy to active duty bases if needed. USAFR CATM personnel are
AFRES-gained and cannot be mobilized by AMC. Active duty advisory units must understand their role
in providing assistance to CATM and realize the distinction between AMC- and AFRES-gained CATM.

7. Annual Training (AT) Deployments. ANG and USAFR SPSs perform a 2-week, active duty tour
each year. ASPSs incorporate into their host unit’s operations. Normally, a 4-year rotational cycle for ATs
should include 1 year at home station (or a nearby installation), 1 year deployed away from home station
AMCPAM31-2 1 September 1994                                                                                 5

to an active duty unit, 1 year for operational readiness inspections, and 1 year to a ground combat skills
evaluation program, such as PHOENIX ACE or SILVER FLAG ALPHA.

8. Advisory Unit Responsibilities:
   8.1. The advisory unit is the active duty security police unit designated by HQ AMC/SP to advise and
   assist in training an ANG or USAFR security police unit. ANG and USAFR units are assigned to
   active duty advisors based primarily on geographic location with some consideration given to the mis-
   sion of the ANG or USAFR wing. To ensure ANG and USAFR units are in the highest possible
   state-of-readiness, active duty advisory units are responsible for the following:
       8.1.1. Ensuring AMC-gained ANG and USAFR units are well trained, equipped, and in a state of
       readiness to accomplish their wartime mission when mobilized.
       8.1.2. Ensuring ANG and USAFR units are capable of rapid mobilization and integration with
       active forces.
   8.2. To fulfill responsibilities above, advisory units must develop comprehensive advisory programs.
   Program manager (ARC advisor) must be senior noncommissioned officer (NCO) (E-7 or above) or
   officer, selected by squadron commander based on individual overall qualifications. The active duty
   advisor should visit each ANG and USAFR unit annually, but they must visit each unit at least once
   every 24 months.
   8.3. Only the best qualified personnel should accompany the advisor on the unit visit. Active duty
   advisory units must budget TDY funds for advisory visits.

9. Active Duty Advisor Responsibilities:
   9.1. Individuals assigned as advisors must remember that regardless of their rank, position, or title
   they have no command authority over ANG and USAFR units. Therefore, it is essential that tact,
   diplomacy, and professional competence be used to establish rapport when providing advice and
   assistance. These traits will favorably influence the advisor’s effectiveness, and, ultimately, the qual-
   ity of security police activities and training. Advisors must "sell" their expertise and the value of their
   advice. Each time change occurs, send the name of the ARC advisor to HQ AMC/SPX.
       9.1.1. Advisory visits are just that! They should provide assistance for training and other special
       problems involving command, staff, and support functions. Advisory visits are not inspections;
       rather, they provide on-the-spot assistance.
       9.1.2. Security police advisory visits to ANG and USAFR security police units should be sched-
       uled to overlap UTAs when specifically requested by an ANG and USAFR unit.
   9.2. Advisor Guidance:
       9.2.1. Read and be familiar with the contents of all Air Force and AMC publications pertaining to
       ANG and USAFR units.
       9.2.2. Use the ANG publications’ index to identify Air Force and AMC directives that apply to
       ANG units on a day-to-day basis.
       9.2.3. All Air Force publications apply to USAFR units. The AFRES publications’ index will
       identify AMC directives that apply to USAFR units on a day-to-day basis.
6                                                                     AMCPAM31-2 1 September 1994

       9.2.4. ANG and USAFR units must maintain all Air Force and applicable AMC 31-series publi-
       cations that are common to both security and law enforcement functions for training and mobiliza-
       tion.
       9.2.5. When security police advisory personnel arrive at an ANG or USAFR unit, the senior per-
       son should brief the senior ANG or USAFR unit commander on the purpose of the visit and brief
       again on the results of the visit prior to departure.
       9.2.6. Review host-tenant agreement (AFI 25-201) to determine if they are adequate and com-
       plied with. An agreement must identify the support required by the tenant unit.
       9.2.7. Review host-base operations plan (OPlan) to determine if it outlines ANG and USAFR
       security requirements for protection of AMC-gained ANG or USAFR aircraft.
       9.2.8. Review the unit training program to determine if it is properly established. A formal secu-
       rity police training program should be established according to AFI 36-2225 and applicable sup-
       plements. Training schedules that list training objectives and subjects each flight member requires
       and when subjects will be taught should be published. Training requirements for SPFs and LE
       personnel are identified in AFI 36-2225, AFRES Supplement 1, for USAFR personnel, and AFI
       36-2225 as modified by the National Guard Bureau (NGB) for ANG personnel.
       9.2.9. Review plans and checklists used by the host SPS for threat conditions (THREATCON) to
       assure adequate protection for AMC-gained aircraft.
       9.2.10. Review procedures for control and use of firearms and ammunition, including safety pre-
       cautions, and use of force, maintenance, storage, issue, and turn-in procedures.
       9.2.11. Review the unit organizational structure. ANG and USAFR SPSs should be organized
       and functioning according to ANGR 125-1 or AFRESR 23-11.
       9.2.12. Review the unit security education and motivation (SEM) program. AMC tenant units on
       non-AMC bases should comply with the host-base SEM program.
       9.2.13. Except for machine gunners, one M-16 rifle must be available for each 3P0XX person
       authorized for the SPS. Weapons should be stored in the unit security police armory or consoli-
       dated storage facility and be available for issue. SPSs are also authorized M-60 machine guns,
       M-249 squad assault weapons (SAW) , M-203 grenade launchers, and M9 pistols to support UTC
       QFEBC. M-9 pistols and 12-gauge shotguns are also authorized to support UTC QFEB9 and LE
       support missions.
       9.2.14. Each unit’s aircraft should be parked in a restricted area or flightline security zone.
       9.2.15. Restricted area badges should be prepared "in advance" to expedite issue and use upon
       mobilization. During off duty periods, restricted area badges should be maintained according to
       local policy.
       9.2.16. Units should possess mobility equipment according to AFI 10-403 and the applicable
       logistics detail (LOGDET). Loading and packaging equipment is contained in the LOGDET.

10. Self-Inspections. ANG and USAFR security police personnel are encouraged to use applicable por-
tions of the AMC security police unit examination booklet to ensure readiness to perform their mission.
AMCPAM31-2 1 September 1994                                                                              7

11. Inspections. See AFIs 90-201, 90-202, 90-203 and 90-301 with AMC supplements for inspection
and evaluation criteria for ANG and USAFR units.

12. Advisory Visit Reports. When an advisory visit is conducted independent of an AMC or numbered
Air Force (NAF) visit, provide one copy of the advisory visit report to the ANG or USAFR unit, 4th Air
Force (NAF) or 22 AF (as appropriate), NAF/DOXP, ANGRC/SEP or HQ AFRES/SP (as appropriate)
and HQ AMC/SP. When an advisory visit is conducted in conjunction with an AMC or NAF advisory
team visit, send a supplemental advisory report to those same agencies. Reports must be sent to the
appropriate unit not later than 10 working days after the visit. A sample trip report is included as an
attachment to this pamphlet. NOTE: During an ANG SPF operational readiness inspection (ORI), the
flight commander is responsible for all required security actions. The security police technician is desig-
nated chief of security police at civilian airports where ANG units are located. That technician is respon-
sible for all required LE actions and all other day-to-day security and LE compliance items.



                                          BRIAN Y. SHIROYAMA, Colonel, USAF
                                          Director, Security Police
8                                                                      AMCPAM31-2 1 September 1994

                                                Attachment 1

        QFEBC, SECURITY POLICE FLIGHT MISSION CAPABILITIES STATEMENT
                                           UTC CLASSIFICATION (U)
                                   SPS Security Police Flight—UTC QFEBC



A1.1. Mission Capabilities . This UTC is designed to perform resource protection, system security and
base defense missions as directed by the supported security police commander. Missions include, but are
not limited to manning security posts or patrols to protect AF resources; manning wartime security posts
and patrols to protect weapons systems against sabotage; and manning listening or observation posts,
defensive fighting positions, sector response forces or base mobile reserve forces. The flight is organized
and trained so that the sub-unit integrity of the 4-person fire teams and 13-person squads are maintained.
If officer manning prohibits the assignment of an officer to the flight, it may be filled by a security police
senior NCO, 3P090. For deployment to areas designated by the supported commander requiring it to be
self-sustaining, base support will be required after 5 calendar days. 3P0X2 may substitute for 3P0X1
positions. Manpower detail for AFRES/NAG units: 1—31P3 officer (grade 0-4), 33—3P051 (or 3P052
substitutions), 9—3P071 (or 3P072 substitutions) and 1—3P090.

A1.2. Manpower Requirements:


AFSC Description           AFSC     FAC           Quantity
SP Officer                 031P4    4390          1
SP Apprentice              3P031    4390          30
SP Journeyman              3P051    4390          9
SP Craftsman               3P071    4390          4
To t a l M a n p o w e r                          44
Required
AMCPAM31-2 1 September 1994                                                                            9

                                             Attachment 2

    QFEB9, LAW ENFORCEMENT SQUADRON MISSION CAPABILITIES’ STATEMENT
                                     UTC CLASSIFICATION (U)
                                Law Enforcement Squad—UTC QFEB9



A2.1. Mission Capabilities . Deploys to locations requiring law enforcement support and services as
part of base operating support. Duties include directing vehicle and pedestrian traffic, apprehending and
searching suspects, securing crime scenes, investigating crimes, incidents and accidents, pass and regis-
tration, and resource protection. Additionally, these personnel may assist deployed air base defense
(ABD) security forces by performing as flightline entry controllers and as a patrol response to possible
hostile actions involving priority resources. This UTC can be filled by active duty, ANG, or USAFR
forces. AFSC 3P072 master sergeant may substitute for AFSC 3P090.

A2.2. Manpower Requirements:


AFSC Description              AFSC FAC           Quantity
Security Police Superinten-   3P090 4340         1
dent
Law Enforcement Supervi-      3P072 4340         2
sor
Law Enforcement Special-      3P052 4340         10
ist
To t a l     Manpower                            13
Required
10                                                         AMCPAM31-2 1 September 1994

                                            Attachment 3

                     AMC AIR RESERVE COMPONENT (ARC) ADVISORS

A3.1. 89 SPS, Andrews AFB, Maryland:
   • 171 SPS, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
   • 459 SPS, Andrews AFB, Maryland

A3.2.   437 SPS, Charleston AFB, South Carolina:
   •     117 SPF, Birmingham, Alabama
   •     134 SPF, Knoxville, Tennessee
   •     172 SPF, Jackson, Mississippi
   •     186 SPF, Meridian, Mississippi
   •     315 SPS, Charleston AFB, South Carolina

A3.3.   436 SPS, Dover AFB, Delaware:
   •     121 SPS, Rickenbacker ANGB, Ohio
   •     512 SPS, Dover AFB, Delaware
   •     927 SPS, Selfridge ANGB, Michigan
   •     907 SPS, Wright Patterson AFB, Ohio

A3.4. 319 SPS, Grand Forks AFB, North Dakota
     A3.4.1. 128 SPF, Mitchell Field, Wisconsin

A3.5. 92 SPS, Fairchild AFB, Washington:
   • 141 SPF, Fairchild AFB, Washington

A3.6. 62 SPS, McChord AFB, Washington:
   • 151 SPF, Salt Lake City, Utah
   • 446 SPS, McChord AFB, Washington

A3.7.   22 SPS, McConnell AFB, Kansas
   •     155 SPF, Lincoln, Nebraska
   •     190 SPF, Topeka, Kansas
   •     433 SPS, Kelly AFB, Texas
   •     507 SPS, Tinker AFB, Oklahoma

A3.8. 438 SPS, McGuire AFB, New Jersey
   • 101 SPF, Bangor ANGB, Maine
   • 105 SPF, Stewart ANGB, New York
AMCPAM31-2 1 September 1994                    11

   •    107 SPF, Niagra Falls, New York
   •    108 SPS, McGuire AFB, New Jersey
   •    157 SPF, Pease ANGB, New Hampshire
   •    514 SPS, McGuire AFB, New Jersey
   •    639 SPS, Westover AFB, Massachusetts

A3.9.   375 SPS, Scott AFB, Illinois
   •     126 SPF, O'Hare IAP, ARS, Illinois
   •     164 SPF, Memphis, Tennessee
   •     434 SPS, Grissom AFB, Indiana

A3.10. 60 SPS, Travis AFB, California
   • 161 SPF, Phoenix, Arizona
   •    163 SPF, March AFB, California
   •    349 SPS, Travis AFB, California
   •    445 SPS, March AFB, California
   •    452 SPS, March AFB, California
12                                                                 AMCPAM31-2 1 September 1994

                                             Attachment 4

                                       SAMPLE TRIP REPORT
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SAMPLE FORMAT FOR STAFF ADVISORY VISIT REPORT


MEMORANDUM FOR XXX AW/CC
FROM: Unit/SP
SUBJ: Staff Advisory Visit to the XXX Security Police Squadron
1. Purpose. To provide staff advisory support to the SPS, review the unit’s capability to accomplish its
wartime mission, review security police management, and provide assistance concerning training and res-
olution of problems involved in command, staff, and support functions.
2. Personnel Conducting Visit:
Capt John Smith, XX/SPXX
Capt James Patrick, XX/SPOS
TSgt Bruce Smith, XX/SPOA
3. Personnel Contacted During Visit:
Col John Lincoln, AW/CC
Lt Col Robert Conners, CSG/CC
Lt Col James Miller, CSG/SP
Capt Bruce Wilson, SPF/CC
CMSgt William Dorn, SPF/ART
MSgt Larry Kraft, CSG/SPOS
4. General Comments. Outstanding appearance, high attendance rates, and enthusiastic attitude among
flight members are symptoms of leadership providing effective motivation and guidance. Administra-
tively, the SPS either has all necessary publications or has them on order. Group and base plans and the
host-tenant support agreement accurately reflect required support. XXX SPS has developed and main-
tains excellent rapport with the host SPS. The few problem areas noted will be easy to correct.
5. Training:
OBSERVATION: Personnel had not received quality control to qualify them in their duty positions.
RECOMMENDATION: Training NCO should make arrangements with host SPS to conduct personnel
evaluations.
6. Armory: (ANG only)
OBSERVATION: Joint inventory was not being conducted between XXX SPS armorers and host SPS
armorers when custody returns to the host.
AMCPAM31-2 1 September 1994                                                                            13

RECOMMENDATION: Host armorers and XXX SPS armorers should conduct joint inventories at start
and end of each UTA. During day-to-day operations, the host is responsible for securing XXX SPS weap-
ons.
OBSERVATION: XXX SPS weapons storage area in host SPS armory did not have a posted inventory
form.
RECOMMENDATION: XXX SPS may use AF Form 1473, Gun and Equipment Room Inventory,
prescribed in AFI 31-209 or modify it to meet their needs. The form should list the firearms, munitions,
and equipment maintained in their storage area and who was the last individual inside the area. This form
is important so in case of an incident the host security police knows exactly what is being stored.
7. Supply:
OBSERVATION: Lack of storage and inefficient use of available space were degrading unit readiness.
Complete inventory was not available. While computer products showing equipment received by the SPS
were available, the SPS did not know exact amounts or specific locations of that equipment. Personnel
have been issued some items from their mobility A bag because storage space was not available. This is
unacceptable storage practice and could lead to serious loss or unauthorized use of SPS equipment.
RECOMMENDATION: Again, immediate action must be taken to overcome this critical and potentially
expensive problem. All gear, with exception of that needed for UTAs (web belt, field suspenders (LBE),
ammo pouches, canteens), must be recovered from squadron personnel. Technician should explore possi-
bility of storing mobility bags and equipment in the supply squadron warehouse. This would clear a great
deal of storage space and result in a much more organized supply system within the SPS.
8. Information Security: The information security section, headed by TSgt Williams, was managed effec-
tively. Minutes of semiannual security manager meetings were written in-depth and could easily be used
as training material for assigned personnel. All annual information security program reviews were com-
pleted for 199X.
9. An answer to this report is not required. Should you require any additional information or assistance,
please contact us. Point of contact at XXX/SP is Capt Smith, DSN 123-4567.
NAME, Rank, USAF
Title
Attachments:
1.
2.
**cc:XXX SPS/CC
ANGRC/SEP (if appropriate)
XXX AW/CC
HQ AFRES/SP (if appropriate)
NAF/DOXR (if appropriate)
HQ AMC/SPX
14                                                                 AMCPAM31-2 1 September 1994

**NOTE: Send copies to the appropriate addressee; i.e. if an ANG unit receives advisory visit, a copy
does not go to HQ AFRES/SP.
