BY ORDER OF THE CHIEF,                               AIR NATIONAL GUARD INSTRUCTION 16-101
NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU                                                              1 DECEMBER 2006
                                                                       Certified Current 19 August 2013
                                                                                    Operations Support

                                                                      INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         This publication is available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: NGB/A3OC                                        Certified by: NGB/CS (Lt Col Robert P. Lemieux)
                                                                                            Pages: 7

This instruction prescribes guidance and procedures for Air National Guard (ANG) units deploying Out-
side the Continental United States (OCONUS) or interacting with foreign forces within the United States.
It implements DODI 1215.19 Uniform Reserve, Training and Retirement Category Administration,
AFPD 10-3 Air Reserve Component Forces and AFPD 16-1 International Affairs. This instruction applies
to ANG units, the National Guard Bureau (NGB), and Air National Guard advisors and integrated staff.


1. General Information. ANG forces routinely interact with foreign forces, both within the Continental
United States (CONUS) and while deployed OCONUS. They also frequently participate in training activ-
ities OCONUS. This instruction clarifies relevant policies and standardizes coordination procedures relat-
ing to ANG unit participation in these activities.

2. Activation Requirements for International Missions and Deployments.
   2.1. Air National Guard members will be issued orders placing them in a Title 10 (10 USC) status
   prior to performing official duty on land outside the United States and territories. Title 10 status
   ensures ANG members are protected by applicable Status of Forces agreements between the US and
   the host nation.
   2.2. States have no authority to activate National Guard units into federal service. Therefore, in order
   to issue Title 10 orders for international travel, a unit must have either an approved deployment order
   (for example, from the gaining Major Command (MAJCOM)) or written pre-authorization from
   ANGRC.
   2.3. ANG aircrew frequently conducts training missions that take off and land inside the United
   States (U.S.) and territories, but depart U.S. airspace. Common examples include fighter or tanker
   operations in Warning Areas which typically lie beyond the 12 mile boundary of international air-
   space. Such missions do not require ANG aircrew be placed on Title 10 orders if they remain outside
   foreign airspace.
2                                                                      ANGI16-101 1 DECEMBER 2006


    2.4. Sorties that take off and land inside the United States and its territories generally require Title 10
    orders if they do enter foreign airspace. If the only foreign airspace to be entered is Canadian airspace,
    and the type of mission is not a federal mission that requires Title 10 status, then ANG aircrew may be
    permitted to remain in Title 32 status (32 USC).
    2.5. There is no requirement for ANG units to be on Title 10 orders simply to deploy between
    CONUS and the non-CONUS states and territories. Units deploying to Alaska, Hawaii or Guam shall
    ensure the trip is coordinated with the ANG Advisor to Pacific Air Forces (PACAF).

3. Control of ANG Forces deployed outside the United States and territories.
    3.1. Administrative Control (ADCON). ANG members, when activated under Title 10, are assigned
    to the ANG Readiness Center commander for ADCON, regardless whether the activation is for con-
    tingency or for training. When ANG forces are activated and deployed outside the United States, they
    are concurrently attached for specified ADCON to the Commander of Air Force Forces (COMAF-
    FOR) for the destination theater. The theater COMAFFOR will normally delegate specified ADCON
    over deployed ANG members to the geographically closest Wing Commander. Specified ADCON
    responsibilities include force protection, discipline and other administrative responsibilities (AFDD-2
    includes a list of specified ADCON responsibilities).
    3.2. Operational Control (OPCON). OPCON is transferred between Combatant Commanders (e.g.
    from Commander, Joint Forces Command to Commander, Central Command) in accordance with
    Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) orders, typically in a Deployment Order (DEPORD). ANG forces
    activated for contingency operations typically fall under the OPCON of the Combatant Commander in
    the destination theater (e.g. European Command, Pacific Command).
    3.3. Training Deployments. Issues associated with training deployments generally fall in the category
    of ADCON responsibilities. If OPCON issues were to arise (e.g. the mission changes from training to
    operational during the deployment), OPCON would be exercised by the unit’s gaining MAJCOM (e.g.
    Air Combat Command, Pacific Air Forces) unless specified otherwise in the deployment order. The
    National Guard Bureau, in the exercise of its ADCON responsibility, retains the approval authorities
    for ANG units as described in Air Force and Air National Guard instructions. Although approval
    authority may reside at NGB, deployed ANG unit commanders should coordinate issues affecting the
    deployment with affected Air Force commanders in theater, such as a host wing commander.
    3.4. Contingency Deployments. ANG unit commanders should coordinate operational issues through
    their deployed chain of command. ADCON issues should be coordinated with both the deployed
    chain of command and the ANG Readiness Center.

4. Coordination of international military activities within the United States and territories.
    4.1. Units will contact NGB Joint Staff International Affairs (NGB/J5IA, www.ngb.army.mil/ia) at
    least 60 days prior to foreign military personnel visiting their base. NGB/J5IA will coordinate the visit
    with relevant offices and headquarters.
       4.1.1. If foreign military officers or officials will participate in familiarization orientation flights,
       then NGB/J5IA will coordinate with the Air Operations Support Branch (NGB/A3OS) and other
       relevant offices to ensure compliance with coordination and foreign disclosure requirements in
       AFI 11-401/ANG SUP1, Aviation Management.
ANGI16-101 1 DECEMBER 2006                                                                                   3


   4.2. When transporting foreign nationals on ANG transport aircraft, ANG units will comply with
   guidance in ANGI 10-201, Air Transportation.
   4.3. Any training with foreign military personnel requires Deputy Undersecretary of the Air Force for
   International Affairs (SAF/IA) approval to ensure compliance with foreign disclosure and engage-
   ment policies. Therefore, ANG units will obtain approval of SAF/IA and Director, ANG Air Opera-
   tions (NGB/A3) prior to conducting training with foreign military forces unless in the context of an
   approved exercise (e.g. Red Flag) or training program (e.g. 162 FW International F-16 Training).
   Units are responsible for ensuring that training events involving foreign air forces comply with appli-
   cable foreign disclosure guidance from SAF/IA.

5. Coordination of non-contingency ANG deployments outside the United States and territories.
   5.1. ANG Functional Area Managers (FAMs) schedule and coordinate ANG international deploy-
   ments for training to include deployments such as State Partnership for Peace (SPP) and Mobile Train-
   ing Teams (MTT). Therefore, units will coordinate all proposed international deployments with the
   relevant FAMs at the National Guard Bureau. The FAM is responsible for coordinating the proposed
   deployment with affected active duty MAJCOM(s), ANG advisors, and Headquarters Air Force. The
   FAM will also coordinate the publication of written authorization to place the deploying ANG mem-
   bers on Title 10, such as a MAJCOM DEPORD or letter from ANG Readiness Center.
   5.2. If foreign military officers or officials will participate in familiarization orientation flights while
   the ANG unit is overseas, then units must comply with coordination and foreign disclosure require-
   ments in AFI 11-401/ANGSUP 1. The unit will submit a request to NGB/J5IA at least 60 days prior
   to deploying. NGB/J5IA will coordinate with NGB/A3OS and other relevant offices to ensure compli-
   ance with coordination and foreign disclosure requirements in AFI 11-401/ANG SUP 1.
   5.3. All OCONUS deployments must comply with the theater and country-specific instructions and
   coordination requirements in the Foreign Clearance Guide https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil/ and sup-
   port the US Air Force Security Cooperation Strategy (SIPRNET address: http://afsck.af.penta-
   gon.smil.mil).

6. International Mobility Missions. All international mobility missions require an approved ANG mis-
sion number from ANG Deployments Execution Branch (NGB/A3XE). The passengers and cargo carried
aboard these missions must meet all applicable eligibility requirements IAW ANGI 10-201. Airlift will be
approved only if it’s the most cost effective mode of transportation available. NGB/A3XE will determine
mission funding requirements on a case by case basis.

7. Resourcing. ANG units have no authority to unilaterally negotiate agreements, verbal or written, with
foreign governments. Coordination of international agreements must follow the policies described in AFI
51-701, Negotiating, Concluding, Reporting, And Maintaining International Agreements.



                                                CRAIG R. MCKINLEY, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                Director, Air National Guard
4                                                                  ANGI16-101 1 DECEMBER 2006


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODI 1215.19, Uniform Reserve, Training and Retirement Category Administration
http://www.js.pentagon.mil/whs/directives/corres/xml/i121519x.xml
AFDD-2, Operations and Organization
http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/jel/service_pubs/afdd2.pdf
AFPD 10-3, Air Reserve Component Forces
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/10/afpd10-3/afpd10-3.pdf
AFPD 16-1, International Affairs
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/16/afpd16-1/afpd16-1.pdf
AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/16/afi16-201/afi16-201.pdf
AFI 11-401/ANGSUP1, Aviation Management
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/ang/11/afi11-401_angsup1/afi11-401_angsup1.pdf
AFI 51-701, Negotiating, Concluding, Reporting, and Maintaining International Agreements
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/51/afi51-701/afi51-701.pdf
ANGI 10-201, Air Transportation
https://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/ang/10/angi10-201/angi10-201.pdf
SAF/IA Policy Letter dated 1 Oct 2003, SUBJECT: Stateside Foreign Flying Unit Deployments and
Flight Exercises Outside the Scope of Invitations to USAF Formal Exercises (IAPX03-032)


EXCERPTS


DODI 1215.19, Uniform Reserve, Training and Retirement Category Administration
http://www.js.pentagon.mil/whs/directives/corres/xml/i121519x.xml


6.4.2. FTNGD [Full Time National Guard Duty] shall not be performed on land outside the United States,
its territories or possessions, because a member of the RCs must be in a status provided for in reference
(e) [i.e. Title 10, United States Code, “Armed Forces”].


AFPD 10-3, Air Reserve Component Forces
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/10/afpd10-3/afpd10-3.pdf


4.3. Per AFDD 2, when ARC unit forces are mobilized, Operational Control (OPCON) of those forces
transfers in accordance with SecDef orders. The Commander of Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR) receives
ANGI16-101 1 DECEMBER 2006                                                                                   5


specified ADCON over all attached forces. Short of full mobilization, ADCON (other than specified
ADCON) will remain with AFRC or ANG, as appropriate, unless a specific agreement is made to inte-
grate the ARC and regular components.


AFDD 2, Operations and Organization
http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/jel/service_pubs/afdd2.pdf


(P. 59) Unless otherwise specified by the SecDef, and with the exception of the US Northern Command
(USNORTHCOM) AOR, a geographic combatant commander has TACON for exercise purposes when-
ever forces not assigned to that combatant commander undertake exercises in that combatant com-
mander's AOR. TACON begins when the forces enter the AOR and is terminated upon completion of the
exercise, after departing the AOR. In this context, TACON provides directive authority over exercising
forces for purposes relating to that exercise only; it does not authorize operational employment of those
forces. This blanket specification of TACON for exercise purposes does not apply to USTRANSCOM
assets within any AOR or to forces deployed for exercises in USNORTHCOM AOR. OPCON and
TACON for USTRANSCOM forces or forces exercising in USNORTHCOM AOR remain as established
by the SecDef.


AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/16/afi16-201/afi16-201.pdf


5.3.1.3. DoD proponents responsible for managing peacetime engagement programs, such as the EUCOM
military contact program and Latin American Cooperation Fund, will submit visit requests to SAF/IAPD.
Requests will include proposed dates of visit, facility to be visited, points of contact, purpose of visit, and
the visitor’s name, rank, position, organization of assignment, date of birth, citizenship, place of birth, and
identification or passport number.


5.3.2.2. No visit request is required for flying missions performed by Air Force units under the sponsor-
ship of a Combatant Commander, Unified Command or other Service, unless Air Force organizations will
disclose CMI or CUMI. Air Force units must coordinate such missions with their servicing FDO to obtain
disclosure guidance.


5.8. Air Force Personnel Visiting Foreign Government or International Organization Establishments
Overseas. Air Force personnel will obtain approval to visit foreign establishments overseas in accordance
with DoD 4500.54-G, the DoD Foreign Clearance Guide. Prior to commencing foreign travel, Air Force
personnel will obtain disclosure approval from their servicing FDO for CMI and CUMI that will be dis-
cussed during their visit. Travelers will record the designated FDO, by office symbol that approved dis-
closure of the information to be discussed during their visits in the personnel clearance request.
6                                                                    ANGI16-101 1 DECEMBER 2006


Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ADCON—Administrative Control
ANG—Air National Guard
COMAFFOR—Commander of Air Force Forces
CONUS—Continental United States
DEPORD—Deployment Order
EUCOM—European Command
FAM—Functional Area Manager
MAJCOM—Major Command
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NORTHCOM—Northern Command
OCONUS—Outside the Continental United States
OPCON—Operational Control
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
PACOM—Pacific Command
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
TACON—Tactical Control
Title 10—10 US Code
Title 32—32 US Code
U.S.—United States
USAFE—United States Air Forces Europe

Terms
Administrative Control—Direction or exercise of authority over subordinate or other organizations in
respect to administration and support, including organization of Service forces, control of resources and
equipment, personnel management, unit logistics, individual and unit training, readiness, mobilization,
demobilization, discipline, and other matters not included in the operational missions of the subordinate
or other organizations. Also called ADCON. [JP 1-02]
Command—The authority that a commander in the Armed Forces lawfully exercises over subordinates
by virtue of rank or assignment. Command includes the authority and responsibility for effectively using
available resources and for planning the employment of, organizing, directing, coordinating, and
controlling military forces for the accomplishment of assigned missions. It also includes responsibility for
health, welfare, morale, and discipline of assigned personnel. [JP 1-02]
Combatant Commander—A commander of one of the unified or specified combatant commands
established by the President. [JP 1-02]
ANGI16-101 1 DECEMBER 2006                                                                                  7


Gaining Command—The major command, field operating agency, or other organization to which units
or individuals are assigned upon mobilization.
Operational Control—The authority to perform those functions of command over subordinate forces
involving organizing and employing commands and forces, assigning tasks, designating objectives, and
giving authoritative direction necessary to accomplish the mission. Operational control includes
authoritative direction over all aspects of military operations and joint training necessary to accomplish
missions assigned to the command. Operational control should be exercised through the commanders of
subordinate organizations. Normally this authority is exercised through subordinate joint force
commanders and Service and/or functional component commanders. Operational control normally
provides full authority to organize commands and forces and to employ those forces as the commander in
operational control considers necessary to accomplish assigned missions; it does not, in and of itself,
include authoritative direction for logistics or matters of administration, discipline, internal organization,
or unit training.
Specified ADCON—Exercise of authority over subordinate or other organizations with respect to certain
elements of administration or support, including accomplishment of assigned tasks for operational
missions; support of operational and exercise plans; organization, training, equipping, and sustaining
forces for in-theater missions; establishment of force protection requirements; and discipline. Exercised
by Commander holding OPCON over attached forces.
Tactical Control—Command authority over assigned or attached forces or commands, or military
capability or forces made available for tasking, that is limited to the detailed direction and control of
movements or maneuvers within the operational area necessary to accomplish missions or tasks assigned.
Tactical control is inherent in operational control. Tactical control may be delegated to, and exercised at
any level at or below the level of combatant command. When forces are transferred between combatant
commands, the command relationship the gaining commander will exercise (and the losing commander
will relinquish) over these forces must be specified by the Secretary of Defense. Tactical control provides
sufficient authority for controlling and directing the application of force or tactical use of combat support
assets within the assigned mission or task.
