BY ORDER OF THE CHIEF,                              AIR NATIONAL GUARD INSTRUCTION 36-501
NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU                                                            17 DECEMBER 2004
AIR NATIONAL GUARD                                                       Certified Current 7 May 2014
                                                                                              Training

                                                       AIR NATIONAL GUARD CIVIL ENGINEER
                                                       DEPLOYMENT FOR TRAINING PROGRAM




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: ANG/CEXO (Capt S. Cumpsty)                     Certified by: ANGRC/CV (Lt Col S. Wassermann)
Supersedes ANGI 36-501, 8 April 2003                                                     Pages: 15
                                                                                    Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-22, Military Training, and ANGI 36-2001, Management of Train-
ing and Operational Support within the Air National Guard, by requiring commands at all levels to iden-
tify military training and resource requirements including workday management and establish
supplementary training programs for the delivery and completion of civil engineer career field training.
This instruction further implements AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS), AFI
10-209, RED HORSE Program, AFI 10-210, PRIME Base Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) Program,
and, by establishing contingency training requirements and SORTS reporting criteria for civil engineer
organizations.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision includes the Air National Guard (ANG) Civil Engineer (CE) Deployment policy, Workday
management, financial management, Deployments for Training (DFT) After-Actions reporting, Regional
Training Site (RTS) attendance policy, and various administrative adjustments.
2                                                                      ANGI36-501 17 DECEMBER 2004


                                                Chapter 1

                                            INTRODUCTION

1.1. General. Skilled and trained personnel are critical to the Air Force (AF) in providing a strong
national defense capability. This instruction prescribes ANG CE policy, for the scheduling and conduct of
ANG CE deployments program. It establishes responsibilities for the development, management, and
execution of a military deployments program for ANG CE personnel.

1.2. Strategy. Develop, manage, and execute a deployments program that provides realistic and flexible
training which produce a highly skilled, motivated force capable of carrying out all tasks and functions in
accomplishing the AF mission. This program should complement formal training programs and enhance
unit capabilities in the delivery of such training.

1.3. Objective. The ANG CE deployment program provides:
    1.3.1. The best trained individuals, units, and forces possible.
    1.3.2. Increased readiness and military effectiveness through quality program management.
    1.3.3. Job oriented, realistic technical training in the skill and knowledge required to perform effec-
    tively in Air Force Specialties (AFS).
    1.3.4. A balance of training capability and cost.
    1.3.5. Rigorous evaluation, feedback, and improvement to ensure training programs prepare our
    forces to meet the challenges of the future.
ANGI36-501 17 DECEMBER 2004                                                                             3


                                               Chapter 2

                                      DEPLOYMENT POLICY

2.1. General. The deployment program provides CE commanders the opportunity to accomplish annual
training and mission support to maintain the highest state of readiness possible.

2.2. Objective. Air National Guard Civil Engineer, Readiness Division, Operations Branch (ANG/
CEXO) will seek out deployment opportunities that provide unique challenges to meet wartime skills
training. Such deployments include Humanitarian/Civic Action (HCA) projects in Central America and
the Caribbean, as well as overseas (OCONUS) deployments in Asia and Europe, and exchange programs
where possible with Canada, United Kingdom, and Norway. These types of deployments are valuable for
developing unit preparedness, flexibility, confidence, initiative, and integrity and have brought recogni-
tion and praise from United States ambassadors, political leaders of the host nation, and military leaders
from other services. They provide the best possible exposure to challenges approximating real mobiliza-
tion scenarios.
   2.2.1. Aerospace Expeditionary Force (AEF) taskings (including other real-world missions) will
   receive FIRST priority for annual deployments, scheduled Silver Flag Exercises are considered SEC-
   OND priority, and DFT and other training requirements are the THIRD priority. Every effort will be
   made to avoid conflicts between AEF and Silver Flag Exercise.
   2.2.2. Commanders should program to accomplish annual training and mission support to maintain
   the highest readiness possible. Classroom and on-the-job-training (OJT) should be maximized at
   home station during Unit Training Assemblies (UTAs), with supplemental use of DFTs to meet
   requirements that are beyond home station capabilities.
       2.2.2.1. The systematic accomplishment of training during the limited training time available
       necessitates the development and publication of a master training plan. Commanders will develop
       and maintain a master training plan that addresses all phases of Enlisted Specialty Training (EST)
       and contingency training as well as other wing/unit activities.
       2.2.2.2. The master training plan will include EST for each Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC),
       contingency training, Operational Readiness Exercises (ORE) / Operational Readiness Inspec-
       tions (ORI), AEF commitments, Silver Flag Exercises, and other unique training requirements i.e.
       Regional Equipment Operators Training (REOTS), crane operator licensing, and pest manage-
       ment re-certification.
   2.2.3. Air National Guard Civil Engineer, Readiness Division (ANG/CEX) will allocate DFTs to
   units after a review of SORTS, AEF participation, dates of availability, training requirements, prior
   deployment history, RTS deployments, airlift availability, and theater wartime task criteria.
   2.2.4. Units with a SORTS rating (C-2 or lower) in any measured training area will not be considered
   for DFT participation unless the DFT will satisfy that particular training deficiency.
       2.2.4.1. The limited availability of mission essential equipment (MEE) at home station necessi-
       tates the use of RTS for the completion of SORTS reportable mandatory training. SORTS fre-
       quency schedules in accordance with (IAW) AFI 10-209 and AFI 10-210 dictate training
       requirements.
4                                                                   ANGI36-501 17 DECEMBER 2004


       2.2.4.2. Units are encouraged to schedule RTS deployments annually, however, units not attend-
       ing an RTS with all assigned personnel every three years will not be considered for DFT participa-
       tion until such visit is accomplished.
       2.2.4.3. Units desiring training at an RTS will make their own arrangements with the site coordi-
       nator and submit airlift requests on National Guard Bureau (NGB) 214, Unit Training Airlift
       Request, to coincide with the quarterly airlift conferences. This airlift request form can be
       accessed at website “https://dox.ang.af.mil/form214/default.asp”, and must be coordinated
       through the Wing Plans Office (XPL). Additionally, if a unit is within 300 miles of the RTS they
       request to attend, ground transportation will be utilized. Refer to Paragraph 2.5.2.1., for additional
       requirements.
    2.2.5. Deployments will be scheduled on a fiscal year (FY) (October-September) basis. A limited
    number are scheduled during the first quarter (October-December) of each FY to take advantage of
    ANG airlift resources.
    2.2.6. In April, the ANG Civil Engineer Functional Directorate (ANG/CE) will send all ANG CE
    units a Deployment for Training Call Letter. This DFT call letter will include both requests for train-
    ing deployments and requests for hosting teams.
       2.2.6.1. Units must respond to the Deployment for Training Call Letter as directed. Units failing
       to respond by required date may not receive DFT consideration for the affected time/year.
       2.2.6.2. Units will indicate availability to perform a deployment on the annual request for deploy-
       ments questionnaire.
       2.2.6.3. Firefighters and explosive ordinance disposal personnel will be tasked with their respec-
       tive CE unit unless the host base cannot provide the deployment support required for these special-
       ties. ANG Civil Engineer, Readiness Division, Fire Protection Branch (ANG/CEXF) and ANG
       Civil Engineer, Readiness Division, Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) Branch (ANG/CEXD)
       will work to find the best training opportunities available for fire protection and explosive ordi-
       nance disposal personnel in these cases.
       2.2.6.4. Wing, and Support Group commanders must concur with DFT requests to ensure unit is
       capable of participating in the deployments program. ANG/CEXO will not accept a DFT request
       without proper endorsement.
       2.2.6.5. All deployment requests are subject to approval by the respective State Adjutants General
       for Air or Commanding General.
       2.2.6.6. ANG/CE encourages taking other support personnel as conditions dictate or when space
       is available. Units should consider taking medics on deployments where field conditions are
       directed and medical support is limited. Public affairs, Services, and chaplain personnel should be
       considered, particularly when accomplishing a nations building deployment. Include security
       forces personnel as required.
           2.2.6.6.1. ANG/CEXO provides funding for CE personnel and will not cover other functional
           areas.

2.3. Aerospace Expeditionary Force Commitment. AEF is the number one priority of the ANG. All
other activities, including training, DFTs, and inspections, are subordinate to the requirement to satisfy a
ANGI36-501 17 DECEMBER 2004                                                                               5


unit’s tasked AEF commitments. Every effort is made to coordinate a unit’s AEF participation and other
activities to avoid conflict and maximize deployment opportunities.
   2.3.1. AEF scheduling should maximize Unit Type Code (UTC) taskings/integrity. ANG/CE will fill
   the positions through a volunteer basis, at this time.
       2.3.1.1. The method of filling AEF may be adjusted as Ops Tempo dictates.
       2.3.1.2. The unit providing the most personnel per rotation will be assigned a lead role for that
       rotation.
       2.3.1.3. Units/personnel wishing to fill AEF positions outside of their designated rotational cycle
       will coordinate with the tasked unit(s) within the projected rotation for position vacancies and
       assignments. Coordinate all volunteer requests for AEF through your Unit Deployment Manager
       (UDM) and the XPL office. ANG/CEXO reserves final approval for any unit/personnel filling
       positions outside of their AEF rotational cycle.
       2.3.1.4. CE unit commanders are encouraged to use ANG/RTS for Just-In–Time Training prior to
       AEF Deployment and must be coordinated through the RTS POC.

2.4. Silver Flag Exercise. Silver Flag Exercise training is critical in preparing AF civil engineer person-
nel and teams for the more rigorous aspects of conducting operations in a bare base field environment.
   2.4.1. Silver Flag exercise training dates are negotiated annually between ANG, Air Force Reserve,
   and Active Duty Major Commands (MAJCOMs). Once determined, these dates cannot be arbitrarily
   changed. Extreme circumstances, such as an AEF conflict or rescheduled MAJCOM inspections
   necessitating date changes will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Units requiring date changes
   will immediately coordinate with ANG/CEXO for rescheduling.
   2.4.2. Silver Flag exercise training frequencies are determined by Headquarters, Air Force Civil Engi-
   neer Support Agency (HQ AFCESA), through coordination with each MAJCOM functional manager.
   The frequency for ANG CE personnel is 45 months.
       2.4.2.1. Units will indicate Silver Flag exercise training participation requirements on the ANG
       DFT Call Letter.
       2.4.2.2. Units will negotiate out-of-cycle Silver Flag exercise training attendance without assis-
       tance of ANG/CEXO. Units are encouraged to contact other organizations and determine if they
       have any available positions (plus-ups) that can alleviate training shortfall.
       2.4.2.3. The Silver Flag exercise Liaison Office can assist units in locating plus-up positions.
       2.4.2.4. CES PB CEMIRT DEPOT MAINT TM UTC 4F9AC, CES TRAN PROT SYS PERS
       SUPT TM UTC 4F9DT, CES RED HORSE UNITS UTC 4F9RX, CES MANAGEMENT AND
       STAFF AUGMENTATION TEAMS UTC 4F9SX are not included in the Silver Flag Exercise
       Training program.

2.5. Deployments for Training. The DFT program provides valuable training opportunities normally
not available in home station scenarios. These types of deployments are valuable for developing unit pre-
paredness, flexibility, confidence, initiative, and integrity. They provide the best possible exposure to
challenges approximating real mobilization scenarios.
6                                                                  ANGI36-501 17 DECEMBER 2004


    2.5.1. Tasked units will be advised of DFT location by an initial tasking email followed by a formal
    tasking message from ANG/CEXO.
       2.5.1.1. Tasked units will negotiate deployment dates with the host unit. ANG/CEXO will be noti-
       fied in writing once dates are secured.
       2.5.1.2. If a tasked unit needs to change the deployment dates, the unit must coordinate this
       change directly with the host and advise ANG/CEXO. If airlift has already been assigned, ANG/
       CE may not approve the date change.
           2.5.1.2.1. Potential date changes must be identified at least three months prior to the deploy-
           ment.
    2.5.2. ANG Mission Readiness Airlift (MRA) is the preferred method of transportation for units par-
    ticipating in the DFT program. The XPL is responsible for requesting all airlifts in support of deploy-
    ments. Tasked units will coordinate with XPL to ensure deployment dates are consistent with tasking
    message and submitted to ANG/CEXO for validation.
       2.5.2.1. Military airlift will be requested by XPL using NGB 214 via Air National Guard Opera-
       tions Functional Directorate, Deployments (ANG/XOX) team website
       “https://dox.ang.af.mil/form214/default.asp”.
       2.5.2.2. NGB 214 will be submitted to ANG/CEXO for validations not later than (NLT) the first
       week of the first month of the quarter prior to the quarter the airlift is required. This will allow
       ANG/CEXO time to validate the airlift request and include in the “Quarterly Airlift Catalogue”.
       2.5.2.3. Airlift requests not received in time to be included in the Quarterly Airlift Catalogue will
       be validated by ANG/CEXO and forwarded to ANG/XOX for inclusion in the Mission Readiness
       Airlift database.
           2.5.2.3.1. Mission Readiness Airlift normally receives low priority and may not be picked up
           by flying organizations; therefore, units should make every effort to submit NGB 214 as
           required by Paragraph 2.5.2.2.
    2.5.3. Multiple or large deployment taskings necessitate the appointment of a lead unit and in some
    cases a duration staff/liaison. Lead units are responsible for all deployment coordination among the
    deploying units and the host base.
       2.5.3.1. Lead units will coordinate the timing(s) for all pre-deployment visits between deploying
       units and the host base as well as determine the need for a duration staff/liaison.
       2.5.3.2. The duration staff/liaison will normally be assigned to a location where multiple organi-
       zations are scheduled to conduct DFT operations. Duration staff personnel are expected to provide
       liaison between host base and deploying units. This staff will monitor work projects and commu-
       nicate with deploying organizations.
       2.5.3.3. ANG/CEXO will select the lead unit and as required, approve requests for duration staff/
       liaison assignment. Resources (Special Training (ST) workdays and funds) associated with dura-
       tion staffing will come from ANG/CEXO or host MAJCOM.
    2.5.4. Units are expected to accomplish all planning and coordination with the host unit to include
    project work, on base quarters and dining, transportation, specialized equipment, tools, and other
    training opportunities available at deployment location.
ANGI36-501 17 DECEMBER 2004                                                                              7


     2.5.4.1. Pre-deployment visits are authorized for all DFTs except for stand alone fire DFTs. Per-
     sonnel quantity and visit duration will be included in the tasking message. ANG/CEXO will pay
     all costs associated with the pre-deployment visit. ANG/CEXO will determine pre-deployment
     dates for Exchange program DFTs. ANG/CEXO will also send required country clearances. Unit
     members on the pre-deployment must take a pre-deployment checklist.
  2.5.5. Advanced Party (ADVON) personnel are authorized for DFTs except for stand alone fire DFTs.
  The number of personnel and duration of the trip will be provided in the tasking message. ANG/
  CEXO pays costs associated with the ADVON per the tasking message.
     2.5.5.1. Locations where there is a base and the host is capable of providing some assistance, the
     deploying unit is authorized one person for two days, plus travel time (supported location).
     2.5.5.2. Locations where there is no base, or support from the host is limited, the deploying unit is
     authorized two persons for three days, plus travel time (unsupported location).
     2.5.5.3. Additional personnel are authorized at unit expense.
  2.5.6. ANG bases may request to host Prime BEEF or RED HORSE teams.
     2.5.6.1. Bases electing to host engineering teams will first identify proposed training projects to
     Air National Guard Civil Engineer, Programs Division (ANG/CEP) for consideration and
     approval using DD Form 1391, Military Construction Project Data, for Bureau approved projects.
         2.5.6.1.1. Locally approved projects shall be programmed, designed, and funded in accor-
         dance with procedures established for Bureau approved Sustainment, Restoration, and Mod-
         ernization (SRM) projects. DD Form 1391 should be approved before submission of ANG
         DFT Call Letter, see Paragraph 2.5.6.2.
         2.5.6.1.2. It is the responsibility of the host Base CE to ensure the DD Form 1391 is properly
         approved, the project is fully designed, and funding is available, well in advance of the
         inbound team.
     2.5.6.2. Units will request to host engineer teams using the ANG DFT Call Letter. Only units with
     approved projects will be considered. Provide a copy of the approved DD Form 1391 with the
     request.
     2.5.6.3. Host unit will estimate the number of teams needed for project completion to include
     team size, team complement (AFS requirements), and man-hour-work estimates for each respec-
     tive AFSCs and include this information in their request.
     2.5.6.4. Government lodging, meals, and transportation should be available. When commercial
     lodging (off base) is used, the host unit is responsible for funding the difference in cost between on
     base lodging and commercial lodging as well as the per diem meal entitlements associated with
     commercial lodging and commercial transportation.
         2.5.6.4.1. It is expected that when government lodging and meals are available, they will be
         utilized. In situations where the DFT members are removed from these resources during the
         DFT, the DFT Commander (senior member) will contact ANG/CEXO (or ANG/CEXF in case
         of Fire or ANG/CEXD in case of EOD) at the first opportunity (first available work day) to
         determine a proper course of action. In some cases, where the host unit will not fund these
         changes, it may be appropriate to terminate the DFT.
8                                                               ANGI36-501 17 DECEMBER 2004


    2.5.6.5. Host unit will furnish all designs, materials, vehicles, equipment, and special tools/equip-
    ment for training projects.
    2.5.6.6. Non-appropriated fund projects are not authorized under the DFT program.
    2.5.6.7. Once the DFT is approved by ANG/CEXO, the host unit must notify ANG/CEP (Pro-
    grammer) and Air National Guard Civil Engineer, Engineering Division (ANG/CEC) (Project
    Manager) in writing. Notification should include the details of the pending project, anticipated
    start date and date when funding is required. Failure to promptly notify ANG/CEP and ANG/CEC
    could jeopardize funding and force cancellation of the deployment.
ANGI36-501 17 DECEMBER 2004                                                                           9


                                              Chapter 3

                                   RESOURCE MANAGEMENT

3.1. General. ANG resource management is established, operated, and maintained for the purpose of
achieving mission accomplishment within available resources. Units are responsible for productive, pru-
dent, and lawful use of allocated resources. Managers at all levels should participate in all phases of
resource management to ensure program success.

3.2. Workday Control. The ANG workday program is designed to forecast requirements, allocate
resources, and maintain an audit trail of resources expended. Internal controls must be maintained to
ensure all personnel are fully trained in their wartime mission and workdays are expended appropriately
and judiciously.
   3.2.1. Categories of workdays that may be utilized for the DFT program are Annual Training and
   Special Training.
       3.2.1.1. Annual Training (AT). The primary purpose of AT is to provide individual and/or unit
       readiness training. AT may be performed in either United States Code (USC) Title 32 or USC Title
       10 status.
       3.2.1.2. Special Training (ST). Workdays allocated to accomplish training that cannot be achieved
       during AT or UTAs. ST may be performed in either USC Title 32 or USC Title 10 status.
   3.2.2. Units are responsible for providing AT workdays for each member scheduled to participate in
   DFTs. Units should develop a workday control plan to manage workday resources within their squad-
   ron.
       3.2.2.1. Unit workday control plans should be designed to forecast requirements, allocate
       resources, and maintain an audit trail of resources expended. This plan should ensure workdays
       are expended appropriately and judiciously.
   3.2.3. Under certain circumstances, ANG/CEXO may provide ST workdays to deploying units when
   DFTs exceed 15 days. Deployment location and airlift delays are the primary contributors to AT work-
   day shortages. Request for ST workdays must be provided in writing with solid justification state-
   ments included.
       3.2.3.1. ST workdays are allocated to units for a specific purpose and must only be used for that
       purpose. The squadrons Workday Control Officer (WCO) will ensure ST workdays are utilized for
       their intended purpose and will immediately return any unused workdays to ANG/CEXO.

3.3. Financial Management. Financial planning is the basic prerequisite for successful resource man-
agement. Financial plans must reflect total unit requirements and as a minimum include both funded/
un-funded programs and future spending. Units should develop financial plans that prevent the unautho-
rized expenditure of resources and ensure funding floors are achieved and financial ceilings are not
exceeded.
   3.3.1. Resource managers should plan on participating in the ANG CE deployments for training pro-
   gram annually.
10                                                                  ANGI36-501 17 DECEMBER 2004


        3.3.1.1. ANG/CEXO will provide limited funding to each unit selected to participate in the DFT
        program. Funds normally include per diem for government lodging and meals, the conduct of ini-
        tial site surveys, and the deployment of ADVON teams.
        3.3.1.2. Resources may not be provided for personal equipment items, lodging in commercial
        quarters unless specifically directed by ANG/CEXO, lodging in contract quarters, commercial
        vehicle rentals, ground fuel, and specialized tool/ equipment purchases.
        3.3.1.3. Requirements (supplies, materials, and equipment) used in support of nation building
        projects will not be funded by ANG/CEXO. Theater commanders are responsible for providing all
        resources necessary for these training projects.
     3.3.2. Units must formally request DFT funding resources through their respective comptroller office.
     Requests must contain accurate cost estimate data to include the total number of deploying personnel,
     daily government lodging rates, on-base meals rate, associated costs for en-route stops, the conduct of
     a site survey, and the deployment of an ADVON team.
        3.3.2.1. DFT funding requests should be forwarded to ANG/CEXO within 45 calendar days of the
        scheduled deployment date.
     3.3.3. ANG/CEXO will not provide any resources to organizations that secure training deployments
     not managed or issued by ANG/CEXO.
ANGI36-501 17 DECEMBER 2004                                                                              11


                                               Chapter 4

                                         ADMINISTRATION

4.1. Country/Theater Clearance Messages. The most forgotten task by deploying units when preparing
for overseas deployments is the submission of a country/theater clearance request. Country/theater clear-
ance requests are normally required for anyone selected to participate in Department of Defense (DoD)/
military activity overseas. DoD 4500.54-G, Department of Defense Foreign Clearance Guide, explains
specific requirements/responsibilities for preparing individuals/units for overseas deployments.
   4.1.1. Deploying units will forward clearance documentation not-later-than (NLT) 45 days prior to
   visitation/arrival date or as directed by DoD 4500.54-G.
       4.1.1.1. Deploying units will include ANG/CEXO as an informational addressee on all country/
       theater clearance request messages.
   4.1.2. DoD 4500.54-G is available electronically at http://www.fcg.pentagon.mil.

4.2. DFT After Actions Reporting. After actions reporting is crucial for determining program applica-
bility and effectiveness. ANG CE program managers use this reporting process to evaluate DFT program
procedures/practices as well as validate program effectiveness. Any unit participating in the DFT program
will prepare and submit an after action report.
   4.2.1. After actions reports are required for any DFT (ANG directed or unit sponsored) conducted at
   any military installation or property (foreign or domestic). After actions reports are also required from
   units utilizing ANG regional training sites.
       4.2.1.1. After actions reports will reflect information pertinent to all phases of the deployment to
       include pre/post deployment activities and employment operations. As a minimum the report will
       include information explaining work/training related activities performed while deployed, the
       level of support provided by the host, number of personnel deployed, deployment dates, method of
       travel, inclusive costs by deployment activity, and key personnel contacts.
       4.2.1.2. After actions reports will be submitted to ANG/CEXO within 30 days of returning from
       deployed activity. Applicable State Headquarters, Wing and Group commanders will be provided
       courtesy copies of this report.



                                               DANIEL JAMES, III, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                               Director, Air National Guard
12                                                           ANGI36-501 17 DECEMBER 2004


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-209, RED HORSE Program
AFI 10-210, Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) Program
AFI 36-2201, Developing, Managing, and Conducting Training
AFPD 36-22, Military Training
ANGI 65-601, ANG Resource Management Policies and Responsibilities for Commanders
ANGI 36-2001, Management of Training and Operational Support within the Air National Guard
DoD 4500.54-G, Department of Defense Foreign Clearance Guide

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADVON—Advanced Party
AEF—Aerospace Expeditionary Force
AF—Air Force
AFCESA—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFS—Air Force Specialty
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ANG—Air National Guard
ANGI—Air National Guard Instruction
AT—Annual Training
CE—Civil Engineer
DFT—Deployment for Training
DOC—– Designed Operational Capability
DoD—Department of Defense
EOD— Explosive Ordnance Disposal
EST—Enlisted Specialty Training
FY—Fiscal Year
HCA—Humanitarian Civic Action
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—– In Accordance With
JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff
ANGI36-501 17 DECEMBER 2004                                                                       13


MAJCOM—Major Command
MEE—– Mission Essential Equipment
MRA—Mission Readiness Airlift
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NLT—Not Later Than
OCONUS—Overseas
OJT—On-the-Job Training
ORE—Operational Readiness Exercise
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
Prime BEEF—Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force
RED HORSE—Rapid Engineer Deployable Heavy Operational Repair Squadron Engineer
REOTS—Regional Equipment Operators Training School
RTS—Regional Training Site
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training Systems
SRM—Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization
ST—Special Training
TAG—– The Adjutants General
USC—– United States Code
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
UTC—Unit Type Code
WCO—Workday Control Officer
XPL— Wing Plans Office

Terms
Advanced Party (ADVON)—One member from a deploying unit or two members if deploying to a
non-support location that arrive one or two days prior to main body to secure billeting, messing, and
vehicles for the DFT.
Aerospace Expeditionary Force (AEF)—Establishes 20 month cycles of deploying forces in support of
Air Force missions.
After Actions Report—A detailed synopsis of the deployment. Must be sent to ANG/CEXO 30 days
post deployment.
Annual Training (AT)—Duty reserved for individual or unit readiness training. May be performed in
USC Title 32 or USC Title 10 status. Usually consists of periods from one – 15 days.
Budget—A formal estimate of future revenues, obligations to be incurred, and expenditures to be made
during a definite period of time, when determined to be appropriate upon the basis of accrued
14                                                                 ANGI36-501 17 DECEMBER 2004


expenditures and costs to be incurred.
Contingency—An emergency involving military forces caused by natural disasters, terrorists,
subversives, or by required military operations.
Contract Quarters—Quarters that have been contracted on the local economy.
Comptroller—Wing Financial Manager (Wing/FM).
Country/Theater Clearance—Clearance message required by OCONUS locations. Must be submitted
to agencies identified in the DoD foreign clearance guide NLT 45 days prior to deployment.
Deployment—The relocation of forces and material to desired areas of operation. Deployment
encompasses all activities from origin (home station) through destination.
Deployment for Training Call Letter—Annual letter requesting Unit’s desire for deployments for next
fiscal year. This is also the mechanism to host civil engineer teams.
Duration Staff Liaison—If a mission requires several rotations then duration staff and/or liaisons will be
authorized to maintain continuity in the mission.
Financial Plan—A formal, approved formatted database reflecting how expected financing will be
applied to funding requirements.
First Quarter—The three-month period from 1 October through 30 December.
Fiscal Year (FY)—The 12-month period from 1 October through 30 September.
Fourth Quarter—The three-month period from 1 July through 30 September.
Funding—Represents the amount of dollar authority available during the fiscal period.
Government Lodging—On base billeting.
Home Station—Unit’s home base location.
Host Unit—The organization designated by MAJCOM or ANG/CEXO to furnish support for deploying
teams.
Lead Unit—Unit who maintains oversight and continuity to a mission that requires several rotations.
Master Training Plan—A formal document used by all levels of command to identify projected training
activities as well as general/specific military operations. Training plans should cover time periods (36 to
48 months) where maximum activity/frequency schedules are covered (e.g., Silver Flag (45 months),
ORE (12 months), CAT II (six-45 months)) IAW AFI 10-209 and AFI 10-210.
Mission Essential Equipment—Equipment necessary to perform a specific mission that will result in
project completion.
Mission Readiness Airlift—ANG military airlift used for training.
On the Job Training (OJT)—A training system that combines formal classroom instruction with
hands-on training to qualify and upgrade personnel.
Operational Readiness Exercise (ORE)—This is a unit made scenario to practice unit wartime skills
that also prepares for the ORI.
Operational Readiness Inspection (ORI)—ORIs measure the wartime readiness of a unit against its
Designed Operational Capability (DOC) statement.
ANGI36-501 17 DECEMBER 2004                                                                        15


Out-of-Cycle Training—Training conducted outside of established training frequency periods.
OCONUS—Overseas, out of the continental United States.
PER DIEM—Total of maximum lodging, locality meals rate, and local incidentals rate.
Plus-up Training Positions—Training allocations/slots available above normal base-line quotas.
Pre-deployment Visit—Site visit used by deploying unit several weeks prior to their deployment. Used
as a fact finding mission to determine unknowns associated with the deployment. Units must use a
pre-deployment checklist.
Regional Training Site (RTS)—A venue that offers SORTS reportable training opportunities on mission
essential/contingency equipment to enhance wartime task skill that have a direct impact on mission
accomplishment. RTS locations include: 119 CES, Fargo, ND, 145 CES, New London (Badin), NC, 163
CES, March ARB, CA, 188 CES, Fort Smith, AR, and 201 RHS, Fort Indiantown Gap, PA.
Regional Equipment Operators Training School (REOTS)—A formal training course used to
evaluate equipment operator (3E2X1) proficiencies on wartime standards. Conducted at Fort Indiantown
Gap, PA.
Resources—Workdays and funds used to support training activity.
Second Quarter—The three-month period from 1 January through 30 March.
Silver Flag Exercise—A formal training course designed to prepare students to perform critical
contingency tasks in a team environment. Training is focused on bare base bed down and sustainment
operations.
Site Survey—(see pre-deployment visit)
Special Training (ST)—Duty reserved for training that cannot be achieved during AT or UTAs. May be
performed in USC Title 32 or USC Title 10 status and may only be used for a specific purpose and are
therefore limited.
Supported Location—A location where there is a base and the host is capable of providing assistance.
Tasking Message—Official message, sent to the Adjutants General (TAG), Wing Commander, which
identifies where the unit is being requested to perform their DFT.
Third Quarter—The three-month period from 1 April through 30 June.
Unit Training Assembly (UTA)—Drill periods consisting of four hours each. Normally, four UTAs are
scheduled on one weekend each month.
Unit Type Code (UTC)—A Joint Chiefs of Staff developed and assigned code, consisting of five
characters that uniquely identify a “type unit”.
Unsupported Location—A location where there is no base or support from the host is limited.
