BY ORDER OF THE                               AIR NATIONAL GUARD INSTRUCTION 36-6
CHIEF, NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU
                                                                          9 NOVEMBER 2010
                                                                Certified Current 1 May 2013
                                                                                    Personnel

                                                THE AIR NATIONAL GUARD STATUTORY
                                                       TOUR PROGRAM POLICIES AND
                                                                     PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: NGB/HR                                              Certified by: NGB/HR (Col Michael R.
Supersedes: ANGI36-6, 18 February 2003                                                Taheri)
                                                                                    Pages: 54


Air National Guard personnel may volunteer to serve on active duty under the National Guard
Bureau, Title 10, United States Code, Section 12301(d), Armed Forces Statutory Tour of Duty
Program (Statutory Tour Program). While on active duty they serve as members of the Air
National Guard of the United States (ANGUS) in a Reserve of the Air Force status. Tours of
duty are available in the Statutory Tour Program at many locations that include, but are not
limited to, the National Guard Bureau (NGB), the Air National Guard Readiness Center
(ANGRC), the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the office of the Secretary of the Air
Force (SAF), Headquarters, United States Air Force (HQ USAF), the Major Commands
(MAJCOM) and other Air National Guard Operating Locations (ANG/OL). By their service,
members of the ANGUS provide the NGB and its federal mission with a positive influence on
the development and implementation of plans, programs, and policies, and they provide their
expertise in functional and operational areas to staff agencies within the Department of Defense
(DoD). The overall benefit of the Statutory Tour Program is the enhancement of NGB’s mission
by helping (1) Management decisions to reflect current ANG missions and weapons system
requirements while at the same time (2) Providing ANGUS personnel with the opportunity to
apply their exceptional field experience and expertise in a policy making environment. This
instruction applies to all ANG members serving in the Statutory Tour Program under Title 10
U.S.C., Section 12301 (d).

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
 2                                                                                               ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been updated to reflect changes that implement new guidelines and
procedures dealing with the management of individuals assigned to the ANG Statutory Tour
Program. The major changes include the addition of the standardized hiring process, force
management review and the force development process.

Section A—Responsibilities.                                                                                                                3
       1.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................     3

Section B—Assignments                                                                                                                      4
       2.      Assignments. ..........................................................................................................     4

Section C—Promotions                                                                                                                       7
       3.      Promotions. ............................................................................................................    7

Section D—Evaluations                                                                                                                      7
       4.      Officer Performance Reports (OPR) and Enlisted Performance Reports (EPR). ..                                                7

Section E—Statutory Tour Force Management Review                                                                                           7
       5.      The Force Management Review Process (FMRP). ................................................                                7

Section F—Tour Curtailment                                                                                                                11
       6.      Tour Curtailment. ...................................................................................................      11
       7.      Forms Adopted. .....................................................................................................       15
       8.      Forms Prescribed. ..................................................................................................       15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            16

Attachment 2—STATUTORY TOUR STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING                                                                                    19

Attachment 3—STATUTORY TOUR FORCE DEVELOPMENT GUIDELINES                                                                                  20

Attachment 4—DEVELOPMENTAL VECTORS – KEY POSITIONS                                                                                        27

Attachment 5—STAT TOUR OFFICER FUNCTIONAL MANAGEMENT AND FDT
             ALIGNMENT                                                                                                                    28

Attachment 6—STAT TOUR ENLISTED FUNCTIONAL MANAGEMENT AND FDT
             ALIGNMENT                                                                                                                    29

Attachment 7—SAMPLE DEVELOPMENT PLAN (DP)                                                                                                 30

Attachment 8—STATUTORY TOUR FIELD COMMAND MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT 32
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                   3


Attachment 9—FORCE DEVELOPMENT PROCESS (FDP) APPOINTMENT MEMORANDUM
             FORMAT                                                33

Attachment 10—FORCE DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (FDC)/FORCE DEVELOPMENT TEAM
             (FDT) OATH’S                                           34

Attachment 11—FORCE DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL REPORT FORMAT                                     35

Attachment 12—SAMPLE POST FDP NOTIFICATION MEMORANDUM FORMAT
             (DIRECTOR/2-DIGIT)                                                           36

Attachment 13—FORCE DEVELOPMENT STATUTORY TOUR STATEMENT OF
             UNDERSTANDING                                                                37

Attachment 14—STANDARDIZED HIRING PROCESS                                                 38

Attachment 15—PROMOTION STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING                                        40

Attachment 16—FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR) GUIDELINES                                    41

Attachment 17—FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR) APPOINTMENT MEMORANDUM
             FORMAT                                              44

Attachment 18—FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR) OATH’S                                        45

Attachment 19—SAMPLE PRE-REVIEW FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR)
             NOTIFICATION MEMORANDUM FORMAT (INDIVIDUAL)                                  46

Attachment 20—SAMPLE PRE-REVIEW FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR)
             NOTIFICATION MEMORANDUM FORMAT (DIRECTOR/2-DIGIT)                            47

Attachment 21—SAMPLE CAREER PLANNING WORKSHEET (CPW)                                      48

Attachment 22—FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR) MINORITY REPORT FORMAT 50

Attachment 23—FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR) REPORT FORMAT                                 51

Attachment 24—SAMPLE POST-REVIEW FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR)
             NOTIFICATION MEMORANDUM FORMAT (DIRECTOR/2-DIGIT)                            52

Attachment 25—SAMPLE FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR) MEMBER
             ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF DECISION NOTIFICATION FORMAT                              53


Section A—Responsibilities.

1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. Chief of the National Guard Bureau (CNGB) or designated representative is the final
   recommending authority for all tours of duty on the NGB Joint Staff.
   1.2. Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF) or designated representative is the final
   approval authority for: Force Management Review (FMR) and subsequent FMR appeals,
 4                                                                 ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


     Colonel and CMSgt actions, nomination of non-ANG members for statutory tours and for all
     Force Development Council actions.
     1.3. The Functional Director is defined in Attachment 1, Terms. The senior ranking member
     ―in charge‖ of the Functional Directorate and the approval or recommending authority for all
     actions of ANG Statutory Tour Program personnel attached to their respective directorate.
     Notwithstanding, all personnel actions will be routed through the Functional Director to
     Human Resources (NGB/HR).

Section B—Assignments

2. Assignments. The methods for filling existing or projected vacancies in the Statutory Tour
Program are through a force development action, advertisement, priority selection or
management direction. NGB/HR must be contacted whenever action is required to fill a vacancy
within the Statutory Tour Program. NGB/CF or designated representative is the approval
authority for all accessions and reassignments of any Colonel/CMSgt or accession of non ANG
members. Members will be assigned to duty once the appropriate orders are published. While
serving on active duty, members must serve with the consent of the Governor or the Adjutant
General as the Governor’s designee. Notwithstanding, ANGUS personnel remain on the rolls of
their respective State in the event of a return to State control. Member’s initial tour length will
be 2- 4 years unless Mandatory Separation Date (MSD) dictates otherwise. Members are
considered in a probationary status during their first four years on statutory tour. Members will
be reviewed for retention/career status in accordance with the FMR (see paragraph 5). Military
technicians and Active Guard/Reserve (AGR) personnel who are selected for the Statutory Tour
Program have restoration rights to their former jobs. AGRs should familiarize themselves with
ANGI 36-101, The Active Guard/Reserve (AGR) Program. Technicians should familiarize
themselves with The Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994
USERRA, 38 U.S.C. § 4301 – 4335. Notification concerning assignment/reassignment within
the statutory tour program is the responsibility of NGB/HR. IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT NO
COMMITMENT BE MADE TO ANY APPLICANT, STATUTORY TOUR MEMBER, OR
ORGANIZATION UNTIL SUCH TIME AS NGB/HR HAS COMPLETED PROCESSING OF
THE ACTION AND PUBLISHED THE REQUIRED NOTIFICATIONS/ORDERS. NOTE:
Orders will not be published until the selectee/nominee has signed NGB Form 830, Statutory
Tour Statement of Understanding (Attachment 2), and NGB/HR has completed all other required
administrative processing.
     2.1. Force Development. Statutory tour members will be reviewed at the direction of
     NGB/CF, but at a minimum, on an annual basis utilizing the Statutory Tour Force
     Development Process. The Force Development Process is designed to provide leadership
     oversight, guidance and direction for professional development of statutory tour members.
     This process focuses on developing leaders fully capable of operating across a strategic,
     operational, and tactical leadership environment. The statutory tour force development
     process will be conducted in accordance with the Statutory Tour Force Development
     Guidelines (Attachment 3). All statutory tour members will be required to complete a
     development plan (DP) (Attachment 7) via the statutory tour force development web site.
     Mandatory requirements as published on the web site will not be waived. The force
     development process will identify statutory tour candidates to compete for in-residence
     developmental education, congressional fellowships, field command and lateral
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                       5


  opportunities. Members will not be considered for promotion opportunities through this
  process. Members should request consideration for these programs during the force
  development process. All members selected for command tours and subsequent return to
  statutory tour as a career status member will be required to sign the Statutory Tour Field
  Command Memorandum of Agreement (Attachment 8). The Force Development Council
  (FDC) will determine the final list of approved candidates. NGB/CF is the final approval for
  all force development actions pertaining to Colonel and CMSgt actions, invitation for
  application to in-residence PME, consideration for senior developmental education beyond
  SDE and SNCOA, congressional fellowships, and field command candidacy. Reassignment
  of current Stat Tour Airman is based upon their current primary AFSC and/or their expressed
  desires on the DP. Members considered for reassignment involving a PCS through the force
  development process should have already completed at least three years time on station.
  Subsequent reassignment orders involving a PCS would normally be for 3 - 4 years time on
  station at the new duty location. Any action which would result in the award of career status
  or extension beyond 20 years of active service requires NGB/CF approval. Any statutory
  tour member may request reconsideration of their FD action in writing. Reconsideration
  request will only be reviewed in the event a member can provide satisfactory evidence that
  an alleged entry or omission in the record was in error or unjust. All evidence not already
  included in the record must be submitted by the member. Reconsideration request received
  without the appropriate chain of command coordination will be returned to the member
  without action. Reconsiderations must be received by NGB/HR within 15 days of the date
  member received official notification of the FD action. The member’s chain of command
  will not hold a reconsideration request to circumvent the 15 day submission requirement.
  The decision authority for reconsideration for Lieutenant Colonels and below and SMSgts
  and below is the functional team lead. The decision authority for reconsideration for
  Colonels and CMSgts is the Director, Air National Guard. The reconsideration decisions are
  final. There is no appeal beyond the team lead and Director, Air National Guard, as
  appropriate.
  2.2. Advertising. Advertising will normally be nationwide allowing any current ANG
  member to apply for entrance into the statutory tour program. When deemed necessary, and
  approved by NGB/CF or designated representative, advertisements may be open to Air Force
  Reserve, or active duty Air Force Airmen. Interested members or applicants will respond to
  a formal announcement (Military Vacancy Announcement or MVA). These announcements
  may be viewed on the ANG web page. Agencies requesting a ―fill‖ will include in the MVA
  information of interest regarding the vacancy, and in most cases, mandatory criteria for
  filling the vacancy. The member or applicant must address all mandatory criteria in his or
  her response to the MVA. Mandatory criteria announced in the MVA will not be waived.
  All applications that meet the mandatory criteria will be forwarded to the selecting official
  for review. Selections will be made in accordance with the statutory tour hiring guidance
  (Attachment 14). Complete applications, or responses to MVAs, are to be submitted to
  NGB/HR and must arrive by the close of business on the closeout date. If the application
  package does not arrive by the closeout date and/or is not complete, it will not be considered.
  When applying for multiple MVAs, separate applications will be required. The requisite
  contents of all applications will be as stated in the MVA.
6                                                                  ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


    2.3. Priority Selection. Priority selection will be used on a limited basis as directed by
    CNGB or NGB/CF. This method will be used to fill a vacancy without utilizing any method
    of advertising. Functional Directors must submit rationale to NGB/HR explaining the
    uniqueness of the situation, the reason why the position should not be advertised, and why
    the nominee is uniquely qualified above other available personnel within the same career
    field. NGB/CF is the final approval for all priority selection actions. This approval authority
    may not be delegated
    2.4. Management Directed Reassignment.     Statutory tour members are subject to
    management directed reassignment. CNGB or NGB/CF management directed reassignments
    are not advertised.
    2.5. Rated Officer and Career Enlisted Aviator (CEA) Assignments. Limited tours of duty
    in the Statutory Tour Program that have been identified as requiring rated officer or CEA
    aircrew expertise. Aircrew Position Indicator (API) 8 (officer), API 9 (ABM) and API D
    (enlisted) identify UMD requirements that have responsibilities and duties that require the
    incumbent to actively fly. API 4 (officer) and API E (enlisted) identify UMD requirements
    that have responsibilities and duties that require aircrew expertise but do not require the
    incumbent to actively fly.
       2.5.1. IAW AFI 38-201, Determining Manpower Requirements, all aircrew requirements
       must be validated by NGB/A3 and documented on an AF Form 480, Aircrew AFSC /
       Active Flying Justification. Validation of an aircrew requirement will be based upon the
       duties and responsibilities identified on the Unit Manpower Document (UMD) position
       description.
       2.5.2. Incumbents assigned to API 4/E, API 8/D or API-9 positions must be a U.S. Air
       Force Rated Officer and/or a CEA medically and professionally qualified for aviation
       service. Aircrew assigned to an API 4/E billet will not maintain flying currency or
       actively fly in the performance of their official duties. Aircrew assigned to an API-8/9/D
       billet must maintain flying currency and actively fly in the performance of their official
       duties.
       2.5.3. The position description for an active flying requirement must support the
       assignment of an active flying assignment for an ANG weapon system. UMD
       requirements will not be changed exclusively to accommodate a specific individual.
       2.5.4. Individuals assigned to API 4/E requirements (non-flying) may fly in an
       Indoctrination Status when deemed necessary, and approved by NGB/A3.
       2.5.5. All rated officers and CEAs, receiving Aviation Career Incentive Pay (ACIP),
       Career Enlisted Flying Incentive Pay (CEFIP) or Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay (HDIP)
       are required to maintain a current flight physical (AF Form 1042).
       2.5.6. For the purposes of maintaining flying currency rated officers and CEAs assigned
       to an ANG Statutory Tour active flying billet must be attached to an ANG, AFRC or
       Active Duty flying unit IAW AFI 11-401, Aviation Management. Flight records,
       Standardization and Evaluation, and Continuation Training records for rated officers and
       CEAs assigned to an active flying billet will be maintained at the unit of attachment.
       Aircrew must in-process with NGB/A3OS to coordinate required NGB/A3 attached flyer
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                        7


       documentation for ANG attached            aircrew,   and   ensure   timely   payment    of
       ACIP/CEFIP/HDIP entitlement.
       2.5.7. Flight records for aircrew assigned to inactive rated or non-rated UMD
       requirements will be maintained by the Host Wing HARM office at Andrews AFB.
       Aircrew must in-process with the Host HARM office to ensure timely payment of
       ACIP/CEFIP/HDIP entitlement.

Section C—Promotions

3. Promotions. Individuals recommended for promotion while participating in the Statutory
Tour Program must meet all mandatory criteria IAW ANGI 36-2502, Promotion of Airmen, or
ANGI 36-2504, Federal Recognition of Promotion in the Air National Guard of the United States
and as a Reserve of the Air Force below the Grade of General Officer. The Functional Director
or designated representative must approve a promotion request prior to submitting to NGB/HR
for processing. Requests to promote members who are careers status within the statutory tour
program and whose subsequent promotion would place them outside the force management
profile (Attachment 16, table 1) will require NGB/CF approval. Member’s who are not currently
career status must sign NGB Form 832, Promotion Statement of Understanding (Attachment 15),
indicating they understand the profile requirements for the grade upon which they are about to
enter. In addition to regulatory requirements, a minimum of a bachelor’s degree is required for
promotion to Major and above. Officers meeting Reserve Officer Personnel Management Act
(ROPMA) Promotion Boards not currently assigned to a position commensurate with the new
grade and/or having not completed the appropriate level Professional Military Education (PME)
will result in a promotion delay IAW AFI 36-2504. Affected members will be required to
compete for positions commensurate to the next grade through the selection processes outlined in
section B of this instruction. The AF Form 709, Promotion Recommendation Form, will be
signed by the senior rater with a ―Do Not Promote‖ for officers meeting the board while assigned
to statutory tour who have failed to complete PME for promotion to the next highest grade and/or
have failed to maintain fitness standards IAW AFI 36-2905 Fitness Program.

Section D—Evaluations

4. Officer Performance Reports (OPR) and Enlisted Performance Reports (EPR). The
Functional Director is responsible for ensuring that OPRs and EPRs are promptly completed on
members assigned to his or her functional directorate, whether statutory tour personnel or regular
Air Force members, IAW AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems.

Section E—Statutory Tour Force Management Review

5. The Force Management Review Process (FMRP).
   5.1. Force Management Review (FMR). The FMR functions as a corporate review vehicle
   to provide openness and consistency. It provides a fair and equitable force shaping process
   to meet the needs of the Air National Guard.
       5.1.1. FMR Composition.       FMR composition (all are voting members, except for
       Advisor/Recorder):
8                                                                 ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


           5.1.1.1. Chairperson: GO (normally 2-star).
           5.1.1.2. Commander, ANGRC.
           5.1.1.3. ANG Command Chief,
           5.1.1.4. NGB Joint Staff Representative (Colonel/or above or Civilian Equivalent).
           5.1.1.5. 1AF Representative (Colonel/or above or Civilian Equivalent).
           5.1.1.6. Field Representative (Colonel or above).
           5.1.1.7. Advisor/Recorder – NGB/HR (non-voting).
       5.1.2. The Director Air National Guard may appoint up to three additional members to
       serve on the FMR beyond the membership below (Attachment 17). These appointments
       should be utilized to ensure appropriate gender and minority representation within the
       FMR membership.            The Director, Air National Guard will review and
       approve/disapprove extension of any statutory tour members who serve on the FMR and
       meet criteria for consideration. The recommendations of the FMR are advisory only and
       must be approved by Director, Air National Guard.
    5.2. Convenes. Convenes annually to review statutory tour members who have a date of
    separation (DOS) during the next calendar year and must be reviewed for entry into the
    career program (end of probationary tour) or for continuation beyond 20 years total active
    federal military service.
    5.3. Procedures. All proceedings will be held in closed session. All statutory tour members
    being considered by the FMR will receive fair and impartial consideration. FMR will be free
    from any improper command or other influences in the performances of its duties or as a
    result of such performance. Panel members may not discuss or consider outside
    communications or materials not otherwise contained in the material properly presented
    before the FMR. Panel members will not communicate with anyone outside the panel
    membership in reference to the panel proceedings. Individuals appointed to the FMR will be
    administered an oath (Attachment 18) and follow the guidelines in Attachment 16. The panel
    recorder will review all documents before the panel is convened for completeness.
    5.4. The FMR reviews all enlisted and officer statutory tour personnel for entry into ―career
    status‖ or for continuation beyond 20 years total active federal military service. Individual
    career intentions, supervisor, and chain of command recommendations are required for each
    member reviewed by the FMR (as documented on the Career Planning Worksheet (CPW),
    (Attachment 21).
       5.4.1. Entry into the Career Program (extension beyond initial probationary tour). All
       enlisted and officer statutory tour personnel are normally reviewed 10-23 months prior to
       the date of separation of initial (probationary) statutory tour for entry into the career
       program. Candidates for follow-on-tours must be scrutinized to ensure that their current
       grade and Total Active Federal Military Service (TAFMS) allow for normal progression
       within the program and consistency within the force management of the total tour
       population. The statutory tour program is not designed to accommodate multiple tours
       for individuals with minimum amounts of TAFMS. Career status is normally granted to
       individuals who have the ability to attain a military active duty service retirement before
       maximum age (enlisted) or mandatory separation date (officers). Recommendation for
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                       9


     career status must be balanced with the career opportunities within the member’s AFSC.
     A few AFSCs within the statutory tour program are not sustainable and a
     recommendation for career status may not afford the member promotion or career
     development opportunities. Members granted career status (successive tour) shall be
     administered with the understanding that their service may lead to a military retirement
     after attaining the required years of total active federal military service. Additionally,
     members must understand that by entering the career program they accept development
     actions which may result in position changes or geographic displacement. Director/2-
     digit equivalent recommending members for career status must provide justification
     supporting the retention of the member. Justification should include: a career plan that
     captures retention until 20 years TAFMS; explain if and why career field is hard to fill;
     and any special circumstances.
         5.4.1.1. Career Status for Officers. For officers granted career status, the date of
         separation (DOS) will be taken out to 20 years TAFMS or MSD, whichever occurs
         first.
         5.4.1.2. Career Status for Enlisted. For enlisted members granted career status, tour
         continuation (extension) will normally be in 6 year increments up to 20 years TAFMS
         or maximum age, whichever occurs first. Enlisted members need to attain the
         retainability necessary to support the tour continuation through meeting reenlistment
         requirements.
     5.4.2. Continuation beyond 20 Years Active Service. All enlisted and officer statutory
     tour personnel are normally reviewed 10-23 months prior to TAFMSD plus 20 years. A
     follow-on tour for a member who already has attained 20 years TAFMS or more is
     primarily dependent upon the needs of the ANG.                 Director/2-digit equivalent
     recommending members for extension beyond 20 years TAFMS must provide
     justification supporting the retention of the member. Justification should include: Why it
     is in the best interest of the ANG statutory tour program to extend member; identify if the
     individual has promotion potential; identify if there is not a pool of potential candidates
     for the position held and why; what will be done to ready replacement candidates during
     the extension period if granted; and any special circumstances.
         5.4.2.1. Tour Extensions beyond 20 Years Active Service. Approved extensions will
         normally be one year in length. Members would then be required to meet another
         FMR at the end of the approved extension period. Any extension beyond one year
         must be justified.
     5.4.3. Non-continuation on Statutory Tour. Members not selected for entry into the
     career program or continuation beyond 20 years of total active federal military service
     will be provided at least 180 days notification prior to their date of separation (DOS).
     Members eligible for a 20 year active duty retirement may elect to retire or return to state
     of affiliation. All others will be returned to state of affiliation.
  5.5. FMR Recommendations. The panel President will brief and provide the FMR
  recommendations to the Director, Air National Guard. The recommendations of the FMR
  are not binding on the Director, Air National Guard, but will be given serious consideration.
  The FMR recommendations will largely determine which members are extended or not.
  Other than the FMR Report and FMR Minority Report, no record of FMR proceedings will
10                                                                 ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


  be prepared. The Director, Air National Guard will review the recommendations of the
  FMR, and approve or disapprove any or all specific recommendations. The Director, Air
  National Guard is the final approval authority on all actions and will ensure NGB-JA and
  NGB-IG for review prior to initiating any action. The Director, Air National Guard may
  disapprove a panel in its entirety if substantial material errors and/or procedural deficiencies
  are found.
        5.5.1. FMR Report. The recorder (NGB/HR) will publish a report of the FMR action
        and recommendation, using Attachment 23 as a guide, to be submitted to the Director,
        Air National Guard NLT 15 days from the panel completion date.
        5.5.2. FMR Minority Report. Any member of the panel who disagrees with the
        recommendation of the majority of the panel may submit a minority report using
        Attachment 22 as a guide. The member will sign both the minority report and the panel
        proceedings, indicating on the panel proceedings that a minority report is being submitted
        as an attachment to the FMR Report.
  5.6. FMR Decision Criteria. The FMR decisions are based on the needs of the Air National
  Guard. The FMR will consider:
        5.6.1. The member’s Career Planning Worksheet (CPW) (Attachment 21) that lists their
        desire to participate in the statutory tour program and supervisor/2-digit
        recommendations.
        5.6.2. Force Management Profile (FMP) of individual. (Attachment 16, Table 1).
        5.6.3. The ―whole person‖ concept, which includes the following criteria: -Promotion
        Potential / Follow-on Assignments, Time in grade, Time in position, Duty History,
        Military Education, Evaluation Reports (OPRs/EPRs), Physical Fitness Results, any
        official disciplinary actions a matter of record, i.e. Letters of reprimand, etc.
        5.6.4. Current and future force structure. Refer to Attachment 16, Force Management
        Review (FMR) Guidelines, Table 1 Force Management Profile (FMP). The FMP was
        designed to enhance movement within the statutory tour program while focusing on
        entrance into the career program and continuation beyond 20 years Total Active Federal
        Military Service (TAFMS). The Force Management Profile is a management tool to be
        used as a guide in managing the force. Other variables may be considered as the FMR
        panel sees fit.
     5.7. FMR Notification Process.
        5.7.1. Pre-Review and Recommendation Process. NGB/HR will identify statutory tour
        personnel who are to be reviewed 10-23 months prior to tour end date for either career
        status or continuation beyond 20 years of total active federal military service. Not later
        than 60 days prior to the scheduled FMR, pre-review FMR memorandums of notification
        will be provided to any individual considered (Attachment 19) and the Director/2-digit
        (Attachment 20) with suspense for return of the Career Planning Worksheets (CPWs) via
        the Force Management Review website to NGB/HR NLT by the established suspense
        date which will be NLT 30 days prior to the scheduled FMR. The member has an
        affirmative obligation to carefully and completely review the documents that will be
        submitted to the FMR. If the member believes the documents are inaccurate or
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                      11


       incomplete, he or she must bring that purported deficiency in writing to the attention of
       NGB/HR as soon as possible, but in any event no later than three duty days before the
       panel meets. If the member does not concur with the Director/2-digit recommendation on
       the CPW, member may submit personal comments via the Force Management Review
       website to the Statutory Tour Force Management Review (FMR). Comments may
       describe any matter of record concerning the member that is believed to be important for
       the FMR’s consideration. Letters of recommendation from other individuals cannot be
       submitted. All the information provided by the member and entered into the Force
       Management Review website must be accurate and, if called on to do so, the member
       must provide evidence to support any questioned information. To be considered by the
       FMR, the personal comments must be entered into the Force Management Review
       website by the established suspense date which will be clearly indicated on the website.
       NGB/HR will review all CPWs to insure supervisor and/or Director/2-digit
       recommendations, to include member’s signature of acknowledgement are received.
       5.7.2. Post-Review and Notification Process. Post-review FMR memorandums of
       notification communicating the FMR decisions will be prepared for each Director/2-digit
       (Attachment 24) to brief their affected members. Each member will be required to sign a
       statement to acknowledge notification of FMR results (Attachment 25). Normally,
       notifications will be provided to each individual within 60 days following the FMR.
   5.8. FMR Reconsideration Process. The Director, Air National Guard is the authority for all
   reconsiderations. Any statutory tour member may request reconsideration of their FMR
   decision in writing. The request should include justification/documentation not considered
   with the original request. Further, the request should support reconsideration as in the best
   interest of the Air National Guard. The reconsideration request must be reviewed and
   endorsed in a timely manner by each level of command to NGB/HR for processing.
   Endorsements may include support or non-support of individual’s request with additional
   rationale. Reconsideration requests received without the appropriate chain of command
   coordination will be returned to the member without action. Reconsiderations must be
   received by NGB/HR within 30 days of the date on the memorandum of notification of the
   FMR decision. The member’s chain of command will not hold a reconsideration request to
   circumvent the 30 day submission requirement. The reconsideration decision of the Director,
   Air National Guard is final. There is no appeal beyond the Director, Air National Guard.
   5.9. Out of Cycle Reviews. Out of cycle reviews will be as determined and approved by the
   Director, Air National Guard and may be conducted as needed. Such action will include
   approval of all accession, reassignment or promotion of all 0-6 and E-9 actions, any action to
   extend a member’s DOS beyond twenty years of AD, priority selections, action resulting in
   members obtaining career status, and selections from an advertisement of non-ANG
   members.

Section F—Tour Curtailment

6. Tour Curtailment. Statutory tours have a specified start and end date. However, exceptions
are as follows:
   6.1. Voluntary Curtailment. A member desiring to terminate his or her tour prior to their
   DOS must request curtailment in writing through their Director/Office Chief to NGB/HR.
12                                                              ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


  Request should include reason for curtailment and indicate a requested DOS (where possible,
  allow a minimum of 60 days notice). If the request is disapproved, the member’s tour of
  duty will remain unchanged with the same DOS. Active duty service commitments, on a
  case-by-case basis, will be a factor to be considered in the decision to grant the request.
  However, members should not take any action toward terminating their participation in the
  Statutory Tour Program until new orders are published and received reflecting the revised
  DOS. Once approved, members wishing to revoke their request must obtain concurrence
  from their Director/Office Chief.
  6.2. Mandatory separation from Statutory Tour Program. Personnel will be separated for the
  reasons below, regardless of the expiration date of their current tour. Retention is not
  authorized. The involuntary separation procedures of paragraph 6.3. do not apply; however,
  members must be given as much advance notice of separation as possible, ordinarily not less
  than 90 days. Separation of any member currently in the Statutory Tour Program is required
  when:
     6.2.1. Officers Reach Their Mandatory Separation Date (MSD). Officers will be
     separated upon reaching their maximum years of service unless they have completed
     between 18 and 20 years of active federal service for retirement purposes (sanctuary
     zone). Officers who are in the sanctuary zone may request extension of MSD through
     NGB/A1. If approved, MSD will be extended until the end of the month in which they
     reach retirement eligibility.
     6.2.2. Enlisted Personnel Reach Age 60. Enlisted personnel will be separated upon
     reaching age 60 unless they have completed between 18 and 20 years of active federal
     service for retirement under 10 USC 8914. Enlisted members who are in the sanctuary
     zone may request extension beyond age 60 through NGB/A1. If approved MSD will be
     extended until the end of the month in which they reach retirement eligibility.
     6.2.3. The required security clearance is withdrawn, cancelled or cannot be obtained.
  6.3. Involuntary Separations and Separations for Cause from Statutory Tour Program.
  Except as specified in paragraph 6.1., personnel will be involuntarily separated from the
  Statutory Tour Program only IAW procedures prescribed herein. NGB/CF will review all
  recommendations for involuntary separation under this paragraph and will make the final
  determination of whether a member’s tour of duty will be curtailed, as recommended, or the
  member will be retained in the Statutory Tour Program. This authority may not be delegated.
  6.4. Guidelines for Involuntary Separation:
     6.4.1. Functional Directors may recommend a member’s tour be curtailed prior to DOS
     based upon the grounds listed in 6.5. or for any other reasons of incompatibility with the
     Statutory Tour Program. In recommending an involuntary curtailment of tour, the
     Functional Director will document counseling or issue a memorandum of counseling or
     reprimand when an individual’s degree of efficiency, performance of duty, military
     conduct, or the commission of any derogatory act makes the issuance of such document
     appropriate. Normally, a counseling statement (AF Form 174, Record of Individual
     Counseling may be used) or a memorandum of reprimand will be documented in the
     supervisor’s or Functional Director’s records before initiating involuntary separation
     action. When the reason for separation, however, warrants immediate separation,
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                      13


     counseling or a memorandum of reprimand may be omitted. Individuals being counseled
     will verify, in writing, acknowledgement of the counseling session.
     6.4.2. When deciding whether to initiate involuntary separation action, the following
     factors must be considered:
         6.4.2.1. The seriousness of the events or conditions that form the basis for initiating
         separation proceedings. Consider the effect of the member’s continued retention on
         military discipline, good order, and morale. The likelihood that the events or
         conditions will continue or recur.
         6.4.2.2. Whether the actions of the member resulted or are likely to result in an
         adverse impact on accomplishment of the Statutory Tour Program. Substandard
         performance of duties.
         6.4.2.3. The member’s potential for further service.
         6.4.2.4. The member’s military record, this includes past contribution to the ANG,
         assignments, awards and decoration, evaluations, ratings, memorandums of
         commendation, records of non-judicial punishment, records of involvement with
         civilian authorities, and any other matter deemed relevant by the separation authority
         (NGB/CF).
  6.5. Grounds for Separation. The following breaches of discipline are examples of action
  that are incompatible with service in the Statutory Tour Program. Serious consideration
  should be given to involuntarily separating a member from statutory tour for the following
  reasons:
     6.5.1. Acts of misconduct, whether or not connected with the member’s official duties to
     include, conviction for the illegal use of drugs, abuse of alcohol, or moral or professional
     dereliction. Loss of professional qualifications required for the performance of assigned
     duties. Substandard performance of duties or failure to perform assigned duties.
     6.5.2. Acts or expressed sentiments of discrimination, harassment, or prejudice. Failure
     to maintain medical qualification or physical fitness standards. Failure to attain or
     maintain a skill level compatible with the Unit Manning Document (UMD) assignment.
  6.6. Procedures. The supervisor or Functional Director must submit a recommendation to
  NGB/HR to involuntarily separate a member from the Statutory Tour Program. The
  following procedures will be followed:
     6.6.1. The Functional Director is required to submit a fully substantiated and
     documented recommendation to NGB/HR. NGB/HR will consult with NGB Judge
     Advocate (NGB-JA). Upon completion of administrative and legal reviews, NGB/HR
     will issue to the member a letter of notification (LON) informing him or her of the
     recommendation and the proposed action to involuntarily curtail their tour of duty prior
     to DOS. Appropriate written documentation substantiating the specific reasons for the
     recommendation will be provided to the member and forwarded with the LON. Once
     formally notified, a member has the right to submit a written rebuttal and response to the
     recommendation and request a review of the action by NGB/CF. The member’s response
     must include information responding to the Functional Director’s recommendation as
     well as any justification supporting retention. The member’s response must be received
14                                                              ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


     within 15 calendar days from date of receipt of notification. When personal notification
     is not practicable or otherwise available, notice will be forwarded to the member’s last
     known address, certified with return receipt requested. All reasonable means of notifying
     a member must be exhausted to accomplish notification. The member’s response or
     rebuttal will be included with the Functional Director’s recommendation at all times the
     matter is reviewed. If the member fails to respond within 15 days, after review of the
     action, NGB/CF may direct that orders be issued curtailing the member’s tour of duty.
     Upon NGB/CF notification of early curtailment, the member will have 90 days to
     transition back to the state.
     6.6.2. Personnel pending involuntary separation from the Statutory Tour Program will be
     provided the assistance of military legal counsel upon request.
     6.6.3. Upon receipt, NGB/CF will appoint an investigating officer (IO) to conduct a
     review of the actions (to include all documentation) and to make recommendations on the
     issue of whether the member should be involuntarily curtailed or retained in the Statutory
     Tour Program. The IO must be a commissioned officer, senior in grade to the member
     under review, and may not be in the chain of command of either the member or the
     Functional Director making the recommendation. The IO will review the submissions
     and make written recommendations within 10 working days. The IO will limit the scope
     of the investigation to the rationale as recommended by the Functional Director for
     curtailment and the associated rebuttal submitted by the member.                The IOs
     recommendation will be limited to the retention or non-retention of the member. Where
     the IO deems necessary, he or she may solicit additional information from either side as
     well as conduct interviews of the parties and witnesses in order to reconcile disputed
     material facts. Interviews of the parties and witnesses shall be accomplished with sworn
     affidavits where possible. Any extension of the 10-day period for completing the
     investigation shall be submitted directly to NGB/CF with sufficient justification
     warranting the time being requested.
     6.6.4. The IO shall submit the recommendation to NGB/CF for review. NGB/CF may
     order additional investigation if not satisfied that the matter in dispute has been fully
     developed. NGB/CF may conduct its review by submitting matters in dispute to a Board
     of Officers as outlined in AFI 51-602 Board of Officers. Once the recommendation is
     reviewed, the IO (or Board, where applicable) will be dismissed and a decision rendered.
     The decision of NGB/CF is final. If the decision is to affirm the recommendation of the
     Functional Director to curtail the member’s tour of duty in the Statutory Tour Program,
     NGB/CF will direct that appropriate orders be prepared and the member will immediately
     begin steps to effect a return to state control. Members separated for cause may be
     considered for separation from active status in the ANG. If the member is to be
     concurrently discharged from active status in the ANG while remaining in the Statutory
     Tour Program, the provision of AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen,
     applies. If the decision is to retain the member, NGB/CF will direct that the case be fully
     dismissed or direct such other further action as deemed appropriate for retaining the
     member in the Statutory Tour Program.
  6.7. Statutory Tour members involuntarily separated before the scheduled end of a tour who
  meet the eligibility requirements outlined in DoD Financial Management Regulation (FMR)
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                    15


   (also see AFI 36-3207, Separating Commissioned Officers) may be eligible for separation
   pay.
   6.8. Members released from the Statutory Tour Program for cause will not be considered for
   a subsequent or future tour in the Statutory Tour Program or Active Duty for Operational
   Support (ADOS) tour. An involuntary release for cause for the purpose of this provision is a
   separation from the Statutory Tour Program under such conditions or circumstances that may
   authorize an involuntary discharge or a court-martial.
7. Forms Adopted. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
8. Forms Prescribed. NGB Form 830, Statutory Tour Statement of Understanding
NGB Form 831, Force Development Statutory Tour Statement of Understanding
NGB Form 832, Promotion Statement of Understanding




                                           HARRY M. WYATT III, Lieutenant General,
                                           USAF
                                           Director, Air National Guard
 16                                                            ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, United States Code, 1 February 2010
Title 32, United States Code, 1 February 2010
AFI 36-2115, Assignments within the Reserve Components, 8 April 2005
AFI 36-2116, Extended Active Duty for Reserve Component Officers, 1 November 1997
AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airman, 9 July 2004, Incorporating Through Change
5, 14 September 2010
AFI 36-3207, Separating Commissioned Officers, 9 July 2004, including AFI 36-3207_AFGM1,
13 April 2010
AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems, 15 April 2005
AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System, 30 August 2006
AFI 38-201, Determining Manpower Requirements, 30 December 2003
AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program, 1 July 2010
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 7 March 2007 Incorporating Through Change 2, 18 May
2009
AFI 51-602, Board of Officers, 2 March 1994
ANGI 36-2502, Promotion of Airmen, 17 January 2010
ANGI 36-2504, Federal Recognition of Promotion in the Air National Guard of the United States
and as a Reserve of the Air Force below the Grade of General Officer, 28 July 2004
DoDI 1205.18, Full Time Support (FTS) to the Reserve Components, 4 May 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACIP—Aviation Career Incentive Pay
AD—Active Duty
ADSW—Active Duty for Special Work
AGR—Active Guard Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
ANGRC—Air National Guard Readiness Center
ANGUS—Air National Guard of the United States
API—Aircrew Position Indicator
CINC—Commander in Chief
CCM—Command Chief Master Sergeant
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                         17


CNGB—Chief of the National Guard Bureau
CPW—Career Planning Worksheet
DoD—Department of Defense
DOS—Date of Separation
DP—Development Plan
DRU—Direct Reporting Units
EPR—Enlisted Performance Report
FDT—Force Development Team
FDC—Force Development Council
FMR—Force Management Review
FOA—Field Operating Agencies
FWG—Financial Working Group
HDIP—Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
IDE—Intermediate Developmental Education
IFR—Individual Flight Records
IO—Investigating Officer
LON—Letter of Notification
MAJCOM—Major Command
MSD—Mandatory Separation Date
MVA—Military Vacancy Announcement
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NGB—National Guard Bureau
OPR—Officer Performance Report
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PME—Professional Military Education
ROPMA—Reserve Officer Personnel Management Act
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SDE—Senior Developmental Education
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
 18                                                             ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


UMD—Unit Manning Document

Terms
ANG Functional Director— For the purpose of this instruction, the reference to ANG
Functional Director includes ANG Functional Directors, Office Chiefs, Training and Education
Center Commander, Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Test Center Commander,
1AF/CC and ANG Advisors at the MAJCOM/CG office, or their designated representative.
Career Status— Members within the statutory tour program who have been reviewed and
approved for extension beyond a 4 year probationary period, and have been awarded statutory
tour career management status. Awarded extension will be to 20 years of active duty, age 60 or
MSD whichever comes first.
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                  19


                                    Attachment 2
             STATUTORY TOUR STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING

Figure A2.1. Statutory Tour Statement of Understanding.
 20                                                                ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


                                          Attachment 3
              STATUTORY TOUR FORCE DEVELOPMENT GUIDELINES

A3.1. Objective. Provide senior leadership oversight, guidance and direction for professional
development of statutory tour members focused on developing leaders fully capable of operating
across a strategic, operational and tactical leadership environment. Optimizes personnel decision
processes to ensure we invest education, training, and experiences in the right person at the right
time. Ensures the Stat Tour Program employs personnel in the best possible match to their
aptitudes and expectations. Enhances use of leadership input in the developmental assignment
process. Provides a deliberate process to offer our best candidates developmental assignment
and education opportunities.
A3.2. Purpose. To provide the necessary tools and formal guidance to ensure appropriate
development opportunities are provided during an Airmen career. Implementation will be
realized through a series of deliberate opportunities in education, training, and assignments.
   A3.2.1. Force Development is about:
       A3.2.1.1. Accomplishing ANG missions today and tomorrow.
       A3.2.1.2. Improving enlisted Airmen skills deliberately.
       A3.2.1.3. Using Airmen skills more effectively.
       A3.2.1.4. Listening to enlisted Airmen better about their goals.
       A3.2.1.5. Talking to Airmen more clearly about their potential and possibilities.
   A3.2.2. Force Development is not about:
       A3.2.2.1. Development for its own sake.
       A3.2.2.2. Developing everyone the same.
       A3.2.2.3. Just changing PME.
       A3.2.2.4. The individual’s career field alone.
       A3.2.2.5. The enlisted Airman’s individual promotion.
   A3.2.3. Force Development is designed to be a systematic perspective, which provides a
   deliberate approach based on institutional requirements, senior leader interface, and
   interactive modeling. This will be facilitated with inputs from the Functional Development
   Team (FDT), Directors/2-digit equivalents, and the individual members themselves.
A3.3. Force Development (FD) Tracks and Levels of Development. FD defines three distinct
levels of development: tactical, operational, and strategic. These three levels can be captured in
two tracks: Leadership and Tactical.
   A3.3.1. Tactical Track. Capitalizes and utilizes the segment of the Stat Tour force that
   provides technical skill sets and specialized experience. The primary expectation is to
   provide the capability to retain necessary skills and experience. It includes the Tactical Level
   of development.
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                   21


       A3.3.1.1. Tactical Level. Development to gain knowledge and experience in a primary
       AFSC, combined with educational and leadership training experience. Grow experience
       from initial assignments. Functional growth achieved through assignments within and
       across functional areas (Major and below and Master Sergeant and below)
   A3.3.2. Leadership Track. (Colonel and Lieutenant Colonel and Senior Master Sergeant –
   Chief Master Sergeants). ANG leadership will have the ability to manage senior Stat Tour
   members, and associated requirements. Additionally, these positions will provide the
   platform for force development and assignment experience opportunities for our exceptional
   Stat Tour performers. It includes the Operational and Strategic Levels of development.
       A3.3.2.1. Operational Level. Development to continue to widen experience and
       increased responsibility within a related family of skills. Future leaders, groomed for
       greater responsibility through cross-functional and career broadening. (Lt Cols and
       Colonels and CMSgts and SMSgts)
       A3.3.2.2. Strategic Level. Development that provides challenges to gain breadth of
       experience and leadership perspective. This is the level leaders integrate across broad
       mission areas and specialties to accomplish AF missions. (Colonels and CMSgts)
A3.4. Roles and Responsibilities.
   A3.4.1. Airmen. Responsible for initiating and updating an individual DP to express
   assignment and developmental preferences. Also, responsible for becoming familiar with the
   appropriate career paths for their specialty and seeking the appropriate guidance in
   expressing career preferences on their DP. The DP allows the Airman to express their
   preferences, and allows senior leadership an avenue to assess and communicate the needs of
   the organization and the ANG with an enlisted member’s goals.
   A3.4.2. Rater/Supervisor. Plays an integral role in supporting all aspects of FD through
   mentoring and feedback as documented on the DP. Ensures assigned Airmen complete DPs
   to meet the FD team established schedules.
   A3.4.3. Director/2-digit Equivalent. Directors/2-digit equivalents are responsible for
   understanding and documenting developmental inputs using the DP and disseminating FD
   information to those airmen who work for them. Responsible for reviewing individual’s DP
   and assessing each Airman’s developmental potential. Provides brief written comments to
   the Functional Development Team (FDT) to enhance review via the DP, as appropriate.
   A3.4.4. Functional Manager (FM). Senior leader designated by NGB/CF to provide
   oversight and functional advisory services related to functional communities (may be more
   than one AF specialty that falls under their purview). Functional Manager serves as the
   Chair for their respective Functional Development Team (FDT). The Functional Manager,
   with support of Career Field Manager, develops Functional Career Planning Diagrams
   (CPD). Performs force development and assignment vectoring of enlisted members within
   functional community regardless of location via the Functional Development Team (FDT)
   (i.e., A1 Functional responsible for all Airmen in the AFS of 38XX/3SXXX at NGB/A1,
   TEC, MAJCOM Staff Integrators, etc.). Assignment vectoring is a ―level‖ of next
   assignment (not a specific position).
 22                                                             ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


   A3.4.5. Functional Development Team (FDT). Reviews, considers, and recommends force
   development for all Airmen within their respective functional communities (except for
   Colonels and CMSgts).
   A3.4.6. Force Development Council (FDC). Reviews, considers, and recommends force
   development opportunities for all Colonels and CMSgts and those Airmen forwarded by the
   Functional Development Team (FDT). Provides oversight of personnel development to meet
   both functional family and Air National Guard corporate leadership requirements.
   A3.4.7. NGB/HR. HR will implement and provide oversight for Stat Tour FD. Serves as
   central manager for FD planning, programming, and execution. Participates in developing
   and maintaining tools to execute FD, such as the EDP. Provides support to Functional
   Development Team and Force Development Council as necessary, to include: acts as advisor,
   provides appropriate reports, data, records, or related products. Provides snapshot of
   potential developmental opportunities/assignments when requested. Provide professional,
   logistical, and administrative support, to include coordination of location and timing of
   meetings. Execute lateral and developmental assignments within established guidance and
   prioritization plans.
A3.5. Functional Development Team (FDT) Membership and Procedures. There will be a
Functional Development Team established for each functional area identified by a Functional
Manager in Attachment 5 (officer) and Attachment 6 (enlisted). All proceedings will be held in
a closed session. All statutory tour members being considered by the FDTs will receive fair and
impartial consideration. FDT will be free from any improper command or other influences in the
performances of its duties or as a result of such performance. Panel members will not
communicate with anyone outside the panel membership in reference to the panel proceedings.
Individuals participating on the FDT will be administered an oath (Attachment 10). The team
recorder will review all documents before the panel is convened for completeness
   A3.5.1. FDT Membership:
       A3.5.1.1. Chair: Functional Manager
       A3.5.1.2. Members: Any Director/2 –Digit Equivalent or for enlisted FDTs only, a
       Designated Directorate representative (normally a CMSgt) who has an Airman
       assigned/attached with that functional PAFSC (except for NGB J-Staff and 1AF. Which
       will each provide one Rep (Colonel/CMSgt ore equivalent) to represent all enlisted
       assigned for each functional PAFSC).
       A3.5.1.3. Advisor: NGB/HR
   A3.5.2. FDT Procedures.
       A3.5.2.1. Meets once a year or as directed by NGB/CF.
       A3.5.2.2. Reviews DP’s for all Airmen who hold a PAFSC within the respective
       functional area (except for Colonels and CMSgts currently assigned to a key position
       identified in Attachment 4).
       A3.5.2.3. Force Development is deliberate management of assignment experiences,
       combined with education and training opportunities to develop leaders. Therefore, each
       DP/Airman is reviewed to identify any of the following developmental vectors, if
       appropriate:
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                     23


        A3.5.2.3.1. Training recommendations: any formal or informal training that may be
        required or preferred based on AFSC or current position.
        A3.5.2.3.2. Educational Recommendations: DE opportunities – BDE, IDE, SDE or
        Congressional Fellowship (officers only)
        A3.5.2.3.3. Assignment Experiences: Identify recommended assignments, or actual
        lateral assignment that is recommended for further development of Airmen, to include
        field command opportunities for officers.
     A3.5.2.4. Key considerations for identifying developmental vectors:
        A3.5.2.4.1. Airman’s career gates: Time-in-Position (TIP) (>3 years), Rank/Time-
        in-grade, Years of Service, TAFMS, MSD, etc.
        A3.5.2.4.2. Airman’s prior assignments, training, military education, professional
        military education.
        A3.5.2.4.3. Airman’s       developmental    preferences   and     Director’s/2-digits
        recommendations/assessment.         Balance individual’s desires, availability, and
        potential with institutional requirements.
        A3.5.2.4.4. Airman’s development potential.
        A3.5.2.4.5. Remember that common to all career fields are development
        opportunities at the tactical, operational, and strategic levels. At the foundation,
        Airman will establish a solid grounding at the tactical level in a primary career field.
        Some Airman will remain at the tactical level providing depth of expertise in a
        particular field. Others will progress into positions with increasing levels of
        responsibility and leadership opportunities at the operational and strategic levels.
        There is no ―set path‖ to senior leadership.
        A3.5.2.4.6. An Airman must comply with physical fitness requirements and have no
        ADCON issues for force development consideration.
     A3.5.2.5. For Majors and below and SMSgts and below. FDT should plan development
     of Airman to obtain depth in the functional community (i.e. lateral movement within
     functional community to acquire functional depth).
     A3.5.2.6. For CMSgts, Lt Cols and Colonels (except Colonels and CMSgts assigned to
     key positions identified in Attachment 1). FDT should plan for development of Airmen
     as leaders to include career broadening and skill-pairing. Determine need for
     ―developmental assignment vectors‖ outlined in Attachment 4.
  A3.5.3. FDT Deliverables.
     A3.5.3.1. For Majors and below and SMSgts and below.
        A3.5.3.1.1. Feedback. FDT provides developmental feedback to all Airman via the
        Development Plan (DP).
        A3.5.3.1.2. Lateral Functional Development. Identify any Airman for functional
        development via lateral movement within the functional community. Coordinate
        these movements with affected Directors/2-digit equivalents within the FDT. Provide
        results to HR for execution.
 24                                                             ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


          A3.5.3.1.3. IDE In-residence/ Congressional Fellowship. Identify any Captains or
          Majors who should be considered for in-residence IDE or Congressional Fellowship
          to the Force Development Council. Nominees must be rank ordered.
          A3.5.3.1.4. Field command. Identify any Captains or Majors who should be
          considered for field command rotation to the Force Development Council. Nominees
          must be rank ordered.
       A3.5.3.2. For CMSgts, Lt Cols and Colonels (except Colonels and CMSgts assigned to
       key positions identified in Attachment 4.)
          A3.5.3.2.1. Feedback. FDT provides developmental feedback to all Airmen via the
          Development Plan (DP).
          A3.5.3.2.2. Time-in-Position. Review and identify Airmen at the 3 year time-in-
          position (TIP) point. This review will be to evaluate the need for PCA, PCS, or force
          development electives.
          A3.5.3.2.3. Lateral or Cross Functional Development.       Identify Airmen for
          functional development via lateral movement within the functional community or
          skill-pairing (cross-functional development). Coordinate these movements with
          affected Directors/2-digit equivalents within the FDT. Provide results to HR for
          execution.
          A3.5.3.2.4. SDE In-residence. Identify Lt Cols or Colonels who should be
          considered for in-residence SDE to the Force Development Council. Nominees must
          be rank ordered.
          A3.5.3.2.5. Field command. Identify any Airmen who should be considered for field
          command rotation to the Force Development Council. Nominees must be rank
          ordered.
          A3.5.3.2.6. ―Developmental Assignment Vectors‖. Identify any Airmen or who
          should be considered for ―developmental assignment vectors‖ as identified in
          Attachment 4. to the Force Development Council.
A3.6. Force Development Council (FDC) Membership and Procedures. The FDC provides Stat
Tour Airmen force development for current and future leaders of the ANG. The FDC will
review all Airmen forwarded by the FDTs. All proceedings will be held in a closed session. All
statutory tour members being considered by the FDC will receive fair and impartial
consideration. FDC will be free from any improper command or other influences in the
performances of its duties or as a result of such performance. Panel members will not
communicate with anyone outside the panel membership in reference to the panel proceedings.
Individuals participating on the FDC will be administered an oath (Attachment 10). The
recorder will review all documents before the panel is convened for completeness
   A3.6.1. FDC Membership.
       A3.6.1.1. Members:
          A3.6.1.1.1. Deputy Director, ANG.
          A3.6.1.1.2. ANGRC/CC.
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                     25


        A3.6.1.1.3. 1AF/CC or Designated Rep.
        A3.6.1.1.4. Director, Joint Staff or Designated Rep.
        A3.6.1.1.5. NGB/CCM.
        A3.6.1.1.6. The Director Air National Guard may appoint (Attachment 9) up to three
        additional members to serve beyond the required membership.
     A3.6.1.2. Advisor: NGB/HR
  A3.6.2. FDC Procedures.
     A3.6.2.1. Meets following the Force Development Teams (FDTs).
     A3.6.2.2. Reviews DP’s for all Colonels and CMSgts. Reviews all recommendations for
     IDE/SDE in-residence or Congressional Fellowship, field command opportunities and
     Airmen forwarded for a ―developmental assignment vector‖ as outlined in Attachment 4.
     A3.6.2.3. Force Development is the deliberate management of assignment experiences,
     combined with education and training opportunities to develop leaders. Therefore, each
     DP/Airman is reviewed to identify any of the following developmental vectors, if
     appropriate:
        A3.6.2.3.1. Training recommendations: any formal or informal training that may be
        required or preferred based on AFSC or current position.
        A3.6.2.3.2. Assignment Experiences: Identify recommended assignments, or actual
        lateral assignment that is recommended for further development of Airman.
     A3.6.2.4. Key considerations for identifying developmental vectors:
        A3.6.2.4.1. Airmen career gates: Time-in-Position (TIP) (>3 years), Rank/Time-in-
        grade, Years of Service, TAFMS, etc., MSD, etc.
        A3.6.2.4.2. Airmen prior assignments, training, and military education.
        A3.6.2.4.3. Airmen        developmental     preferences   and     Director’s/2-digits
        recommendations/assessment.         Balance individual’s desires, availability, and
        potential with institutional requirements.
        A3.6.2.4.4. Airmen development potential.
        A3.6.2.4.5. Remember, that common to all career fields are development
        opportunities at the tactical, operational, and strategic levels. At the foundation,
        Airman will establish a solid grounding at the tactical level in a primary career field.
        Some Airman will remain at the tactical level providing depth of expertise in a
        particular field. Other will progress into positions with increasing levels of
        responsibility and leadership opportunities at the operational and strategic levels.
        There is no ―set path‖ to senior leadership.
        A3.6.2.4.6. An Airman must comply with physical fitness requirements and have no
        ADCON issues for force development consideration.
     A3.6.2.5. Review those Airmen forwarded by the FDT for a ―development assignment
     vector‖.
26                                                            ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


  A3.6.3. FDC Deliverables.
     A3.6.3.1. Time-in-Position. Review and identify Colonels and CMSgts at the 3 year
     time-in-position (TIP) point. This review will be to evaluate the need for PCA, PCS, or
     force development electives.
     A3.6.3.2. ―Development Assignment Vectors‖. Review all Airmen identified by each
     FDT for possible developmental assignments. The FDC may select Airmen for
     developmental assignments based on projected vacancies, career broadening, and needs
     of the ANG. Provide results to HR for execution.
     A3.6.3.3. Key Positions. Review all Colonels/CMSgts for development or assignment to
     key positions as outlined in Attachment 4.
     A3.6.3.4. Recommendations:      Provides recommendations for assignment vectors
     pertaining to Colonels and Chiefs, candidates for IDE/SDE in-residence, Congressional
     fellowships and command opportunities to NGB/CF for final approval. (Attachment 11.)
 A3.6.4. Notifications. Notification communicating the force development decisions will be
 prepared by NGB/HR for each Director/2-digit (Attachment 12.) to brief their affected
 members. Each member will be required to sign NGB Form 831, Force Development
 Statutory Tour Statement of Understanding (Attachment 13.). Normally, notifications will be
 provided to each individual within 60 days following the FD.
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                               27


                                      Attachment 4
                 DEVELOPMENTAL VECTORS – KEY POSITIONS

A4.1. DEVELOPMENTAL VECTORS (Career Broadening)
   A4.1.1. Developmental Assignments: Execs, SAF/Air Staff/LL Assignment, NGB J-Staff
   (not 2-digits), MAJCOM (not CG), Field Rotation, Special Duty Assignment, Division
   Chiefs (officers only), Command Assignments (officers only)
   A4.1.2. Developmental Education Enlisted: PME in-residence, CCAF, Bachelor, Masters
   Degree, Developmental Education Officer: IDE/SDE in-residence, Congressional Fellowship
   (Major only).
A4.2. KEY POSITIONS ENLISTED: ANG Command Chief Master Sergeant, 1AF
Command Chief Master Sergeant, ANGRC Command Chief Master Sergeant, NGB Joint Staff
Senior Enlisted Manager, ANG Liaison Superintendent, DOD/SAF positions, Commandant,
Enlisted PME, Enlisted Legislative Liaison, AFSC Functional Managers
A4.3. KEY POSITIONS OFFICER: Director/Office Chiefs/2-digits, MAJCOM CGs/Center
CC’s, SAF FF/JCS/OSD, NGB J-Staff 2-digits.
 28                                                        ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


                                   Attachment 5
     STAT TOUR OFFICER FUNCTIONAL MANAGEMENT AND FDT ALIGNMENT

Table A5.1. Stat Tour Officer Functional Management and FDT Alignment.
FUNCTIONAL MANAGER                                OFFICER CAREER FIELD
A1                                                Support Forces – 38XX

A2                                                Intelligence – 14XX



A3                                                Pilot - 11XX
                                                  Navigator - 12XX
                                                  Space Missile and C2 – 13XX
                                                  Weather - 15WX
                                                  Operations Support – 16XX
                                                  Remote Piloted Aircraft pilot – 18XX
A4                                                Logistics – 21XX

A6                                                Cyber Operations - 17XX
A7                                                Civil Engineer – 32XX
                                                  Security Forces – 31XX
AQ                                                Acquisition – 63XX
                                                  Contracting – 64XX
FM                                                Finance – 65XX


HC                                                Chaplain – 52XX
JA                                                Judge Advocate – 51XX

PA                                                Public Affairs – 35XX
SG                                                Health Services – 41XX
                                                  Biomedical Clinicians – 42XX
                                                  Biomedical Specialist – 43XX
                                                  Physician – 44XX
                                                  Surgery – 45XX
                                                  Nurse – 46XX
                                                  Dental – 47XX
                                                  Aerospace Medicine – 48XX
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                         29


                                   Attachment 6
  STAT TOUR ENLISTED FUNCTIONAL MANAGEMENT AND FDT ALIGNMENT

Table A6.1. Stat Tour Enlisted Functional Management and FDT Alignment.
FUNCTIONAL MANAGER                        AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE
A1                                        Services - 3MXXX
                                          Mission Support – 3SXXX
A2                                        Intelligence – 1NXXX
A3                                        Aircrew Operations – 1AXXX
                                          Command Control Systems Ops – 1CXXX
                                          Aircrew Flight Equipment – 1PXXX
                                          Safety – 1SXXX
                                          Aircrew Protection – 1TXXX
                                          Unmanned Aerospace System (UAS) Sensor
                                          Operator (SO) – 1UXXX
                                          Weather - 1WXXX
A4                                        Manned Aerospace Maintenance - 2AXXX
                                          Fuels – 2PXXX
                                          Logistics Plans- 2GXXX
                                          Missile and Space Systems Maintenance –
                                          2MXXX
                                          Precision Measurement – 2PXXX
                                          Maintenance Management – 2RXXX
                                          Material Management – 2SXXX
                                          Transportation/Vehicle Maintenance – 2TXXX
                                          Munitions & Weapons – 2WXXX
A6                                        Cyberspace – 3DXXX

A7                                        Civil Engineering - 3EXXX
                                          Security Forces - 3PXXX
AQ                                        Contracting – 6CXXX
FM                                        Financial - 6FXXX
HC                                        Chaplain Service Support - 5RXXX
JA                                        Legal - 5JXXX
PA                                        Public Affairs – 3NXXX
SG                                        Medical – 4XXXX Medical – 4AXXX,
                                          4BXXX, 4CXXX, 4DXXX, 4EXXX, 4HXXX,
                                          4JXXX, 4MXXX, 4NXXX, 4PXXX, 4RXXX,
                                          4TXXX, 4VXXX Dental – 4YXXX
 30                                                               ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


                                         Attachment 7
                           SAMPLE DEVELOPMENT PLAN (DP)

DEVELOPMENT PLAN (DP)
Authority: 10 USC 12310
Purpose: To assist individuals plan his or her desired assignment and career objectives combined
with the rater/director/2-digit equivalent, supervisors, and leadership in reviewing career goals,
objectives, and developmental opportunities/assignments.
Routing Use: None
Disclosure: Voluntary, but failure to disclose the information requested will limit your
consideration for developmental opportunities.
______________________________________________________________________________
SECTION I – MEMBER IDENTIFICATION DATA/SERVICE HISTORY
Name Rank Office Symbol:
PAFSC:
2AFSC:
Time-in-Position (TIP):
EDIGS (Date Entered Guard):
DOR:
DOS:
Mandatory Separation Date (MSD):
Active Duty 20 Year Date:
Last PME Completed:
______________________________________________________________________________
SECTION II –PREFERENCES
- Please check your preference(s); if more than one preference is selected, then please identify
preference priority (i.e., 1st, 2nd, 3rd, etc)
- Preferences are not a guarantee of future developmental opportunities or assignments
- An officer must comply with physical fitness requirements and have no ADCON issues for
force development consideration
__ Will be separating within next 12 months (MSD, not extended, etc). ODP not required.
__ Have served less than 3 years in current assignment, and therefore request retention in current
assignment
__ Lateral Assignment within core AFSC to provide breadth and variety within functional area
__ ―Skill-pairing‖, i.e. cross-functional assignment, to increase breadth of experience and
leadership responsibility within related family of skills; experience in a functional community
outside the individual’s primary AFSC
__ Request a ―developmental assignment vector‖. Choices: Exec, SAF, Air Staff, LL
Assignment, NGB J-Staff (not 2-digits), MAJCOM (not CG), Field Rotation/Command
Assignment, or Special Duty Assignment. (Lt Col or Colonel Only)
Preference(s):
__ Request Developmental Education. Choices: Congressional Fellowship (Maj Only), IDE
(Maj w/ less than 16yrs commissioned service) or SDE (Lt Col or Colonel w/less than 25yrs
commissioned service)
Preference(s):
__ Request a ―key assignment‖. Choices: Director/Office Chief/2-digit, MAJCOM CG, Center
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                   31


CC, SAF LL, JCS, OSD, NGB J-Staff 2-digit. (Colonel Only)
Preference(s):
Short Term Goals:
Long Term Goals:
______________________________________________________________________________
SECTION III. FORCE DEVELOPMENT RECOMMENDATIONS.
As part of the Stat Tour Force Development initiative and overall Stat Tour career management
process, the rater/director/2-digit equivalent, and Functional Development Team (FDT) (if
applicable) will provide comments ―vectoring‖ the officer for future developmental
opportunities.
Major and below. FDTs should plan development of officers to obtain depth in the functional
community (i.e., lateral movement within functional community to acquire functional depth).
Developmental feedback is provided by FDT to officers and directors/2-digits via the Officer
Development Plan (ODP).
Recommendations are:
- Will be separating within next 12 months (MSD, not extended, etc). ODP not required.
- Officer does not show potential for force development at this time.
- Served less than 3 years in current assignment, and therefore recommend retention in current
assignment.
- Consider for lateral assignment within core AFSC to provide breadth and variety within
functional area (list preference(s)).
- Recommended for ―skill-pairing‖, i.e. cross-functional assignment, to increase breadth of
experience and leadership responsibility within related family of skills; experience in a
functional community outside the individual’s primary AFSC (list preference(s)).
- Recommended for ―Developmental Education‖. Congressional Fellowship or IDE in-residence
(Maj w/ less than 16yrs commissioned service). (list preference)
Colonel and Lieutenant Colonel. FDTs should plan development of officers to obtain leadership
and career broadening development (does not include Colonel’s assigned to key positions
outlined in Attachment 1, as the FDC plans their development). Developmental feedback is
provided by FDT to officers and directors/2-digits via the Officer Development Plan (ODP).
Recommendations are:
- Will be separating within next 12 months (MSD, not extended, etc). ODP not required.
- Officer does not show potential for force development at this time.
- Served less than 3 years in current assignment, and therefore recommend retention in current
assignment.
- Consider for lateral assignment with core AFSC to provide breadth and variety within
functional area (list preference(s)).
 32                                                              ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


                                        Attachment 8
      STATUTORY TOUR FIELD COMMAND MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

Limited Tours may be sourced by NGB as resources allow.
Command Tour duration will be no less than one year, no greater than two years.
Member will remain part of the Stat Tour Development Program throughout the duration of their
tour.
Members will remain eligible to apply for posted vacancies which may result in promotion
opportunity upon return to Stat Tour
Concurrence with this agreement constitutes TAG approval to allow member to apply for
vacancies within the Stat Tour Program
NGB responsibilities:
Provide support for separation from Stat Tour and subsequent assignment to unit of assignment.
Separation order will include PCS fund cite. (HR).
Track members through the Force Development process (HR).
Provide adjustments (Resource and Controlled Grade) to State MRV and HQs 2I vouchers as
authorized by the FDC (A1M).
Identify an equivalent position for members return to Stat Tour upon completion of command
tour (FDC).
Equivalent position may be within a new directorate or at a new duty location
Provide support to return member to Stat Tour, to include PCS funding.
Return member to Stat Tour Career Status; duration not less than 2 years (HR).
Member’s responsibilities:
Identify supporting unit willing to provide a command tour for a limited period of no less than
one year, and no more than two years.
Accomplish all required actions to separate from Stat Tour, to include out-processing
requirements of the servicing MPF.
Continue to update Officer Development Plan for semi-annual review.
Accomplish all items required to return to Stat Tour prior to authorization of return orders.
Members must remain qualified for worldwide duty. Member will be required to meet physical
standards for entrance back to extended active duty.
If the member remains at the unit in excess of two years, member must reapply and be
competitively selected to re-enter Stat Tour.
Members will receive BAH for location of assignment.
Unit/State Responsibilities:
If applicable, provide a resource (AGR, Tech, or Traditional) as agreed upon with the member.
In the event the member is supported by an NGB employment authorization and control grade,
the State is responsible to ensure the member is placed in a vacant command billet.
Produce the order which places the member in AGR status, and in appropriate command billet.
Allow the member to apply for vacancies in the Stat Tour Program
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                               33


                                       Attachment 9
    FORCE DEVELOPMENT PROCESS (FDP) APPOINTMENT MEMORANDUM
                           FORMAT

MEMORANDUM FOR Chairman and Members of the Calendar Year (XXXX) Force
Development Council (FDC)
FROM: NGB/CF
SUBJECT: Appointment of Calendar Year (XXXX) Force Development Council
The following individuals are appointed to serve on the CY (XXXX) Force Development
Council
Chairman : Rank, Name
Members: Rank, Name
Recorder(s) (w/o vote): Rank, Name
Purpose:
Convene date: The FDC will convene (time), (date), at (location – complete address).
 34                                                                 ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


                                         Attachment 10
 FORCE DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (FDC)/FORCE DEVELOPMENT TEAM (FDT)
                           OATH’S

Recorder administers to voting members:
―Do you swear that you (identify each member by grade/name) will faithfully, without prejudice
or partiality, and having in view both the special fitness of individuals and the efficiency of the
Air National Guard and the United States Air Force, perform duties imposed upon you, that you
understand that no one may dictate, coerce, or attempt to improperly influence your vote, and
that you will not divulge the proceedings or results of this FDC/FDT except to proper authority,
so help you God?‖
 FDC members will respond: ―I do.‖
Chairman administers to Recorder and any non-voting members:
―Do you swear that you (identify each member by grade/name) will faithfully, without prejudice
or partiality, and having in view both the special fitness of individuals and the efficiency of the
Air National guard and the United States Air Force, perform duties imposed upon you, that you
understand that no one may dictate, coerce, or attempt to improperly influence your actions or
deliberations, and that you will not divulge the proceedings or results of this FDC/FDT except to
proper authority, so help you God?‖
Recorder/non-voting members will respond: ―I do.‖
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                   35


                                       Attachment 11
                FORCE DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL REPORT FORMAT

MEMORANDUM FOR (Director, Air National Guard)
FROM:
SUBJECT: Report of CY (XXXX) Force Development Council
Pursuant to NGB/CF memorandum, dated (date), the Force Development Council (FDC)
appointed therein convened at (time), (date), at (location).
The FDC, acting under oath, has carefully reviewed the records of every member submitted for
consideration. The individuals recommended for IDE/SDE in residence, Congressional
Fellowship, field command opportunities and assignment vectors are listed in attachments the
attached.
The panel adjourned at (time) hours, (date).
SIGNATURE BLOCK OF PANEL CHAIR
Attachments
 36                                                              ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


                                        Attachment 12
  SAMPLE POST FDP NOTIFICATION MEMORANDUM FORMAT (DIRECTOR/2-
                              DIGIT)

MEMORANDUM FOR Director/Office Chief/CG
FROM: NGB/HR
SUBJECT: Results – Calendar Year (XXXX) Force Development Process
        Attached are the Calendar Year (XXXX) Force Development Process (FDP) results for
your Directorate/Office. Each of your affected members must be notified by you in person no
later than (date). During notification, you must ensure that each member completes and signs a
CY (XXXX) FDP Member Acknowledgement of Decision Notification. A copy of the signed
acknowledgement must be provided to NGB/HR for each member NLT (date).
        Each individual will be contacted by NGB/HR, on or about (date), to provide specific
instructions. Based on their FMR result, these instructions will prepare them for either
subsequent extension, return to state control, or retirement.
        The point of contact for this issue is (rank, name, office symbol), commercial (XXX)
XXX-XXXX, DSN XXX-XXXX, or email (name)@ang.af.mil.
Attachments
1. List of Directorate/Office CY (XX) FDP Results
2. Copy of FDP Member Acknowledgement of Decision Notification
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                     37


                                   Attachment 13
FORCE DEVELOPMENT STATUTORY TOUR STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING

Figure A13.1. Force Development Statutory Tour Statement of Understanding.
 38                                                               ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


                                         Attachment 14
                            STANDARDIZED HIRING PROCESS

A14.1. NGB/HRD will identify potential statutory tour candidates to the gaining Directorate for
lateral reassignments. Statutory tour candidates may have been previously identified through
force development/force management processes. If a statutory tour candidate cannot be
identified through lateral reassignment, positions will be advertised.
A14.2. Request for advertisements will be accomplished via Fill Action Worksheet.
Advertisements should be for a minimum of 30 days, advertised ANG wide. Advertisements
may be opened to regular Air Force members or Air Force Reserve members when the potential
for limited ANG interest exists. Request to advertise outside of the ANG will be routed by
NGB/HRD through NGB/CF for approval. Requirements identified in military vacancy
announcements should accurately reflect mandatory qualifications, duties, and responsibilities as
outlined in approved position descriptions.
A14.3. Statutory tour members currently identified on a Commander's Administrative Control
roster or unit information file roster will not be considered for statutory tour reassignment.
A14.4. Once a position has closed and all qualified applications are on file, NGB/HRD will
coordinate the following:
   A14.4.1. Coordinate and schedule all interview panels with the gaining Directorate. Two
   weeks during each month will be identified by NGB/HRD to facilitate interviews. Face-to-
   face interviews should be conducted whenever possible (however, time, distance, and cost
   factors may preclude or unnecessarily delay the selection process.) Formal interviews may be
   conducted by phone or video teleconference when face-to-face interviews are not feasible.
      A14.4.2. Interview panel membership should consist of the following:
         A14.4.2.1. One member of the gaining directorate, equal to or above the rank of the
         position being considered, identified on FAW by Directorate.
         A14.4.2.2. One field representative, equal to or above the rank of the position being
         considered, identified by NGB/HRD, or approved by NGB/HRD for 1AF boards.
         A14.4.2.3. One military member from outside the directorate equal to or above the rank
         of the position being considered, identified by NGB/HRD, or approved by NGB/HRD for
         1AF boards.
         A14.4.2.4. Panel members will be representative of candidate diversity to the best of
         abilities.
   A14.4.3. Once interview panel is identified, applications should be scored by panel as
   outlined in a scoring matrix provided by NGB/HRD. Scoring will be used as identification to
   afford applicants interviews. Points may be awarded for, however not limited to:
         A14.4.3.1. Qualifications above and beyond those required for minimal qualification
         A14.4.3.2. Needs of the organization
         A14.4.3.3. Professional military education completion
         A14.4.3.4. Command/Leadership Expertise
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                    39


       A14.4.3.5. Career Advancement Potential/Leadership Potential
   A14.4.4. Interview panel members will provide a series of interview questions to NGB/HR
   for review. Interview panel will utilize the same series of questions for each applicant.
   Panels will score each interview candidate on substance of questions asked. Scores will be
   compiled and reviewed. Upon completion of all interviews, the panel president will provide
   the recommendation to NGB/HR on panel nomination report.
A14.5. NGB/HRD will coordinate all necessary concurrences prior to official notification to the
approved nominee.
 40                                                   ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


                                   Attachment 15
                PROMOTION STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING

Figure A15.1. Promotion Statement of Understanding.
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                       41


                                         Attachment 16
                 FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR) GUIDELINES

A16.1. PROCEEDINGS. All proceedings will be held in closed session. All statutory tour
members being considered by the FMR will receive fair and impartial consideration. FMR will
be free from any improper command or other influences in the performances of its duties or as a
result of such performance. Panel members may not discuss or consider outside communications
or materials not otherwise contained in the material properly presented before the FMR. Panel
members will not communicate with anyone outside the panel membership in reference to the
panel proceedings. Individuals appointed to the FMR will be administered an oath (Attachment
18). The panel recorder will review all documents before the panel is convened for
completeness.
A16.2. FMR OBJECTIVE AND PURPOSE. The Force Management Review (FMR),
established by the Director, Air National Guard, provides supervisors, member’s chain of
command, and senior ANG leadership an opportunity to participate in retention decisions
affecting retention of Title 10 U.S.C. statutory tour personnel. The success of the statutory tour
program relies to a significant extent upon a reasonable mix of personnel with recent field
experience and personnel experienced in the tour program who provide continuity and expertise.
Ensures that only the most capable members serve in the statutory tour program. Affords
members promotion and career development opportunities. Allows for opportunities for
members with recent field experience to enter program, while balancing the need to retain
corporate knowledge and experience of some members. Allows for force shaping based on force
structure and needs of the Air National Guard.
A16.3. PERSONNEL REVIEWED. The FMR reviews all enlisted and officer statutory tour
personnel for entry into ―career status‖ or for continuation beyond 20 years total active federal
military service.      Individual career intentions, supervisor and chain of command
recommendations are required for each member reviewed by the FMR (as documented on the
Career Planning Worksheet (CPW), Attachment 6.5).
   A16.3.1. Entry into the Career Program (extension beyond initial probationary tour). All
   enlisted and officer statutory tour personnel are normally reviewed 10-23 months prior to the
   date of separation of initial (probationary) statutory tour for entry into the career program.
   Candidates for follow-on-tours must be scrutinized to ensure that their current grade and
   Total Active Federal Military Service (TAFMS) allow for normal progression within the
   program and consistency within the force management of the total tour population. The
   statutory tour program is not designed to accommodate multiple tours for individuals with
   minimum amounts of TAFMS. Career status is normally granted to individuals who have the
   ability to attain a military active duty service retirement before maximum age (enlisted) or
   MSD (officers). Recommendation for career status must be balanced with the career
   opportunities within the member’s AFSC. A few AFSCs within the statutory tour program
   are not sustainable and a recommendation for career status may not afford the member
   promotion or career development opportunities. Members granted career status (successive
   tour) shall be administered with the understanding that their service may lead to a military
   retirement after attaining the required years of total active federal military service. If
   member does not meet Force Management Profile (FMP) outlined in Table 1 of FMR policy
   guidance then Director/2-digit equivalent justification must be provided to recommend
 42                                                                ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


   extension of member for entry into the Career Program. Justification should include: a
   career plan that captures retention until 20 years TAFMS; explain if and why career field is
   hard to fill; and any special circumstances.
   A16.3.2. Continuation Beyond 20 Years Active Service. All enlisted and officer statutory
   tour personnel are normally reviewed 10-23 months prior to TAFMSD plus 20 years. A
   follow-on tour for a member who has attained 20 years TAFMS or more is primarily
   dependent upon the needs of the ANG. If member does not meet Force Management Profile
   (FMP) outlined in Table 1 of FMR policy guidance then Director/2-digit equivalent
   justification must be provided to recommend continuation of member beyond 20 years total
   active federal military service. Justification should include: Why it is in the best interest of
   the ANG statutory tour program to extend member; identify if the individual has promotion
   potential; identify if there is not a pool of potential candidates for the position held and why;
   what will be done to ready replacement candidates during the extension period if granted;
   and any special circumstances. Approved extensions beyond 20 years of active duty will
   normally be one year in length.
A16.4. FMR DECISION CRITERIA. The FMR decisions are based on the needs of the Air
National Guard. The FMR will consider: The member’s Career Planning Worksheet (CPW)
(Attachment 21) , Force Management Profile (FMP) of individual. See Table 1 below, Current
and future force structure, the ―whole person‖ concept, which includes the following criteria:
promotion potential / follow-on assignments, time in grade, time in position, duty history,
military education, evaluation reports (OPRs/EPRs), physical fitness results, any official
disciplinary actions a matter of record, i.e. letters of reprimand, etc.
   A16.4.1. Below Force Management Profile (FMP) Table is designed to enhance movement
   within the statutory tour program while focusing on entrance into the career program and
   continuation beyond 20 years Total Active Federal Military Service (TAFMS).

Table A16.1. Force Management Profile (FMP).
      GRADE               Recommended Profile       Separate at
                          for Career Status
                          Minimum TAFMS             20 Year Review
      Colonel             16                        20 or more, TIG met
      Lt Col              12                        20 or more, no advancement
                                                    projected and/or no PME
      Maj                 8                         20 or more, no advancement
                                                    projected and/or no PME
      Capt                4                         NA
      Lt                  NA                        NA
      CMSgt               16                        20 or more, TIG met
      SMSgt               12                        20 or more, no advancement
                                                    projected
      MSgt                8                         20 or more, no advancement
                                                    projected and/or no PME
      TSgt                4                         NA
      SSgt                NA                        NA
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                       43



      *NOTE: The Force Management Profile is a management tool to be used as a
      guide in managing the force. Other variables may be considered as the FMR
      panel sees fit.
A16.5. FMR RECOMMENDATIONS. The panel President will brief and provide the FMR
recommendations to the Director, Air National Guard. The recommendations of the FMR are
not binding on the Director, Air National Guard, but will be given serious consideration. The
FMR recommendations will largely determine which members are extended or not. Other than
the FMR Report and FMR Minority Report, no record of FMR proceedings will be prepared.
The Director, Air National Guard will review the recommendations of the FMR, and approve or
disapprove any or all specific recommendations. The Director, Air National Guard is the final
approval authority on all actions and will forward the FMR results to NGB-JA and NGB-IG for
review prior to action. The Director, Air National Guard may disapprove a panel in its entirety if
substantial material errors and/or procedural deficiencies are found.
   A16.5.1. FMR Report. The recorder (NGB/HR) will publish a report of the FMR action and
   recommendation, using Attachment 6.7 as a guide, to be submitted to the Director, Air
   National Guard NLT 15 days from the panel completion date.
   A16.5.2. FMR Minority Report. Any member of the panel who disagrees with the
   recommendation of the majority of the panel may submit a minority report using Attachment
   6.6 as a guide. The member will sign both the minority report and the panel proceedings,
   indicating on the panel proceedings that a minority report is being submitted as an
   attachment.
 44                                                             ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


                                       Attachment 17
      FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR) APPOINTMENT MEMORANDUM
                            FORMAT

MEMORANDUM FOR Chairman and Members of the Calendar Year (XXXX) Force
Management Review (FMR)
FROM:
SUBJECT: Appointment of Calendar Year (XXXX) Force Management Review
The following individuals are appointed to serve on the CY (XXXX) Management Review
(FMR):
Chairman : Rank, Name
Members: Rank, Name
Recorder(s) (w/o vote): Rank, Name
Purpose: Provide a fair and equitable force shaping process to meet the needs of the Air
National Guard statutory tour force and make recommendations to the approving authority.
Convene date: The FMR will convene (time), (date), at (location – complete address).
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                         45


                                         Attachment 18
                    FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR) OATH’S

Recorder administers to voting members:
―Do you swear that you (identify each member by grade/name) will faithfully, without prejudice
or partiality, and having in view both the special fitness of individuals and the efficiency of the
Air National Guard and the United States Air Force, perform duties imposed upon you, that you
understand that no one may dictate, coerce, or attempt to improperly influence your vote, and
that you will not divulge the proceedings or results of this FMR except to proper authority, so
help you God?‖
 FMR members will respond: ―I do.‖
President administers to Recorder and any non-voting members:
―Do you swear that you (identify each member by grade/name) will faithfully, without prejudice
or partiality, and having in view both the special fitness of individuals and the efficiency of the
Air National guard and the United States Air Force, perform duties imposed upon you, that you
understand that no one may dictate, coerce, or attempt to improperly influence your actions or
deliberations, and that you will not divulge the proceedings or results of this FMR except to
proper authority, so help you God?‖
Recorder/non-voting members will respond: ―I do.‖
 46                                                              ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


                                        Attachment 19
 SAMPLE PRE-REVIEW FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR) NOTIFICATION
                MEMORANDUM FORMAT (INDIVIDUAL)

MEMORANDUM FOR
FROM:
SUBJECT: Notification of Calendar Year (CY) (XXXX) ANG Force Management Review
(FMR)
    You will be considered by the FMR to be convened on or about (date). The Force
Management Review (FMR) will review any member with a date of separation (DOS) in CY
(XXXX) and either is completing their probationary tour for possible entrance into the career
program or for continuation beyond 20 years of total active federal military service. The review
will determine continuation within the ANG statutory tour program.
    Your Career Planning Worksheet (CPW) is located on the FMR website at www.xxx.xx.xxx .
You and your Director/2-digit equivalent must complete the CPW. Your Directorate/2-digit
equivalent has been notified of this requirement. This is an opportunity for you, your
supervisor/Director/2-digit equivalent to discuss career goals and objectives to ensure you
understand their expectations, as well as understand your possible future in the statutory tour
program. You will be required to acknowledge you were briefed on your supervisor/director/2-
digit equivalent recommendation on the CPW by accessing the FMR website following your
meeting with the Director/2 digit equivalent. If you do not concur with the recommendation, you
may submit personal comments via the FMR website. Your personal comments may describe
any matter of record concerning you that is believed to be important for the FMR’s
consideration. You cannot submit letters of recommendation from other individuals. All the
information provided by your must be accurate and if called on to do so, you must provide
evidence to support any questioned information. To be considered by the FMR, your personal
comments must be entered directly into the FMR website and must be accomplished by the
established suspense date which is NLT 15 days prior to the FMR. You have an affirmative
obligation to carefully and completely review the documents that will be submitted to the FMR.
If you believe the documents are inaccurate or incomplete, you must bring that purported
deficiency in writing to the attention of NGB/HR as soon as possible, but in any event no later
than three duty days before the panel meets.
The Director, Air National Guard will convene the FMR, consisting of senior officers and the
ANG Command Chief, to assist in determining which members should be continued in the
statutory tour program based on the needs of the ANG. Sound personnel management of the
statutory tour program requires a constant evaluation of the dynamics of the composition of the
force to meet force shaping requirements. The FMR will review anyone for entry into career
status or continuation beyond 20 years total active federal military service. The statutory tour
program is not designed to accommodate multiple tours for individuals with minimum amounts
of Total Active Federal Military Service (TAFMS) for entry into the career program.
Additionally, continuation beyond 20 years TAFMS is primarily dependent upon the needs of the
ANG statutory tour program and force management.
FMR results will be provided on or about (date). Please contact your Human Resource Manager
for questions or to receive additional assistance with this process.
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                      47


                                        Attachment 20
 SAMPLE PRE-REVIEW FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR) NOTIFICATION
             MEMORANDUM FORMAT (DIRECTOR/2-DIGIT)

MEMORANDUM FOR Director/Office Chief/CG
FROM:
SUBJECT: Members Considered – Calendar Year (XXXX) Force Management Review (FMR)
    Attached is a list of members from your Directorate/Office to be considered by the Calendar
Year (XXXX) Force Management Review (FMR). A Career Planning Worksheet (CPW) for
each member is available for your input and review on the FMR website located at
www.xxx.xxx and is required for all actions. Members will be required to acknowledge that you
briefed them on your recommendation and enter that acknowledgement electronically via the
FMR website CPW. You need to ensure that all CPWs are completed by the established
suspense date (NLT 30 days prior to FMR date).
This is an opportunity for you and their direct supervisor to discuss career goals and objectives
with each individual. You will be required to make a recommendation for entry into career
status or continuation beyond 20 years total active federal military service. The statutory tour
program is not designed to accommodate multiple tours for individuals with minimum amounts
of Total Active Federal Military Service (TAFMS) for entry into the career program.
Additionally, continuation beyond 20 years TAFMS is primarily dependent upon the needs of the
ANG statutory tour program and force management. Please refer to the force management
profiles outlined in Table 1 of the FMR policy guidance.
If a member does not concur with your recommendation, the member may submit personal
comments directly onto the CPW via the FMR website for review by the FMR. The personal
comments may describe any matter of record concerning the member that is believed to be
important for the FMR’s consideration. Letters of recommendation from other individuals
cannot be submitted. All the information entered into the FMR website must be accurate and, if
called on to do so, the member must provide evidence to support any questioned information. To
be considered by the FMR, all inputs must be complete by the established suspense dates
indicated on the FMR website. The member has an affirmative obligation to carefully and
completely review the documents that will be submitted to the FMR. If the member believes the
documents are inaccurate or incomplete, he or she must bring that purported deficiency in
writing to the attention of NGB/HR as soon as possible, but in any event no later than three duty
days before the panel meets.
FMR results will be provided on or about (date). Please contact your Human Resource Manager
for questions or to receive additional assistance with this process.

Attachment
1. List of Directorate/Office CY (XX) FMR Members Considered
 48                                                                 ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


                                          Attachment 21
                  SAMPLE CAREER PLANNING WORKSHEET (CPW)

A21.1. PURPOSE: The CPW is provided as a tool to assist with reviewing career goals,
objectives, and continuation in the ANG Statutory Tour program (not a guarantee of future
assignments).
   A21.1.1. The ―whole person‖ concept which includes: Promotion Potential/Follow-on
   Assignments, Time in grade, time in position, duty history, military education, evaluation
   reports (OPRs/EPRs), physical fitness results, any official disciplinary actions a matter of
   record, i.e. Letters of reprimand, etc.
Part 1 – Member’s Personnel Information/Request. Member will review/complete and provide
feedback to supervisor.
Part 2 – Supervisor/2-digit Recommendation. Supervisor completes and obtains director/2-digit
concurrence. Upon review by the Director, email notification will be sent to the member the
following day.
Part 3 – Member’s Acknowledgement – Review of Recommendation. Member acknowledges
being briefed by filling out checkbox on part 3 of the on-line CPW prior to submission of the
CPW.
CAREER PLANNING WORKSHEET (CPW)
PART 1 – MEMBER’S PERSONNEL INFORMATION/REQUEST
Name:                                              PME Date:
PAFSC                                              Rank
DIEGS                                              2AFSC
DOS                                                DOR
Office Symbol                                      State Code
TAFMSD                                             Time in position
PME last                                           Service date verification status

Career Goals: (Continue on separate sheet and attach, if necessary)

b. I hereby request: (Member will check block)
         Return to state control
         Retirement
         Entrance into the Career Program beyond my probationary tour
         Continuation beyond 20 years total active federal military
         service with an extension of 1 year
c. Leave Selling Eligibility: Enlisted members serving on an initial Title 10 Statutory Tour may
sell up to 60 days accrued leave upon the first extension of the tour. Initial below if you plan on
exercising this option. Note: Payment action cannot be initiated earlier than 90 days prior to
your current DOS.
d. Reemployment Rights (USSERA): All members serving on Title 10 Statutory Tour for more
than 5 years (4 years for previous Title 32 AGRs) will no longer have rights to be re-employed
by their previous employer and need to initiate a plan to exercise or forfeit reemployment rights.
PART 2 - SUPERVISOR RECOMMENDATION
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                       49


a. Entry into the Career Program (extension beyond initial probationary tour). A career plan that
captures retention until 20 years TAFMS; explain if and why career field is hard to fill; and any
special circumstances.
b. Continuation Beyond 20 Years Total Active Federal Military Service. Why it is in the best
interest of the ANG statutory tour program to extend member; identify if the individual has
promotion potential; identify if there is not a pool of potential candidates for the position held
and why; what will be done to ready replacement candidates during the extension period if
granted; and any special circumstances.
PART 3 - DIRECTOR /2-DIGIT RECOMMENDATION
a. Entry into the Career Program (extension beyond initial probationary tour). A career plan that
captures retention until 20 years TAFMS; explain if and why career field is hard to fill; and any
special circumstances.
b. Continuation Beyond 20 Years Total Active Federal Military Service. Why it is in the best
interest of the ANG statutory tour program to extend member; identify if the individual has
promotion potential; identify if there is not a pool of potential candidates for the position held
and why; what will be done to ready replacement candidates during the extension period if
granted; and any special circumstances.
PART 4 - MEMBER'S ACKNOWLEDGEMENT - REVIEW OF RECOMMENDATION
I certify that I have been briefed on the above recommendation concerning my continuation in
the Statutory Tour Program. I also acknowledge that I am aware of the Force Management
Review (FMR) procedures and have been provided the opportunity to receive a copy, if
requested.
If I do not concur with the recommendation above, I understand I may submit personal
comments via the Force Management Review website to the Force Management Review (FMR).
My personal comments may describe any matter of record concerning me that is believed to be
important for the FMR’s consideration. I cannot submit letters or recommendations from other
individuals. All the information that is input into the Force Management Review website must
be accurate and, if called on to do so, I must provide evidence to support any questioned
information. To be considered by the FMR, personal comments must be input into the Force
Management Review website by the established suspense date which is NLT 15 days prior to the
FMR. I understand I have an affirmative obligation to carefully and completely review the
documents that will be submitted to the FMR. If I believe the documents are inaccurate or
incomplete, I must bring that purported deficiency in writing to the attention of NGB/HR as soon
as possible, but in any event no later than three duty days before the panel meets.
PERSONAL DATA - PRIVACY ACT OF 1974 (5 USC 552 A)
 50                                                           ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


                                      Attachment 22
      FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR) MINORITY REPORT FORMAT

MEMORANDUM FOR (Director, Air National Guard)
FROM:
SUBJECT: Minority Report – CY (XXXX) Force Management Review
Pursuant to NGB/CF memorandum, dated (date), I was a member of the CY (XXXX) Force
Management Review which met on (date), and I believe the following individuals (should)
(should not) be extended.
List of Individuals and Reasons:
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                                   51


                                       Attachment 23
             FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR) REPORT FORMAT

MEMORANDUM FOR (Director, Air National Guard)
FROM:
SUBJECT: Report of CY (XXXX) Force Management Review
Pursuant to NGB/CF memorandum, dated (date), the Force Management Review appointed
therein convened at (time), (date), at (location).
The FMR, acting under oath, has carefully reviewed the records of every member submitted for
consideration. The individuals recommended or not recommended for extension are listed in
Attachments 5 and 6 respectively.
The panel adjourned at (time) hours, (date).
SIGNATURE BLOCK OF PANEL CHAIRMAN
Attachments
1. List of Members Recommended for Retention
2. List of Members Not Recommended for Retention
3. Minority Report (when appropriate)
 52                                                               ANGI36-6 9 November 2010


                                        Attachment 24
SAMPLE POST-REVIEW FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR) NOTIFICATION
             MEMORANDUM FORMAT (DIRECTOR/2-DIGIT)

MEMORANDUM FOR Director/Office Chief/CG
FROM:
SUBJECT: Results – Calendar Year (XXXX) Force Management Review
   Attached are the Calendar Year (XXXX) Force Management Review (FMR) results for your
Directorate/Office. Each of your affected members must be notified by you in person no later
than (date). During notification, you must ensure that each member completes and signs a CY
(XXXX) FMR Member Acknowledgement of Decision Notification. A copy of the signed
acknowledgement must be provided to NGB/HR for each member NLT (date).
   Each individual will be contacted by NGB/HR, on or about (date), to provide specific
instructions. Based on their FMR result, these instructions will prepare them for either
subsequent extension, return to state control, or retirement.
Any statutory tour member may request reconsideration of their FMR decision in writing. The
member must justify why the FMR result is not in the best interest of the Air National Guard.
Supporting justification, not provided with the original Career Planning Worksheet (CPW), may
be provided. The reconsideration request must be reviewed and endorsed in a timely manner by
each level of command to NGB/HR for processing. Endorsements must include support or non-
support of individual’s request with additional rationale. Reconsideration requests received
without the appropriate chain of command coordination will be returned to the member without
action. Reconsiderations must be received by NGB/HR within 30 days of the date on the
memorandum of notification of the FMR decision. The member’s chain of command will not
hold a reconsideration request to circumvent the 30 day submission requirement. The
reconsideration decision of the Director, Air National Guard is final. There is no appeal beyond
the Director, Air National Guard.
   The point of contact for this issue is (rank, name, office symbol), commercial (XXX) XXX-
XXXX, DSN XXX-XXXX, or email (name)@ang.af.mil.
Attachments
1. List of Directorate/Office CY (XX) FMR Results
2. Copy of FMR Member Acknowledgement of Decision Notification
ANGI36-6 9 November 2010                                                        53


                                 Attachment 25
          SAMPLE FORCE MANAGEMENT REVIEW (FMR) MEMBER
        ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF DECISION NOTIFICATION FORMAT

Table A25.1. Force Management Review (FMR) Member Acknowledgement of Decesion
Notification.
54   ANGI36-6 9 November 2010
