BY ORDER OF THE CHIEF,                                AIR NATIONAL GUARD INSTRUCTION 34-121
NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU                                                               1 SEPTEMBER 2005
                                                                      Certified Current 26 September 2013
                                                                                                 Services

                                                           DINING SOCIAL CLUB ORGANIZATIONS




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ ANG/SVX (Mr L. Proper)                          Certified by: ANG/CS (Colonel S. Wassermann)
Supersedes ANGR 215-2, 1 December 1984                                                      Pages: 19
                                                                                       Distribution:

This instruction sets forth uniform guidelines and requirements under which private organization (PO)
dining social clubs (DSCs) operate on ANG installations. Under the guidance and requirements estab-
lished by this instruction, DSCs are operated within United States Air Force (USAF) and Air National
Guard (ANG) policy and in compliance with Federal, State, and local laws. DSCs enhance morale and
esprit de corps, provide activities and facilities for fellowship and recreation for ANG members and their
families, and provide services similar to those available to active and reserve forces through the Air Force
Club Program. However, DSCs on ANG installations are not part of the Air Force Club Program.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction substantially revises and replaces ANG Regulation (ANGR) 215-2, Dining Social Club
Organizations. It updates guidance, policy, requirements, and procedures for establishing and organizing
DSCs on ANG installations.
2                                                                      ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                                  Chapter 1

                               ESTABLISHMENT AND MEMBERSHIP

1.1. Purpose. A dining social club (DSC) authorized to operate on an ANG installation can provide sim-
ilar functions and some of the same kinds of services to its members that are available to active duty
forces in the Air Force Club Program. It can also make a positive contribution to the furtherance of goals
and objectives that benefit the members of the Air National Guard (ANG). There can only be one DSC on
an ANG installation. ANG tenant units on an active military installation where the host base operates an
Air Force Club activity may not establish a DSC. If an Air Force club operates on an ANG installation, no
DSC can be established on that installation. Under no circumstances will “hooch bars,” or “pilot lounges,”
or the like be operated on ANG or Air Force (AF) installations.

1.2. Club Configuration—Physical Plant. The DSC membership will determine whether or not sepa-
rate bar facilities are to be maintained for officer and enlisted personnel. Dining rooms are normally
shared.

1.3. Establishing DSCs. DSCs shall be established as not-for-profit membership corporations duly orga-
nized in conformity with State law. Its functions and objectives must be in writing and shall be reviewed
by the senior ANG installation judge advocate, Services Commander or equivalent, and other staff mem-
bers as deemed necessary to permit an informed judgment by the Installation Commander on whether to
authorize a DSC to operate on the installation. Each DSC shall maintain on file at the ANG installation the
organizational documents required by State law and ANG policy, including the certificate or articles of
incorporation, charter or constitution, bylaws, and such other organizational documents as may be
required to:
    1.3.1. Establish member eligibility.
    1.3.2. Designate management responsibilities (including accountability for assets and satisfying lia-
    bilities) to a specific member of the DSC.
    1.3.3. Notify all members of their personal financial responsibility if there are insufficient DSC assets
    to cover all DSC liabilities.
    1.3.4. Provide for a source of revenue.
    1.3.5. Establish liability, workers’ compensation, and facility damage insurance sufficient to insure
    that no liability for personal injury, illness, or death or facility damage/destruction will fall to the
    ANG.
    1.3.6. Provide insurance for the dram-shop theory of liability sufficient to protect member and ANG
    interests. Insurance obtained under this paragraph and paragraph 3.4. shall provide that the insurer is
    not subrogated to the interests of the DSC.
    1.3.7. Provide specific guidance on disposing of residual assets.

1.4. Dissolving a DSC. When a DSC decides to disband or shut down, it must:
    1.4.1. Use its funds to satisfy any of its outstanding debts, liabilities, or obligations.
    1.4.2. Dispose of residual assets as specified by the articles of incorporation, charter, or constitution.
ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                             3


   1.4.3. DSC management must notify the Installation Commander through the Services Commander
   or equivalent of its intent to dissolve the DSC and prepare a time-phased action plan to do so.

1.5. General Policies.
   1.5.1. There is no official relationship between DSCs, which are private organizations, and the ANG
   or any other part of the Federal Government. However, the ANG is interested in and concerned with
   the operation of DSCs when they are operated on ANG installations.
   1.5.2. DSCs are private organizations and will comply with the guidance set forth in Air Force
   Instruction (AFI) 34-223, Private Organization Program, and this ANG Instruction (ANGI). Because
   DSCs have been granted certain waivers to the AFI which have been incorporated into this ANGI, this
   ANGI takes precedence in case of conflict with the AFI. The particular waivers are to AFI 34-223, as
   they pertain to continuous resale activities and the sale of alcoholic and cereal malt beverages.
   1.5.3. Income will not accrue to individual members from a DSC’s activities, except through wages,
   salaries or contracts for services rendered.
   1.5.4. The certificate or articles of incorporation, charter or constitution, bylaws, and operating and
   membership rules are the basic documents by which a DSC is established, administered, and dis-
   solved.

1.6. Membership. DSCs determine their own eligibility rules; however, Installation Commanders should
not approve any DSC that doesn’t primarily focus on the ANG family.

1.7. Membership Cards. Membership Cards will be issued to identify members and to control DSC
patronage. Membership cards will be clearly and distinctly marked, consistent with paragraph 3.3., to
reflect that the membership is in a private organization.

1.8. Reciprocal Privileges. Membership in a DSC does not entitle members to reciprocal privileges in
any US Armed Forces open mess or club or in any other DSC. ANG members on an active Air Force
installation in a Temporary Duty (TDY) status or active duty for training status may join the respective
active duty club as outlined in AFI 34-272, Air Force Club Program. ANG personnel are also authorized
to join Air Force clubs commensurate with their grade and are encouraged to do so when residing within
a convenient distance to said club, especially members of ANG units collocated on active duty or reserve
installations.

1.9. Membership Dues. Members must establish and pay dues at a sufficient level that dues, in conjunc-
tion with other DSC activities, generate enough income to make the DSC financially self-sufficient.
4                                                                   ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                                Chapter 2

                                          RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. ANG Readiness Center.
    2.1.1. The ANG Services Division (ANG/SVX) is the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for for-
    mulating, monitoring, and providing ANG policy on DSCs.
    2.1.2. The ANG Real Estate Branch (ANG/CEPR) is the OPR for providing ANG real estate policy
    in accordance with the Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations) (SAF/
    IEI) directives for granting private organizations temporary use of space on ANG installations.

2.2. State Adjutants General:
    2.2.1. Is the approval authority for the operation of a DSC on ANG installations when recommended
    by the installation commander.
    2.2.2. Provide oversight for annual DSC reviews forwarded by the Assistant Adjutants General for
    Air from Installation Commanders.

2.3. Assistant Adjutants General for Air:
    2.3.1. Ensure all DSCs operating on ANG installations are properly authorized and in compliance
    with applicable Federal, state, and local laws, and applicable Air Force and ANG instructions and pol-
    icies.

2.4. ANG Installation Commander:
    2.4.1. Evaluates requests to operate a DSC on the installation and forwards supported requests to the
    State Adjutant General recommending approval.
    2.4.2. Ensures that not more than one DSC is established on an ANG installation.
    2.4.3. Provides limited supervision and proper oversight to ensure the DSC operates in accordance
    with its establishing documents for the benefit of all members and according to all Federal, State and
    local laws, Air Force and ANG policies, but does not control or dictate internal activities or structure
    of a DSC.
    2.4.4. Requires review of DSC operations at least once a year, and ensures the yearly operational
    review is documented in writing and evaluated by the installation Staff Judge Advocate prior to his or
    her consideration of the report of review. The review evaluates whether the DSC’s operations conform
    to its organizational and operating documents; applicable Federal, State, and local laws; ANG and Air
    Force instructions; and within its lease/license, as applicable. The review also ensures the DSC has
    appropriate insurance coverage. A copy of the report of review with comments and recommendations
    will be sent to the state Assistant Adjutant General for Air.
    2.4.5. Requires an external audit of the DSC operations at least every 18 months. If small amounts of
    money are involved, an external audit may be conducted every three years. The audit will be con-
    ducted by a certified public accountant at the DSC’s sole expense. The unit audit focal point should be
    contacted for audit resources. The DSC shall make available an audited financial statement to its
    members and the Installation Commander.
ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                              5


   2.4.6. Keeps a permanent file on the DSC’s operations. This file will contain copies of the certificate
   or articles of incorporation, charter or constitution, bylaws, letter of approval, appropriate State
   licenses, information about the DSC’s insurance, and other related documents. The file shall include a
   record of the annual reviews made pursuant to paragraph 2.4.4. and a copy of all audits made of the
   organization pursuant to paragraph 2.4.5., or otherwise. This duty may be delegated to the Services
   Commander or equivalent.

2.5. ANG Host Unit Mission Support Group Commander:
   2.5.1. Requires annual verification that the DSC operates according to Air Force and ANG policies,
   the State Articles of Incorporation, and applicable Federal, State, and local laws and ordinances.
   2.5.2. Monitors the operation of the DSC through the Services Commander or equivalent.

2.6. ANG Services Commander or Equivalent:
   2.6.1. Monitors DSC operations to verify they are according to Air Force and ANG policies and pro-
   cedures, their State Articles of Incorporation, and applicable Federal, state, and local laws and ordi-
   nances.
   2.6.2. Reviews DSC advisory committee minutes, and forwards them with recommendations, if any,
   to the Installation Commander.

2.7. ANG Services Base Prime RIBS Manager:
   2.7.1. Assists in monitoring the DSC to verify it operates according to Air Force and ANG policies
   and procedures, their State Articles of Incorporation, and applicable Federal, state, and local laws and
   ordinances.
   2.7.2. Monitors DSC renovation and construction projects.
   2.7.3. Advises the chain of command of any significant DSC problems.
   2.7.4. Maintains documents as specified in AFI 34-223/ANG Sup 1.

2.8. DSC Advisory Committee:
   2.8.1. Basic policy on Air Force advisory committees is outlined in AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropri-
   ated Funds. This policy will be used as a guide by DSC advisory committees.
   2.8.2. The advisory committee of the DSC will consist of ANG personnel acting in their private
   capacities during their off duty time. It hires or appoints a volunteer manager to direct and supervise
   the DSC. The manager is responsible for the day-to-day management of the DSC and performs such
   functions and duties as may be required by the DSC’s bylaws and as directed by the advisory commit-
   tee
   2.8.3. The advisory committee represents the DSC's membership and must have at least five mem-
   bers. All advisory committee members must be club members. The majority must be traditional
   Guardsmen. Voting committee members will be elected by the general membership. Committee mem-
   bership is for one year unless otherwise required in the Articles of Incorporation.
   2.8.4. When a committee member resigns or departs, the advisory committee may hold an election to
   fill the position or appoint a replacement.
6                                                                  ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005


    2.8.5. The chairperson may invite representatives from organizations such as spouses’ clubs to attend
    meetings in a nonvoting, advisory role.
    2.8.6. The chairperson votes only in case of a tie.
    2.8.7. At the minimum, the advisory committee meets once per quarter.
    2.8.8. The DSC manager records any out-of-session actions and sends them to the Installation Com-
    mander through the Services Commander or equivalent to keep him or her informed. They are made a
    matter of record at the next regular Advisory Committee meeting.
    2.8.9. Ensures that the DSC’s manager has established and published operating policies and instruc-
    tions (standards) to prevent over-indulgence in alcoholic and cereal malt beverages and does not
    glamorize such beverages and their consumption.
    2.8.10. Provides for the proper protection of the DSC’s property and its patrons.
    2.8.11. Approves the five-year equipment replacement and facility improvement plan developed by
    the club manager.
    2.8.12. Approves or disapproves club use by nonmembers.
    2.8.13. Suspends or reinstates a member's club privileges or terminates membership when appropri-
    ate.
    2.8.14. Sets hours of operation and dues rates to meet DSC goals and objectives.
    2.8.15. Committee members must be familiar with the contents of this instruction. They cannot
    engage directly in DSC management. The advisory committee advises the DSC manager on the
    degree of member satisfaction with DSC programs, products and services; advises management on the
    desires of members for specific programs, products and services; approves house rules and changes;
    approves hours of operation; approves local rules governing guest privileges; approves reinstatement
    or non-reinstatement of former members whose membership privileges were terminated for cause;
    assists the DSC manager in conducting membership drives; assists the DSC manager in sponsoring
    and conducting special programs or events; and assists the DSC manager in conducting membership
    surveys to make sure the DSC provides programs of interest.

2.9. DSC Manager:
    2.9.1. Directs and supervises the day-to-day operation of the DSC and associated activities in accor-
    dance with Air Force and ANG policies and procedures, State Articles of Incorporation, and applica-
    ble Federal, State, and local laws and ordinances.
    2.9.2. Should (read ought to, not must or shall) develop an annual Business Plan and Marketing Plan,
    use the Air Force Golden Eagle Club Standards, and use a Daily Income and Expense (I&E) State-
    ment to achieve the DSC’s goals, shape the DSC program, and monitor the DSC’s actual-versus-bud-
    get performance..
    2.9.3. Prepares operating and capital requirements budgets; prepares the DSC’s five-year equipment
    replacement and facility improvement plan.
    2.9.4. Establishes Operating Instructions (OIs) for specific functions or tasks performed in the DSC.
    See Attachment 2 for a list of the mandatory OIs (if the DSC does not have the function, then the OI
ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                             7


  is not required). If the DSC does not have these OIs within six weeks after it is approved, the approval
  will be withdrawn and the DSC dissolved (See paragraph 2.2.1.)
  2.9.5. May use Air Force Club Program Procedures as a guide to operate the DSC.
  2.9.6. Ensures manual procedures are available for continued operations if the DSC computer is
  “down” or nonexistent.
  2.9.7. Provides input through the advisory committee and Services Commander or equivalent to
  ANG/SVX on changes needed to ANG DSC policies and procedures.
  2.9.8. Prepares and finalizes the minutes of advisory committee meetings. Committee minutes must
  be detailed enough to keep the installation commander adequately informed. The minutes are for-
  warded to the Services Commander within five workdays after the meeting.
  2.9.9. Conducts membership surveys to make sure the DSC provides programs of interest to its mem-
  bers.
  2.9.10. Additional duties and responsibilities include:
     2.9.10.1. Receiving, safeguarding, accounting for, and disbursing funds.
     2.9.10.2. Payroll accounting to ensure all Federal, State, and local taxes are withheld, collected,
     and remitted.
     2.9.10.3. Preparing budgets and reports on the financial status and efficiency.
     2.9.10.4. Administering employees by providing training, task lists, and procedures for perfor-
     mance of employee functions.
     2.9.10.5. Keeping insurance policies in full force and effect by ensuring premiums are paid on
     time.
     2.9.10.6. Providing for the operation, care, upkeep, and maintenance of all DSC property and ser-
     vices.
     2.9.10.7. Maintaining all books and record of accounts for accounting and audit purposes.
     2.9.10.8. Posting and enforcing operating instructions that prohibit the serving of alcoholic or
     cereal malt beverages to minors, intoxicated or impaired patrons, and providing safeguards to pro-
     tect their welfare.
     2.9.10.9. Providing procedures for the proper control of cash, bingo cards, money substitutes, and
     prizes for bingo and Monte Carlo events when authorized as a DSC activity.
8                                                                       ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                                   Chapter 3

                                            OPERATING A DSC

3.1. DSC Activities. Activities of DSCs will not in any way reflect prejudice or discredit any Department
of Defense (DoD) components or other agencies of the Federal Government. The DSC’s actions shall not
jeopardize the interests of the Government or conflict with authorized governmental activities. Accord-
ingly, games of chance, raffles, lotteries, gambling, related activities, and solicitation of funds by DSCs
for themselves or others are prohibited on ANG installations. Bingo and Monte Carlo events may be per-
mitted as social recreational activities, but not as lottery or gambling events, if they are allowed by Fed-
eral, State and local laws or ordinances and approved by the Installation Commander.

3.2. Discrimination. DSCs may not discriminate in hiring practices or membership policies on the basis
of age, race, religion, color, national origin, disability, ethnic group, marital status, lawful political affilia-
tion, labor organization membership, gender, or other classification prohibited by Federal or State laws.

3.3. Name of DSC. A DSC may use the name or abbreviation of a DoD component, organizational unit,
or installation in its name provided it takes steps to ensure its status as a private organization is apparent
and unambiguous, and to prevent the appearance of official sanction or support by the ANG or any other
part of the Federal Government. The following applies:
    3.3.1. The DSC must have prior approval to use the name or abbreviation. The installation com-
    mander’s approval of the DSC’s establishment, operation, and governing documents is normally suf-
    ficient to document prior approval. However, to use the name or abbreviation of the ANG or State
    Headquarters (HQ) ANG level organizational unit, approval of the Director, ANG or designee is also
    required. To use the name or abbreviation of the Air Force or an Air Force organizational unit, Head-
    quarter United States Air Force, Directorate of Services (HQ USAF/ILV) approval is also required.
    3.3.2. A DSC will not utilize the name or material part of the name of any Air Force nonappropriated
    fund instrumentality (NAFI), e.g., Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) Fund, Lodging Fund, etc.,
    on the DSC’s letterhead, correspondence, or in its title.
    3.3.3. If using the name or abbreviation of a DoD component, organizational unit, or installation, the
    DSC must not mislead members of the public to assume the DSC is an organizational unit of DoD.
    DSCs must prominently display the following disclaimer on all print and electronic media mentioning
    the DSC’s name confirming that the DSC is not a part of DoD: “This is a private organization. It is not
    a part of the Department of Defense or any of its components and it has no governmental status.” This
    disclaimer must also be provided in verbal communications and public announcements when the
    DSC’s name is mentioned.
    3.3.4. A DSC may not use the seal, logo, or insignia of the Department of Defense, any military
    department or military service, organizational unit, or installation on the DSC’s letterhead, correspon-
    dence or in its title. It will not use any seal, logo, insignia, or the like, used by DoD or any DoD com-
    ponent, its programs, locations, or activities on the DSC’s letterhead, correspondence, or in its title.

3.4. Insurance. DSCs must establish and maintain reasonable amounts of commercial insurance to pro-
vide protection against personal liability, workers’ compensation and property damage claims, or other
legal actions that may arise from activities of the organization, its employees, members or guests. Com-
ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                               9


mercial insurance is the sole responsibility of the DSC. Evidence of such insurance coverage and the
amount thereof shall be provided to the Installation Commander. The amount of insurance required may
depend on state law or common practices in the local business community, but must be appropriate to pro-
tect the DSC, the DSC members, the US Government, the USAF, and the ANG from liability.

3.5. Club Income. A DSC must be financially self-sustaining through dues, contributions, service
charges, fees, special assessment of members, or resale of authorized goods and services as set forth
herein. There shall be no direct or indirect financial assistance to a DSC from appropriated funds or
NAFIs.

3.6. Banking. A dual signature bank account must be maintained to protect and disburse DSC funds.

3.7. Training and Employee Development. An effective employee training program is essential to a
successful DSC operation. The DSC’s I&E budget must include funding for employee training and devel-
opment, as required. This includes training for DSC management as well as the staff. Be sure to budget for
all costs related to training, (payroll, supplies, tuition, and travel). DSC staff members may be sent to
applicable locally available education and training. Document all training completed by each employee.

3.8. Tip Reporting, Offset, and Payment. Employees must report all tips received in the course of their
employment. Employers must collect both income tax and social security tax on tips reported by employ-
ees. For guidance, see AFI 34-310, Nonappropriated Fund Personnel Program Management and Admin-
istration Procedures, paragraph 18.32, AF Manual (AFMAN) 34-214, Procedures for Nonappropriated
Funds Financial Management and Accounting, paragraph 6.45, Air Force Services Agency (AFSVA)
Program Training Aid NA-43, Tip Reporting Requirements & Tip Processing Procedures, NA-45, Tip
Allocation Procedures, and NA-47, Charge Tip Payment Procedures, for rules and procedures governing
tip reporting, tip offset, and cash payment for charge tips. The Internal Revenue Service and state publica-
tions are also a good source of information.

3.9. Resale Activities. DSCs’ resale activities shall be limited. All appropriate and necessary Federal,
State, and local licenses and permits that are required to conduct various business and related activities
permitted and contemplated by this instruction shall be obtained by and at the expense of the DSC. State
and local sales taxes shall be collected and remitted. Resale activities are limited to:
   3.9.1. Food Operations.
       3.9.1.1. Costs of sales and labor are the most important manageable costs in a DSC’s food opera-
       tions. (Guidance and procedures are available in AFMAN 34-228 Air Force Club Program Proce-
       dures.)
       3.9.1.2. The DSC manager establishes internal controls and operating procedures. The manager
       may use AFI 34-202, Protecting Nonappropriated Fund Assets and AFI 48-116, Food Safety Pro-
       gram (sanitation procedures are included in AFMAN 34-228.) as guidance.
       3.9.1.3. The DSC manager may refer to AFI 40-104, Nutrition Education, for specific informa-
       tion on meeting recommended nutritional standards.
       3.9.1.4. On occasion, the DSC manager may authorize people to bring in or serve food products
       in DSC facilities.
10                                                                   ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005


        3.9.1.5. DSC food may include meals prepared in a kitchen facility, snacks, such as sandwiches
        and pizzas, and prepackaged snack items like chips, popcorn, and candy or tobacco products. All
        food must be from competent medical authority-approved sources.
     3.9.2. Beverage Operations.
        3.9.2.1. If there are no armed forces sources of alcoholic or cereal malt beverages on an ANG
        installation providing on-premise consumption, they may be provided by the DSC if approved by
        the Installation Commander. DSCs selling alcoholic or cereal malt beverages shall operate such
        sales in strict compliance with the alcoholic beverage laws of the United States and the state and
        municipality in which it is located. Consumption of all legally authorized beverages will be in
        compliance with the state or municipal liquor license. Non-alcoholic beverages will be made
        equally available wherever alcoholic or cereal malt beverages are served.
        3.9.2.2. DSCs will be required to comply with the ANG Installation Commander’s alcohol
        deglamorization program established in accordance with AFI 34-219, Alcoholic Beverage Pro-
        gram, and the requirements of AFI 44-121, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment
        (ADAPT) Program. ANG Installation Commanders shall make use of all available means to make
        ANG personnel aware of alcohol deglamorization and responsible approaches to drinking. DSCs
        will be required to comply with the spirit and intent of the President’s and DoD’s initiatives to pre-
        vent drunken and drugged driving.
        3.9.2.3. The DSC manager establishes operating procedures, and ensures required internal con-
        trols are in place. DSCs should provide a variety of non-alcoholic and alcoholic beverages to meet
        members’ needs. The manager ensures compliance with AFI 34-219, Alcoholic Beverage Pro-
        gram.
        3.9.2.4. Consistent with applicable Federal, state and municipal laws and ordinances, consider
        purchasing alcoholic beverages from the best source consistent with price, item availability, mini-
        mum order requirements, and delivery.
        3.9.2.5. The DSC manager ensures all employees serving and selling alcoholic beverages receive
        initial and annual training in dram shop theory, alcohol abuse awareness, alcohol deglamorization,
        and the Air Force Driving While Intoxicated (DWI) Prevention Program. Document this training
        in accordance with AFI 34-219 to allow for future audit.
        3.9.2.6. In order to protect the interests of the DSC as well as ANG members and their guests, the
        DSC manager shall:
            3.9.2.6.1. Publish operating instructions that prohibit serving alcoholic or cereal malt bever-
            ages to those who appear either to be intoxicated or not in complete control of their faculties.
            3.9.2.6.2. Ensure all servers are aware of these operating instructions.
            3.9.2.6.3. Ensure proper safeguards or controls are set up to protect the welfare of an intoxi-
            cated or impaired patron and the assets of the ANG and the DSC.
     3.9.3. Special Functions. To protect DSC and member interests, the DSC manager shall:
        3.9.3.1. Document each special function on a special function contract.
        3.9.3.2. Ensure the person who books the function agrees to pay the entire bill at the conclusion of
        the event.
ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                            11


       3.9.3.3. Provide Dining In and Dining Out guidance which is available on the ANG/SVX website:
       https://airguard.ang.af.mil/svx/.
       3.9.3.4. Not advertise in civilian off-base media for private or DSC-sponsored functions.
       3.9.3.5. Ensure utility charges are passed on to special functions.
   3.9.4. Morale items not in conflict with those available from the Army & Air Force Exchange Service
   (AAFES) or Air Force Services. DSCs may sell items related to ANG unit morale and identity, such
   as plaques, cups, and hats with ANG/unit emblems, mottoes, etc. DSCs are not permitted to make
   bulk sales of beer, wine, or liquor, nor will they become involved in services or the sale of products
   not directly related to the purpose for which they were established.

3.10. Bingo Operations. Bingo may be conducted on an occasional basis as a social recreational activity,
if it is approved by the Installation Commander after advice from the servicing Staff Judge Advocate that
it is permissible under Federal, state and local law.
   3.10.1. The Installation Commander must place a reasonable cap on bingo prizes to ensure it is not
   viewed as a gambling event.
   3.10.2. Limit play in bingo programs to eligible patrons, their family members and guests. DSC man-
   agement personnel and employees involved in bingo operations (whether on or off duty) and their
   family members may not play bingo sponsored by the employing DSC.
   3.10.3. DSCs will ensure procedures are established for the proper control and accounting of cash,
   bingo cards, and prizes; and that such procedures are a part of the operating instructions of the club.
   3.10.4. The playing of tab bingo, or similar games where in a player pays an amount of money for a
   card or ticket drawn or punched or from which tabs are pulled, rubbed, or peeled to reveal whether the
   holder has won an amount of money or other award is prohibited.

3.11. Monte Carlo (Las Vegas) Events. The DSC manager:
   3.11.1. May offer Monte Carlo games in the United States and its territories and its possessions if
   state and local laws permit them.
   3.11.2. Limits play to members of the club and their adult family members and adult guests.
   3.11.3. Will not allow club personnel, or volunteers working the event, or their family members to
   play.
   3.11.4. Ensures Monte Carlo is a scheduled event and is only conducted occasionally.
   3.11.5. Ensures Monte Carlo games are played for entertainment only and will not provide any mon-
   etary gain to participants in the form of legal tender.
   3.11.6. Will not allow use of electronic or mechanical devices designed and manufactured primarily
   for gambling. Regardless of State or local laws, slot machines, roulette wheels, and other mechanical
   devices designed and manufactured primarily for use in connection with gambling are prohibited as
   part of Monte Carlo events.
   3.11.7. Will not allow the use of legal currency in the games.
   3.11.8. Will ensure that money substitutes are provided to authorized players free of charge.
12                                                                  ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005


     3.11.9. Will not allow money substitutes to be used to buy resale items, including food and beverages.
     Players may not exchange money substitutes for legal tender (currency or coin).
     3.11.10. At the end of the games, may award prizes to players with the most and least “winnings.”
     Also, the DSC may sponsor an auction and permit players to bid their “winnings” on items purchased
     especially for the event.
     3.11.11. Will not allow players to use or exchange money substitutes for legal tender at any time.
     3.11.12. Will not publicize Monte Carlo events in media distributed through the US Postal Service.
     3.11.13. Ensures procedures are established for the proper control of cash, money substitutes, and
     prizes; and these procedures are a part of the operating instructions of the DSC.

3.12. Vending and Amusement Machines (excluding slot machines). Either AAFES, the DSC, Air
Force Services, or the DSC’s concessionaire may own and operate amusement and vending machines in
DSC facilities. All Federal, state and local laws and ordinances must be complied with.
     3.12.1. Vending machines are cash or card-operated mechanical or electronic machines that provide a
     product or service on a self-sustaining basis. Do not sell tobacco products from customer operated
     vending machines. See AFI 34-206, Vending Facility Program for the Blind on Air Force Property,
     for requirements for sharing vending machine income.
     3.12.2. DSCs may not have amusement machines with a cash pay-out feature.
ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                               13


                                                Chapter 4

                             LOGISTICAL SUPPORT AND SERVICES

4.1. Appropriated and NAF Support. No Federal appropriated funds or NAFs are authorized or will be
provided to a DSC.

4.2. DSC Facility.
   4.2.1. The ANG Installation Commander is responsible for ensuring space and facilities for mission
   requirements are not used to support DSC operations. ANG Commanders also must ensure excess
   facilities committed to Congress for disposal as a condition of an approved ANG construction project
   are not used in support of DSC operations. Any DSC operation currently existing in facilities commit-
   ted to Congress for disposal or in facilities that are subsequently required for mission requirements,
   must either be relocated, at the DSC’s expense, to another available facility or discontinue operations.
   4.2.2. Constructing new facilities on an ANG installation specifically in support of establishing a
   DSC is prohibited, even if the facility is constructed totally with donated materials and labor.
   4.2.3. Facility use by a DSC can be partial, or a total use of a building. A DSC using a space within a
   building that is also being used to full mission requirements is joint use space; this requires a license
   and operates at no cost to the Government.

4.3. Real Property Procedures:
   4.3.1. The first consideration is whether or not the installation lease allows for the Air Force to sublet
   to a private organization. If so, an instrument of not longer than five years may be issued.
   4.3.2. The DSC may not sublet or reassign its leased/licensed space to any subordinate entity or per-
   son.
   4.3.3. Joint Use: Joint use is defined as a facility on an ANG installation used by a DSC and an ANG
   mission activity. An example of joint use includes dining facilities which may be used by a DSC when
   not needed for official purposes. Operation or maintenance facilities are considered inappropriate for
   joint use and will not normally be used by DSCs.
   4.3.4. Exclusive Use: Exclusive use is defined as the sole occupant of a facility or portion thereof ded-
   icated for DSC use only.
   4.3.5. Documentation Requirements. All requests must be submitted through the Installation Com-
   mander, Assistant Adjutants General for Air, United States Property and Fiscal Officer (USPFO), and
   ANG/CEPR, in-turn, to the Air Force Real Property Agency, Real Estate Division (AFRPA/RE)
   which will issue a Directive to the Corps Of Engineers to process the license. The request for a DSC
   license to use (joint use or exclusive use) a facility must include the following documentation:
       4.3.5.1. Request letter from the DSC to the Installation Commander, to include proposed hours of
       operation.
       4.3.5.2. Letter of compliance by the Services Commander or equivalent, stating that all regulatory
       requirements have been met and required documentation is on file.
14                                                                   ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005


        4.3.5.3. Installation Staff Judge Advocate letter attesting that “proof of insurance” has been pro-
        vided and that the requirements of this ANGI have been satisfied.
        4.3.5.4. Letter of concurrence from the landowner, as ANG property is leased and licensed to the
        state for Military use. The letter must acknowledge that they have been briefed on any liability
        issues that may apply to them.
        4.3.5.5. If a second party holds a lease from the landowner, then leased the land to the AF, a letter
        of concurrence from them is required. The letter must acknowledge that they have been briefed on
        any liability issues that may apply to them.
        4.3.5.6. Letter of concurrence or coordination from the applicable state USPFO.
        4.3.5.7. Installation Commander approved Facility Board minutes.
        4.3.5.8. Map showing location on installation and building floor plans.
        4.3.5.9. As a non-Air Force entity, a new DSC is required to go through the Base Unit Beddown
        Process before a license can be issued or is allowed to operate on base. This process is detailed in
        AFI 10-503, Base Unit Beddown Program, and DSCs are inherent base functions for ANG instal-
        lations as defined in AFI 10-503, paragraph 4.1.8. If an existing DSC desires to renew its outgrant,
        with no new resource impact, it is considered under AFI 10-503, Paragraph 4.1.10.
            4.3.5.9.1. AF IMT 813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis.
            4.3.5.9.2. Air Conformity statement.
            4.3.5.9.3. Environmental Baseline Survey.

4.4. Exclusive Use Facilities. If a DSC has exclusive use of a facility or portion of a facility on an ANG
installation, the DSC is responsible for total maintenance, upkeep, and repair of the premises. The DSC
will be billed directly by a provider of services or will reimburse the Government for all additive costs
resulting from its use of the facility. The above items will be included in the terms of the license.

4.5. Joint-Use Facilities. The DSC will pay a pro-rata share of utility costs and all additive costs of
maintenance, upkeep, and repair of the joint use facilities resulting from its use of such facilities. The
above items will be included in the terms of the license.

4.6. Equipment and Supplies. A DSC is responsible for furnishing equipment, supplies, and other
materials required in operating any activity that it conducts. Any use of ANG Federal property will be in
accordance with AFI 23-111, Management of Government Property in Possession of the Air Force, para-
graph 8. The Assistant USPFO for property will apply the procedures outlined in AFMAN 23-110, Supply
Procedures, and AFMAN 223-220, Reports of Survey, as appropriate.

4.7. Facility Management.
     4.7.1. The DSC manager ensures compliance with AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security
     Program, AFI 34-201 , AFI 34-202; AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Preven-
     tion Program; and AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection,
     and Health (AFOSH) Standards. The DSC manager ensures:
ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                           15


     4.7.1.1. Requests are submitted for the base civil engineer to inspect and correct any insect or
     rodent infestations (reimbursable).
     4.7.1.2. All employees understand and practice energy conservation and safety rules and proce-
     dures, and wear required protective clothing and equipment in accordance with AFOSH standards.
  4.7.2. Security. Security of the DSC is a responsibility shared by all DSC personnel. Security controls
  are primarily directed at the prevention of losses resulting from forced or unauthorized entry, pilfer-
  age, and receiving irregularities and procedures set up by the Local Security Enforcement Officer.
  4.7.3. Sanitation. The kitchen, food preparation areas, and food storage areas can present major sani-
  tation problems. These areas must be kept clean, neat, and orderly at all times. See procedures for
  guidance in AFMAN 34-228.



                                             DANIEL JAMES III, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             Director, Air National Guard
16                                                                ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 5500-7, Standards of Conduct
AFI 10-503, Base Unit Beddown Program
AFI 23-111, Management of Government Property in the Possession of the Air Force
AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program
AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire prevention Program
AFI 32-9003, Granting Temporary Use of Air Force Real Property
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program
AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds
AFI 34-202, Protecting Nonappropriated Fund Assets
AFI 34-206, Vending Facility Program for the Blind on Air Force Property
AFI 34-208, Property and Casualty Program
AFI 34-209, Nonappropriated Fund Financial Management and Accounting
AFI 34-219, Alcoholic Beverage Program
AFI 34-223, Private Organization Program
AFI 34-254, Services Education and Training
AFI 34-262, Services Programs and Use Eligibility
AFI 34-272, Air Force Club Program
AFI 34-310, Nonappropriated Fund Personnel Management and Administration Procedures
AFI 37-138, Records Disposition-Procedures and Responsibilities
AFI 40-104, Nutrition Education
AFI 44-121, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment (ADAPT) Program
AFI 48-116, Food Safety Program
AFI 48-117, Public Facility Sanitation
AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare and Recreation Programs and Nonappropri-
ated Fund Instrumentalities
AFI 65-107, Nonappropriated Funds Financial Management Oversight Responsibilities
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH)
Program
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manuel
ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                  17


AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property
AFMAN 34-212, Control Procedures for Protection of NAF Assets
AFMAN 34-214, Procedures for Nonappropriated Fund Financial Management and Accounting
AFMAN 34-228, Air Force Club Program Procedures
AFMAN 34-310, Nonappropriated Fund Personnel Program Management and Administration Proce-
dures
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
ANG—Air National Guard
AFSVA—Air Force Services Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
DSC—Dining Social Club
DWI—Driving while intoxicated
HQ—Headquarters
I&E—Income and Expense
MWR—Morale, Welfare, and Recreation
NAF—Nonappropriated Fund
NAFI—Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
TDY—Temporary Duty
US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force
USC—United States Code
USPFO—United States Property and Fiscal Officer

Terms
ANG family—Includes current and retired ANG members, civilian employees (Department of Air Force
18                                                                 ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005


and State) of ANG units, Air Force advisors, and dependents.
ANG installation—A location, facility, or activity leased for the use of or licensed, or assigned to the
ANG by the Federal Government or any of its subsidiaries.
ANG Installation Commander—Normally, the air commander or station commander. At bases operated
solely by the ANG, the base commander is the ANG installation commander. At dual flying unit locations,
the ANG air commander charged with managing consolidated support responsibilities is the ANG
installation commander. When a unique organizational structure exists, the installation commander will
designate an individual to function as the ANG installation commander for the purposes of this ANGI. If
there is any doubt about the person serving as the ANG Installation Commander, defer to the Senior
Ranking ANG Commander of the unit involved.
Cereal Malt Beverage—Beer, ale, and malt liquor derived from yeast-induced fermentation of malted
cereal grain to which hops have been added.
Dining Social Club Lease—A lease of real property granting exclusive occupancy of existing space and/
or facilities on ANG installations to a DSC. A lease requires payment of rent or other consideration in
cash or in kind to the Federal Government
Dining Social Club License—A license to use real property granting non-exclusive or joint use of
existing space and facilities on ANG installations to a DSC. A license must be revocable at will and
require approval of the Installation Commander in writing.
Dining Social Club Organization—A private, not-for-profit membership corporate entity operated and
managed by ANG members acting outside the scope of any official position they may have in the Federal
Government, for the benefit and use of ANG members and their families. A Club operates on an ANG
installation pursuant to and in conformity with the requirements of this instruction. It is not a
nonappropriated fund instrumentality (NAFI) as defined in AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds
(NAFs), or other Air Force publications and is not entitled to the sovereign immunities or privileges given
to NAFIs. It has no legal connection or affiliation with any Federal organization outside of the ANG
installation. It is subject to and must comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws of the
jurisdiction in which the ANG installation is located.
Dining Social Club Organization assets—These are funds and property in the DSC’s custody or
ownership. Funds may come from donations, dues, payments, resale of items, or other receipts. Club
funds may not be combined or commingled with Federal NAF funds (e.g., unit morale funds) or any other
funds. These funds are subject to involuntary Federal audit with the approval of the Installation
Commander. Audit notification would normally be made to the ANG unit audit focal point.
Dram-shop theory of liability—Deals with legal liability created by State law or court decision that
imposes on the server of alcoholic or cereal malt beverages (or the owner or operator of an establishment
that serves alcoholic or cereal malt beverages) the duty to refuse to serve alcoholic or cereal malt
beverages to a patron who reached or appears to be reaching a point of intoxication that might cause that
person to be a danger to himself/herself and/or others.
United States Property and Fiscal Officer (USPFO)—A representative of the Federal government who
has oversight of all Federal assets of the ANG within a state (See 32 United States Code (USC) 708).
ANGI34-121 1 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                          19


                                            Attachment 2

                      ESTABLISHING OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS (OI)

A2.1. Services Prime RIBS Manager. The Services Prime RIBS Manager verifies that the DSC man-
ager writes OIs for specific functions or tasks performed in the DSC. OIs are required for the following
topics:
   A2.1.1. Check cashing procedures
   A2.1.2. Local operating standards (by section)
   A2.1.3. Control of keys
   A2.1.4. Control of club manager’s expense account
   A2.1.5. Labor control
   A2.1.6. Control of DSC property
   A2.1.7. Fire prevention, safety, and emergency actions
   A2.1.8. Facility and equipment maintenance
   A2.1.9. Employee meals
   A2.1.10. Opening and closing procedures
   A2.1.11. Food and beverage cost control and preparation procedures
   A2.1.12. Sale of alcoholic beverages, including drunk and drugged driving prevention program
   A2.1.13. Menu pricing procedures
   A2.1.14. Purchasing and inventory control procedures
   A2.1.15. Bingo operating procedures
   A2.1.16. Employee training
   A2.1.17. Employee recognition
