BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR NATIONAL GUARD INSTRUCTION
CHIEF, NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU                                                  51-504

                                                                          20 NOVEMBER 2014

                                                                                             Law

                                                             AIR NATIONAL GUARD LEGAL
                                                                   ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. NOTICE: This
               publication is available digitally on the NGB-SDP WWW site at
               http://www.ngbpdc.ngb.army.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: ANGRC/JA                                                              Certified by: NGB/CF
                                                                            (Col John S. Joseph)
                                                                                         Pages: 6
Supersedes:    ANGI51-504,
               14 December 2001


This instruction describes the scope and authority for legal assistance which shall be provided by
ANG Judge Advocates and paralegals. Legal assistance is a matter within the inherent authority
of the commander to ensure mission readiness. Eligibility of ANG members for legal assistance
from Active Air Force Legal Assistance Offices is governed by AFI 51-504, Legal Assistance,
Notary, and Preventive Law Programs. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in
this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the
compliance statement.


1. Legal Services and Purpose.
   1.1. Services. ANG judge advocates and paralegals shall provide legal assistance while
   performing in a duty status under Title 10 or Title 32, including while telecommuting, in
   accordance with applicable instructions. (T-0) When providing legal assistance, including
   Special Victim’s Counsel (SVC) Services, to eligible beneficiaries as required by this
   instruction, ANG JAs and paralegals are protected from liability in accordance with 10
   U.S.C. § 1054 and the Federal Tort Claims Act, 28 U.S.C. § 1346 (b) 2nd 2671 et seq.
   (FTCA). Individual states may also have statutes which provide additional protections.
 2                                                           ANGI51-504 20 NOVEMBER 2014


     1.2. Purpose. In order to ensure mission readiness, it is essential that legal assistance is
     available to eligible beneficiaries. Additionally, post-mobilization legal assistance (MLA) is
     a statutorily available to assist members of the reserve components who have been mobilized
     by authorizing them to receive legal assistance for a period of time after his/her release from
     active duty.
2. Scope.
     2.1. Legal Assistance. ANG judge advocates and paralegals (under the professional
     supervision of a judge advocate) shall provide legal assistance with respect to the following
     legal matters to eligible beneficiaries. (T-3)
        2.1.1. Wills.
        2.1.2. Powers of Attorney.
        2.1.3. Living wills and health care directives.
        2.1.4. Notary services.
        2.1.5. Dependent care plans.
        2.1.6. Casualty affairs (death incident to the performance of military duty).
        2.1.7. Employment problems arising from the performance of military duty and subject
        to the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA) or a
        similar state statute.
        2.1.8. Landlord-tenant problems specifically related to performance of military duty.
        2.1.9. Tax problems specifically related to performance of military duty.
        2.1.10. Matters arising from the performance of military duty and subject to the
        Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (SCRA) or a similar state statute. NOTE: The SCRA
        applies only to duty performed in a Title 10 status.
        2.1.11. Providing Special Victim’s Counsel (SVC) Services. SVC will be appointed and
        certified in accordance with Section 2.4 below.
     2.2. Other legal assistance. Other legal assistance is authorized as approved by the National
     Guard Bureau and the Air Force, or by the State Headquarters (HQ) Staff Judge Advocate
     (SJA), the Wing Commander (CC), or other appropriate commander (CC), or the unit SJA.
     2.3. Post-MLA. For purposes of this instruction, mobilization includes (1) an order to active
     duty (Title 10) other than for training for more than 30 days pursuant to full mobilization (10
     U.S.C. § 12301 (a)), partial mobilization (10 U.S.C. § 12302), Presidential Reserve Call-Up
     (10 U.S.C. § 12304), or volunteerism (10 U.S.C. 12301(d))involving deployment when one
     of the above authorities is in effect, (2) a call into Federal service for more than 30 days
     under 10 U.S.C. § 12406 or Chapter 15 of Title 10, U.S.C. or under orders to perform duty
     under the provisions of 32 U.S.C. § 502(f). Post-MLA will be provided to eligible
     beneficiaries during the period of mobilization and after the member's release from active
     duty for a period twice the length of time served on active duty under that order to active
     duty or call into Federal service. Post-MLA is also available from Active Air Force legal
     assistance offices.
ANGI51-504 20 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                      3


   2.4. Special Victim’s Counsel (SVC) Services.
       2.4.1. Purpose. To ensure mission readiness, it is in the best interests of the National
       Guard to provide all eligible victims of sexual assault with the legal assistance of a SVC.
       2.4.2. SVC Eligibility Criteria.
          2.4.2.1. Air National Guard airmen and their dependents, who report they are a
          victim of a sexual assault under the UCMJ or state statutes of military justice, are
          eligible to receive SVC services to the extent authorized by U.S.Code, DoD
          directives, National Guard and Air Force policy and instructions.
          2.4.2.2. Title 10 SVCs. ANG Judge Advocates who are serving in Title 10 status and
          are appointed by the Chief Counsel, National Guard Bureau and certified as an SVC
          by the Service TJAG (or his /her designee) may provide SVC Services to eligible
          victims as authorized by U.S.Code, DoD directives, National Guard and Air Force
          policy and instructions.
          2.4.2.3. Title 32 SVCs. ANG Judge Advocates who are serving in Title 32 status and
          are appointed and certified as SVC by the ANG Assistant to The Judge Advocate
          General of the Air Force (or his/her designee) may provide SVC Services to eligible
          victims as authorized by U.S. Code, DoD directives, National Guard and Air Force
          policy and instructions.
   2.5. Beneficiaries. Members of the ANG, spouses of members, and family members entitled
   to a military identification card are eligible for legal assistance, but not necessarily SVC
   Services. The ANG member must be in a duty status under Title 10 or Title 32 in order for
   his/her spouse and family members to receive legal assistance. (T-3) As resources and
   expertise permit, legal assistance may also be provided to Active Component members, other
   Reserve Component members, and retirees of any military service.
   2.6. Limits on Legal Assistance. Legal assistance shall not be provided on the following
   issues:
       2.6.1. Issues involving personal commercial enterprises, unless related to the SCRA or
       similar state law.
       2.6.2. Criminal matters under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), the local
       state military code, or any other Federal or State criminal law, unless acting as SVC.
       2.6.3. Standards of ethical conduct issues.
       2.6.4. Law of Armed Conflict issues.
       2.6.5. Official matters in which the Air Force (AF) or ANG has an interest or is involved
       in the final resolution, unless acting as SVC.
       2.6.6. Legal issues raised on behalf of another individual, even if that other individual is
       eligible for legal assistance, unless acting as SVC.
       2.6.7. Representation of the client in a court or administrative proceeding, unless acting
       as SVC.
3. Supervisory Responsibilities.
 4                                                           ANGI51-504 20 NOVEMBER 2014


     3.1. The ANG State Headquarters SJA is responsible for monitoring legal assistance
     programs at all ANG legal offices in the State, except for SVC Services, which shall be
     monitored in accordance with the guidelines and instructions issued by the Chief Counsel of
     the National Guard Bureau and the ANG Assistant to TJAG.
     3.2. The unit SJA must ensure that the level of legal assistance services is consistent with
     those services specified in para 2.1, except for SVC Services in paragraph 2.1.11, which
     shall be monitored in accordance with the guidelines and instructions issued by the Chief
     Counsel of the National Guard Bureau and ANG Assistant to TJAG. (T-3)
4. Ethical Responsibilities and Rules.
     4.1. SJAs must administer legal assistance programs in strict compliance with the Rules of
     Professional Responsibility for ANG JAs, local state rules of professional conduct, and to the
     extent that they apply, the AF Rules of Professional Conduct, and other ethics or professional
     responsibility rules, including rules applicable to paralegals. (T-0)
     4.2. Only judge advocates shall provide legal advice. Paralegals shall only provide legal
     assistance under the professional supervision of a judge advocate. (T-0)
     4.3. Information received from a client while providing legal assistance, attorney work
     products, and documents relating to the client are protected confidential communications.
     Information shall not be released without the client's express permission, pursuant to a court
     order, or as otherwise permitted by the Rules of Professional Responsibility for ANG JAs,
     local state rules of professional conduct, and to the extent they apply, the AF Rules of
     Professional Conduct, and other ethics or professional responsibility rules including rules
     applicable to paralegals.
     4.4. Judge advocates providing legal assistance pursuant to this instruction must have private
     office space available. (T-1)
     4.5. Judge advocates providing legal assistance pursuant to this instruction must avoid
     creating the impression that they represent the ANG's interests in resolving the client's
     concerns or that the ANG has an interest in the outcome of the matter. When writing letters
     on a client's behalf, judge advocates and paralegals should not use official letterhead and
     shall include a statement in the letter clarifying that the ANG does not represent the client in
     resolving the matter, unless acting as SVC.
     4.6. Judge advocates providing legal assistance pursuant to this instruction shall not interfere
     with an existing attorney-client relationship.
5. Referrals. Requests for legal assistance which exceed the scope of this instruction shall be
referred to qualified civilian counsel, or if available in the local area, to a bar referral service.
6. Office Administration. Offices may use the DL Wills program, WebLions program, State
Bar materials or any other approved programs or forms in providing legal assistance.
7. Notary Services.
     7.1. ANG judge advocates and paralegals while performing duty under Title 10 or Title 32
     may perform notarial acts, pursuant to the provisions of 10 U.S.C. § 1044a or if qualified as a
     notary public under state law.
ANGI51-504 20 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                   5


     7.1.1. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. § 1044a, ANG judge advocates (even when not in a duty
     status) have the general powers of a notary public in the performance of all notarial acts.
     (NOTE: In a duty status is advised.)
     7.1.2. Pursuant 10 U.S.C. § 1044a(b)(4), ANG paralegals are hereby designated to have
     the general powers of a notary public in the performance of all notarial acts (even when
     in a non-duty status).
     7.1.3. ANG JAs and paralegals may use a seal or stamp citing the authority under Title
     10 U.S.C. 1044a when performing notarial acts under paragraph 7.1.
     7.1.4. ANG commanders may name civilian employees to serve as notaries as part of
     his/her official duties provided they qualify under the laws of the state where they will
     serve.
  7.2. Members of the ANG and beneficiaries eligible for legal assistance may receive notary
  services.
  7.3. The cost of a state notary public commission for a technician employee may be
  reimbursed with Federal funds under 5 U.S.C. § 5945 in accordance with the procedures set
  forth in AFI 51-504.
  7.4. Civilian Employee Notaries. These services may be provided within the limits of the
  commission under the rules and regulations for the jurisdiction. No fees may be charged for
  these notary services.




                                          MICHAEL R. TAHERI, Brigadier General, USAF
                                          Commander, ANGRC
 6                                                     ANGI51-504 20 NOVEMBER 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
5 U.S.C. § 5945, Notary Public Commission Expenses
10 U.S.C. § 1044, Legal Assistance
10 U.S.C. § 1044a, Authority to Act as a Notary
DoDD 1350.4, Legal Assistance Matters
DoDI 6400.07, 25 Nov 2013AFI 51-504, Legal Assistance, Notary, and Preventive Law
Programs
AF Special Victims’ Counsel Charter
NGB SVC ProgramP;/
