BY ORDER OF THE                                     AIR NATIONAL GUARD INSTRUCTION
CHIEF, NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU                                                 32-1001

                                                                                 14 JUNE 2011

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                              OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: NGB/A7O                                                              Certified by: NGB/A7
                                                                          (Col. Renee M. Tatro)
Supersedes:   ANGI32-1001,                                                             Pages: 16
              9 October 2007


This instruction modifies the guidance provided by the 32 series of Air Force publications that
concern the Air National Guard (ANG). This instruction formulates specific operational and
procedural policy guidance to implement execution of installation and facility programs of Air
National Guard Installations and Mission Support (NGB/A7) under the authority of AFPD 32-
10, Installations and Facilities. This instruction and referenced documents prescribe the
procedures and reports necessary in assisting the ANG Base Civil Engineers (BCE) and civil
engineering personnel in the management of Facility Maintenance (FM). Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management, and Air Force Instruction 33-322, Records
Management Program, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is changed to reflect an Air Force Audit recommendation. The revision reflects
responsibilities for Base Civil engineer (BCE), and Real Property personnel to maintain
Construction in Progress (CIP) in ACES-RP. The Real Property Accounts Officer or designee
shall capture actual costs of construction and enter data into ACES. In addition the document
had minor administrative changes and added some statements on energy conservation.
 2                                                                 ANGI32-1001 14 JUNE 2011



                                            Chapter 1

                               POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

1.1. General Information. This Air National Guard Instruction (ANGI) provides the directive
requirements for the operations management of civil engineering. Although the principal focus
is operations, this publication applies to all ANG civil engineering personnel.
1.2. Purpose. This instruction provides direction to the Air National Guard Installations and
Mission Support (NGB/A7), State Military Departments, Base Civil Engineers (BCE), and
design and construction agents concerned with the facility maintenance and construction of ANG
facilities. Policies, procedures and criteria outlined in this instruction apply to all ANG facility
operations and maintenance and minor construction projects, whether entirely or partially
federally funded.
1.3. Applicability of Criteria and Standards. These criteria apply to all new construction,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, alteration, modification, maintenance and repair of existing
facilities. The criteria will not be used solely as a basis for advancing standards of existing
facilities, except where necessary to achieve a minimal acceptable level of safety, quality and
performance, and energy conservation.
ANGI32-1001 14 JUNE 2011                                                                        3


                                             Chapter 2

                                        OBJECTIVES

2.1. Defining. Ensure that ANG installations can support the mission, maintain real property
facilities, and implement programs to accomplish these goals in a cost-effective manner.
2.2. Listing. The BCE and staff are to perform the following functions:
   2.2.1. Shall utilize the Integrated Engineering Management System (IEMS) to manage all
   direct scheduled, emergency, planned, recurring, and self-help work. In addition all Facility
   Operations (FO) funding shall be tracked in IEMS to capture work order and related
   operations data to include utility costs. IEMS will be used to capture and report all fiscal
   transactions incurred within the Facility Operations activities. Whenever practical, paper
   forms mentioned in this instruction should be stored electronically as an attachment to the
   appropriate record within the electronic program.
   2.2.2. Operate, maintain, repair, and construct ANG real property and real property installed
   equipment (RPIE) to accomplish the mission most economically, considering both the total
   life cycle costs and the impact of facilities on the quality of life.
   2.2.3. Maintain capability to correct most emergency conditions 24-hours a day. Establish
   and maintain a service call function during normal duty hours with an on-call or recall
   system for after hour emergency situations. The service call function may serve as the Base
   Civil Engineering (BCE) command center during emergency operations. For this purpose,
   the following information must be readily available:
       2.2.3.1. BCE Contingency Response Plan.
       2.2.3.2. Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
       2.2.3.3. Base/Wing Mobility Plans.
       2.2.3.4. Snow Removal Plan (if applicable).
       2.2.3.5. Equipment status boards.
       2.2.3.6. Utility Contingency Plans.
   2.2.4. Conduct all activities in compliance with applicable US Air Force, Federal, State and
   local requirements, i.e. (safety, health, fire, environmental, security, accessibility, etc.).
   2.2.5. Provide reliable utilities to meet readiness requirements, maintain quality of life, and
   satisfy installation needs. Provide redundant systems as required by base emergency plans,
   Air National Guard Technical letters (ANGETL’s), applicable Air Force Instructions (AFI’s)
   and base leadership priorities.
   2.2.6. Provide base support services (i.e., pest control, grounds maintenance, snow removal,
   etc.).
   2.2.7. Accomplish work requirements quickly and establish standards to address quality,
   customers’ needs, and mission requirements.
4                                                                ANGI32-1001 14 JUNE 2011


    2.2.8. Establish a system to provide a means for customers to accomplish work requirements
    using their own resources such as labor, materials, equipment, or funds. (See ANGPAM 32-
    1002, Self Help).
    2.2.9. Provide customers with the costs of work performed or services provided to their
    facilities when requested.
    2.2.10. Develop and annually update a Facility Management Plan for major work
    requirements (i.e., roofing, pavements, protective coating, etc.). This requirement should
    address work for the next 3-5 years. Coordinate these requirements with the Base Civil
    Engineer to be included in the base Sustainment, Restoration, Modernization (SRM) and
    Military Construction (MILCON) programs.
    2.2.11. Allocate resources effectively, including people, facilities, and equipment to meet
    mission and customer needs.
    2.2.12. Compare hours periodically used to accomplish the work with estimated hours to
    improve estimate accuracy and maximize performance.
    2.2.13. Track all associated work order costs and labor hours within the Integrated
    Engineering Management System (IEMS). Recalculate/verify shop rates annually or more
    often if 25% or greater turn-over of shop personnel occurs.
    2.2.14. Establish a process to measure and continuously improve their support of base
    missions and customers through the use of a customer service program. Establish a customer
    feedback program.
    2.2.15. Establish and maintain a work order holding area. This area will be controlled and
    secure at all times. Establish and maintain an efficient work order identification system.
    Materials identified for specific work orders will not be used for other direct scheduled or
    non scheduled work except for emergencies.
    2.2.16. Maintain procedures for acquiring emergency materials/parts. Establish special
    levels for replacement parts on critical equipment with long lead times for acquisition.
    2.2.17. Establish a system to minimize the accumulation and to maximize the use of residual
    material. All residual materials must be inventoried and stored in a secure and controlled
    location. Residual materials must be used for work orders prior to acquiring new materials.
    All residual materials kept for more than one year must be authorized in writing by the Base
    Civil Engineer.
    2.2.18. Provide trained Prime BEEF / RED HORSE engineering personnel to support ANG
    operations worldwide. Typically, ANG engineering teams are not assigned to a maintenance
    role within a civil engineer unit, but some projects are set aside for special training to
    enhance the skill level of the teams. (See AFI 10-210, PRIME Base Engineer Emergency
    Force (BEEF) Program; AFI 10-211, Civil Engineer Contingency Response Planning).
    2.2.19. Establish and enforce good housekeeping rules in compliance with AFOSH/OSHA
    requirements for all facilities base wide.
    2.2.20. Establish and maintain an effective recurring work program (RWP) that includes an
    effective preventive maintenance program to prolong the life of all Real Property Installed
    Equipment (RPIE) and CE Equipment Authorization Inventory Data (EAID) equipment.
ANGI32-1001 14 JUNE 2011                                                                         5


  2.2.21. Provide and establish an effective Building Managers Program. Real Property,
  Production Control and the Facility Manager should work together to effectively manage the
  Building Manager Program. Building Managers will be senior non commissioned officers
  (NCO’s), or equivalent, appointed in writing by their squadron commander or commander’s
  representative. The Building Manager Program will include a Building Manager handbook
  containing as a minimum, Building Manager responsibilities, base energy policies, CE work
  order process, self help procedures, health and safety requirements, key control policies and a
  building manager facility inspection checklist. A Building Manager training program
  including a lesson plan will be established and used to train new Building Managers (a power
  point briefing may be used). A Building Manager meeting will be conducted and an
  attendance roster maintained every six months or more frequently as required.
  2.2.22. Establish and maintain an effective Vehicle Control Program for all authorized
  vehicles assigned to the unit, to include maintenance and control of the vehicles.
  Commander/BCE should assign a senior NCO, or equivalent and officer as the Vehicle
  Control NCO and Vehicle Control Officer for the unit.
  2.2.23. Establish and maintain facility folders to maintain historical records for each facility.
  The facility folders will contain equipment and roof warranties, certifications (i.e., lighting
  protection, fire alarms and suppression systems, grounding), completed work orders,
  equipment inventories, inspections (i.e., facility, elevators, hoist). Some items may be kept
  with other files or on a computer data base however, the location must be annotated in the
  facility folder.
  2.2.24. Establish and maintain an effective facility survey program, documenting and
  recording surveys at the rate of 33% of facilities per year, completing the survey cycle every
  three years.
  2.2.25. Establish and maintain an effective and secure base facility key program. All keys
  will be requested through the Building Manager. All keys will be tracked using a system that
  will ensure 100% accountability of all facility keys and will not compromise security
  requirements.
  2.2.26. Establish and maintain an effective warranty/guaranty program for RPIE installed
  equipment, to prevent RPIE items from having the warranty voided.
  2.2.27. Provide cost data and status information on hazardous or deficiency abatement
  actions associated with real property facilities and real property installed equipment. (Refer
  to AFI 91-301, Para 2.11., Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire
  Prevention and Health (AFOSH)).
  2.2.28. Include hazardous abatement information in project submittals intended to abate
  hazardous conditions.
  2.2.29. Obtain review and coordination on new construction, facility modification projects or
  work request documents from ground safety, fire protection, base communications, and
  environmental officials.
  2.2.30. Ensure that designs for new construction, equipment, or modifications to existing
  facilities or equipment meet OSHA requirements.
6                                                                ANGI32-1001 14 JUNE 2011


    2.2.31. Ensure that Risk Assessment Codes (RAC) are incorporated into the Project by
    Contract Management System for corrective actions.
    2.2.32. Ensure that all projects comply with energy directives and policies if cost effective
    and use Energy Star products where applicable.
ANGI32-1001 14 JUNE 2011                                                                         7


                                           Chapter 3

                                  WORK REQUIREMENTS

3.1. Computer Support. Use the Air National Guard approved computer based tracking
system (IEMS) to improve the ability of Civil Engineering to process data and access
information concerning civil engineering operations and facility management. NGB/A7CC will
provide support of ANG and AF approved computer systems.
   3.1.1. Computerized Work Control Forms. The automated work control system (IEMS)
   contains embedded software/forms to control work requirements.
   3.1.2. Accounting System. Use a time accounting system to record hours and costs to work
   orders and account codes. The system should provide the necessary data to assist with
   managing and analyzing work force effectiveness. Perform periodic reviews to eliminate or
   minimize potential performance problems.
   3.1.3. Work Scheduling. Scheduling of work requirements will be accomplished through
   weekly work scheduling meetings. IEMS will be used to identify scheduled recurring work
   requirements and material complete work orders waiting for scheduling. The Facility
   Manager and Production Controller will work together to establish work priorities and
   generate a weekly work schedule to be assigned to the state work force through the state
   maintenance supervisor. Work will be scheduled by work classification with recurring work
   accomplished first whenever possible. The weekly work schedule will be reviewed the
   following week for work accomplished and rescheduling requirements.
   3.1.4. Recurring Work Program (RWP). Recurring work applies to real property, RPIE, or
   systems and equipment maintained by the BCE. Recurring work consists of operations,
   recurring maintenance, service work, and other recurring work for which the scope and level
   of effort are known without an earlier visit to the job site each time the work is scheduled. It
   includes all recurring work needed to prevent breakdowns of critical facilities, equipment, or
   utilities. The recurring work program is managed within the IEMS automated tracking
   system to ensure that recurring work is accomplished by reserving hours before other routine
   requirements are scheduled. Establish required maintenance action sheets (MAS) through
   the use of Operation and Maintenance (O&M) manuals, Air Force Instructions (AFI’s), Air
   National Guard Engineering Technical Letters (ANGETL’s), Air Force Technical Orders
   (T.O.’s) and trend analysis. Recurring maintenance is not required on low cost expendable
   equipment (i.e., small restroom exhaust fans). The Facility Manager and Production
   Controller, along with shop personnel, are responsible for the annual assessment of the RWP;
   however the Facility Manager oversees the development and maintainability of the program.
3.2. Customer Requests/Work Classification. Customer requests can be electronic, verbal or
written. Civil engineering personnel will ensure that a work order is created for all work
requests, and that the appropriate type of work (Direct Scheduled Work, Planned Work, or
identified Hazard / Emergencies) is assigned.
   3.2.1. Direct Scheduled Work. Work that generally does not require detailed planning;
   previously referred to as job orders.
 8                                                                  ANGI32-1001 14 JUNE 2011


     3.2.2. Emergency. Work required to correct conditions that are detrimental to the mission or
     reduces operational effectiveness and completed within 24 hours of notification. Temporary
     repairs may be made to correct the situation and change the status from Emergency to Urgent
     or Routine.
     3.2.3. Urgent. Work that is not an emergency, but must be responded to and completed
     within 5 workdays of receipt or within 5 workdays after receipt of materials.
     3.2.4. Routine. Work qualifying as Emergency or Urgent Work, but must be accomplished
     within 30 calendar days after identifying the requirement of receipt of material. When
     practical, group routine requirements into work packages and accomplish as a single
     undertaking.
     3.2.5. Planned Work. Work requiring detailed planning or capitalization of the real property
     records. Planner determines the scope, method, quantity and type of resources, estimating
     determines the quantity of resources. Engineered Performance Standards may be utilized to
     produce reliable standard-hour and cost estimates. Any work requiring NGB approval
     should be entered into the Air Force Automated Civil Engineering System- Project Module
     (ACES-PM).
3.3. Work Request Coordination Requirements. The requester must coordinate with Safety,
Fire Department, and Environmental prior to submitting an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer
Work Request, to Civil Engineering. This will ensure that no hazards are created and that any
identified hazards are eliminated. Local civil engineers (CE) may opt to perform this
coordination. CE personnel should also coordinate with local utility owners if necessary. All
required coordination blocks on AF Form 332 should be initialed by the appropriate
organization.
     3.3.1. Coordinate fire hazards through the fire protection flight, or agency having
     jurisdiction, for assignment of a Fire Safety Deficiency Code. Fire protection must
     coordinate on all requested work when either life or safety of personnel is involved. This
     includes rating of materials, fire protection access to an area or facility, or fire protection
     criteria affected by the proposed work such as personnel emergency egress, fire alarms or
     suppression systems.
     3.3.2. Coordinate worker health concerns through the base Bio Environmental Engineering
     Technician (usually assigned to the base medical unit or host medical unit for tenant units)
     for evaluation of a RAC. Refer to AFI 91-301.
     3.3.3. Coordinate safety hazards through the base safety office for RAC assignment. Refer
     to AFI 91-301.
     3.3.4. Coordinate environmental issues, e.g. air emissions from new sources, changes in the
     water drainage systems, etc. to the unit Environmental Manager for appropriate action.
     3.3.5. If the requested work involves environmental impacts that must be evaluated, the
     request for this evaluation is done on an AF Form 813, Request for Environmental Impact
     Analysis. This environmental impact evaluation needs to be provided to the environmental
     management office along with the AF Form 332 or DD Form 1391, Military Construction
     Project Data. The Environmental Manager will determine if the action qualifies for a
     categorical exclusion or requires further analysis such as an environmental assessment.
ANGI32-1001 14 JUNE 2011                                                                          9


   3.3.6. Coordinate with Base Communications to assess impact of facility renovations and
   major repairs.
   3.3.7. Coordinate with appropriate building managers and/or command structure to ensure
   that requests meet mission requirements and local unit needs.
3.4. Approval of Base Civil Engineer Work Request. The decision to approve or disapprove
a work request should be made promptly. Approval authority should be delegated to the lowest
level possible. The individual should be delegated in writing by the BCE. The delegation letter
will identify the funding level and type of funding i.e., Operations and Maintenance (O&M),
Facility Operations (FO) and Sustainment, Restoration, Modernization (SRM). The original
letter shall be kept on file in the appropriate area and reviewed annually. When the work is
likely to exceed the approval authority of the individual who originally approved the work
requirement, the work order must be routed to the appropriate level for approval. All work
requests should be approved by a written signature unless an electronic tracking system is used
and work order approvals are annotated in the data base. This should be kept in the work order
jacket. Refer to AFI 32-1032, Planning and Programming Real Property Maintenance Projects
Using Appropriated Funds, and AFI 32-1022, Planning and Programming of NAF Facility
Construction Projects, for guidance only on work classification and project approval authority
levels. AF Form 332 is not required if an electronic system or tracking program is used.
3.5. Priorities. The following priorities are used for all planned work orders.
   3.5.1. Priority 1 - Mission. Work in direct support of the overall base mission that, if not
   done, would reduce operational objectiveness.
   3.5.2. Priority 2 - Safeguard Life and Property. Work needed to give adequate security to
   areas subject to compromise; to eliminate health, fire, or safety hazards; or to protect
   valuable property or equipment.
   3.5.3. Priority 3 - Support. Work supporting the mission or preventing a breakdown of
   essential operations or housekeeping functions.
   3.5.4. Priority 4 - Necessary. Not qualifying for higher priority.
3.6. Capitalization. Forward completed work orders to real property personnel for
capitalization as required; the real property technician will use reports of completed work orders
for evaluation to determine what work orders shall be capitalized based on scope and cost. For
further guidance see AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting. The planner
clearly documents the identity of changes to real and installed property. For self-help work that
requires capitalization, the planner provides the total cost of doing the work; estimated hours will
be multiplied by either the civil engineering average rate or by the predominant shop rate for the
labor cost.
   3.6.1. Construction in Progress. (CIP)
   3.6.2. Civil Engineering personnel at ANG installations coordinate with installation
   functional managers to obtain necessary project costs and maintain copies of supporting
   documentation to process manual CIP transactions in ACES-RP.
   3.6.3. Civil Engineering personnel periodically review and reconcile CIP data in ACES-RP
   against supporting documentation for accuracy.
 10                                                                ANGI32-1001 14 JUNE 2011


   3.6.4. Accepting new construction from construction agents. The BCE or local construction
   agent will prepare a DD Form 1354 for construction of all new facilities and other property
   meeting the criteria for capitalization, minor construction or alteration performed by local
   contractors or base labor. The BCE is the accepting official for the contract and the RPAO or
   designee shall sign the DD Form 1354 and capitalize the facility.
3.7. Cancellation.
   3.7.1. Cancel work orders only by the same level of authority, or higher, that approved the
   original document.
   3.7.2. Canceled minor construction work orders must be forwarded through real property for
   adjustment to the construction-in-progress account.
3.8. Disapproved Work Requests. Disapproved work requests shall be returned to the
requestor with full justification as to why the request was disapproved. Copies will be sent to all
coordinated parties, see para. 3.3.
3.9. Drawings Update. Forward all completed work orders that change facility layout to
engineering section to update as-built drawings and utility drawings.
ANGI32-1001 14 JUNE 2011                                                                    11


                                          Chapter 4

                 ANAGEMENT CONCEPTS, CONTROLS, AND FORMS

4.1. General. Use NGB/A7C approved information management systems (IEMS) to manage,
control, plan, schedule, and program work requirements in the most efficient means.
4.2. Accounting Procedures. Use time accounting to record hours and costs to work orders and
account codes. The electronic software incorporates the necessary account codes, and other data
to assist with managing time accounting. The hours charged against work types are used for
analysis. Perform periodic reviews to eliminate or minimize potential performance problems.
4.3. Collection of Work Order Numbers. Establish these numbers to accumulate hours and
financial data for repetitious type work. See Attachment 2 for reserved Collection of Work
Order Numbers (CWON).
4.4. Loss of Automated Operation Management System. Establish a redundant system to
manage, control, plan, schedule, and program work requirements during the loss of the
automated system due to power failure, equipment failure or during contingency operations.
Establish a system to track all parts, equipment and personnel cost during emergency and
contingency operations.
4.5. Operation Management Forms. Bases may use approved forms or commercially
available software/ forms to control work requirements. Currently ANG/CE units use an
automated tracking system with all the necessary forms. With data automation becoming the
more preferred and or directed management system, some forms are no longer being published.
Any existing approved ANG/CE automated forms may be used to track work orders, time
accounting, materials, CWONs, recurring work and other required data, such as scheduling,
emergency work, and all other data as it applies to real property. AF Form 332 is the preferred
method to request and approve work. NOTE: In a contingency environment, Operation
Management is still required to track work orders / service calls, materials, labor and other
required data for either host unit or home unit. During a deployment your unit may not have
access to a LAN system or to an approved automated tracking system and may have to rely on a
paper based system. This is authorized and the data may be placed onto a disk, for reports and
for the host unit to track against the work order.
 12                                                                 ANGI32-1001 14 JUNE 2011


                                            Chapter 5

                                SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS

5.1. Precautionary Measures. Use AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Clearance
Request, or locally developed equivalent form, for any work that may disrupt aircraft or
vehicular traffic flow, base utility services, protection provided by fire or intrusion alarm
systems, or routine activities of the installation. Process the AF Form 103 prior to the start of the
work. If delays are encountered or the conditions at the job site change, the form must be
revalidated and re approved.
5.2. Real Property Similar Equipment. Real property similar equipment (RPSE) is Non-RPIE
structures and equipment deployed or permanently assigned to an installation as facility
substitutes that support major command mission. RPSE is not considered real property, as
accountability will be strictly in the control of the user. Examples are (but not limited to): hush
houses, leased trailers, portable offices, portable shelters, mobile/movable mezzanines, storage
containers, government-owned appliances, Survivable Collective Protective System (SCPS-2 &
SCPS-M), un-interruptible power supply, KMU-450 Chemical Protective System, Tactical
Shelter System, and Chemically Hardened Air Transportable Hospitals. Civil engineering
support for RPSE should be according to a memorandum of understanding with the owning
organization, reimbursable, and subject to labor-hour availability. Emergency repair of unit
owned RPSE may be accomplished by Civil Engineering at the discretion of the BCE, providing
the unit provides all costs for materials and contract labor that owns the RPSE. Recurring
requirements should be addressed and negotiated for contractual support, by the owning
organization. Typically, the utilities that supply RPSE, i.e., water, gas or electrical are real
property and should be maintained by CE. CE is only responsible up to the electrical panel, gas
or water meter, etc.
5.3. Appliances.
   5.3.1. Appliances are not considered RPIE unless installed in Military Family Housing
   (MFH), in such case, the BCE shall ensure that an effective appliance program is developed
   in operations management. ANG currently has no MFH.
   5.3.2. Management of appliances is the responsibility of the owning organization.
   Government-owned appliances include commercial food service equipment in appropriated
   funded facilities, such as, dining facilities and flight kitchens. Budgeting and funding to
   replace commercial food service equipment in appropriated funded facilities is the
   responsibility of the using organization. The using organization is responsible to calibrate
   their equipment annually.
   5.3.3. Emergency repair of unit owned appliances may be accomplished by Civil
   Engineering at the discretion of the BCE, providing the unit that owns the appliance provides
   all costs for materials and contract labor.
ANGI32-1001 14 JUNE 2011                                             13


                           HARRY M. WYATT III, Lieutenant General,
                           USAF
                           Director, Air National Guard
 14                                                           ANGI32-1001 14 JUNE 2011


                                           Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
OSHA 29 CFR 1910, Title 29 – Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration,
Department of Labor
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities
AFI 10-201, Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) Program
AFI 10-211, Civil Engineering Contingency Response Planning
AFI 32-1001, Operations Management
AFI 32-1022, Planning and Programming Real Property of NAF Facility Construction Projects
AFI 32-1032, Planning and Programming Real Property Maintenance Projects Using
Appropriated Funds
AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Prevention and Health
(AFOSH)
ANGPAM 32-1002, Self Help Guide
AFI 32-2001/ANGSUP 1, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program
AFI 91-301/ANGSUP 1, ANG Supplement to Air Force Occupational, and Environmental
Safety, Fire
Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACES—Automated Civil Engineer System
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
CE—Civil Engineer
CIP—Construction In Progress
CWON—Collection Work Order Number
FM—Facility Maintenance
FO—Facility Operations
MILCON—Military Construction Project
MCP—Military Construction Program
MFH—Military Family Housing
Prime (BEEF)—Prime (Base Engineer Emergency Force)
RAC—Risk Assessment Code
ANGI32-1001 14 JUNE 2011                                                       15


RED HORSE—Rapid Engineer Deployable Heavy Operation Repair Squadron Engineer
RPAO—Real Property Accounting Officer
RPIE—Real Property Installed Equipment
RPSE—Real Property Similar Equipment
RWP—Recurring Work Program
SRM—Sustainment Restoration & Modernization
SCPS—Survivable Collective Protective Systems VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
 16                                                          ANGI32-1001 14 JUNE 2011


                                   Attachment 2
               RESERVED COLLECTION WORK ORDER NUMBERS

Work Order FY00001.            Bench or shop stock issues.
Work Order FY00002.            Base service store issues.
Work Order FY00003.            Bulk delivery items such as sand, gravel, and lumber by actual
                               time accounting (ATA) work centers.
Work Order FY00004.            Issues from base supply individual equipment unit.
Work Order FY00005.            Mobility kits and other Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force
                               (BEEF), Explosive Ordnance Disposal, RED HORSE, Fire
                               Department and Disaster Preparedness (DP) supplies not
                               charged to specific mobility deployment.
Work Order FY00006.            Common-use tools maintained in a tool issue center.
Work Order FY00007.            Tool kits obtained from base supply.
Work Order FY00008.            Individual tools issued from base supply.
Work Order FY00009.            Equipment authorization inventory data and shop equipment.
Work Order FY00010.            Residual materials.
Work Orders FY00011 - 00040.   Reserved for local use.
