BY ORDER OF THE CHIEF,                               AIR NATIONAL GUARD INSTRUCTION 65-601
NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU                                                                    31 MAY 2005
                                                                     Certified Current 9 December 2013
                                                                                 Financial Management

                                                        AIR NATIONAL GUARD (ANG) RESOURCE
                                                                 MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND
                                                         RESPONSIBILITIES FOR COMMANDERS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: ANG/FMAE (Maj D. McGrath)                             Certified by: ANG/CS (Col S. Wassermann)
Supersedes ANGI 65-601, 31 Aug 2003                                                        Pages: 18
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction identifies responsibilities for financial management in the Air National Guard (ANG). It
implements AFPD 65-6, USAF Budget Policy, and in conjunction with AFI 65-601, Budget Guidance and
Procedures, the annual ANG Financial Guidance All States Policy letter, and the ANG Data Element
Code pamphlet, provides guidance, policy, and procedures pertaining to the performance of budget execu-
tion and financial management responsibilities. It applies to all ANG organizations and activities. Recom-
mended changes to this instruction should be submitted to Financial Analysis Division (ANG/FMA) 1411
Jefferson Davis Highway, Suite 8500, Arlington, Virginia 22202-3231.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document has only minor revisions made.


     1. Under Paragraph 4.4.2.3.1. removed “Micro-based Budget Automated System (MicroBAS)” and
     inserted “Commander’s Resource Integration System (CRIS)”.
     2. Attachment 1, Abbreviations and Acronyms added “CRIS – Commander’s Resource Integrated
     System” and deleted “MicroBAS – Micro-based Budget Automated System”.


1. References, Abbreviations and Acronyms, and Terms. See Attachment 1.

2. ANG Resource Management Policy:
   2.1. Purpose. The ANG Resource Management System (RMS) is established, operated, and main-
   tained for the purpose of achieving mission accomplishment within available resources. Commanders
   are responsible for the process.
   2.2. Objective. The specific objective is to promote financial and resource management participation
   at appropriate levels of management in order to maximize operating effectiveness and efficiency. Par-
2                                                                            ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005


    ticipation requires the involvement of personnel, from senior commanders down to operating manag-
    ers, at the level where significant resources are consumed. This formal process incorporates resource
    determination, justification, allocation, and utilization.
    2.3. Responsibilities:
       2.3.1. The State Adjutant General is responsible for implementing ANG policies and directives.
       This includes providing state policy guidance to Air Commanders and ensuring that necessary
       reviews and approvals are conducted and applied throughout the financial management process.
       2.3.2. United States Property and Fiscal Officer (USPFO). The USPFO is appointed by the Chief,
       National Guard Bureau (CNGB), under the authority of 32 United States Code (USC) 708 in an
       active duty tour (Title 10 USC 12301(d)). The USPFO will receive and account for all funds and
       property of the United States in the possession of the National Guard of a specified state or terri-
       tory, and must ensure that federal funds are obligated and expended in conformance with applica-
       ble statutes and regulations. The USPFO advises and assists the units, organizations, and activities
       within the state to ensure federal funds are used in accordance with (IAW) applicable Air Force
       directives as implemented by the CNGB. The USPFO may appoint and delegate authority to the
       Financial Manager as an Assistant USPFO (fiscal) for executing financial programs at base level.
       The Assistant USPFO (fiscal) provides technical assistance and advice to the Air Commander and
       his staff on the proper use of federal funds, budget call, and obligation plans. Once an individual is
       appointed as an Assistant USPFO, a dual responsibility is established. This individual is responsi-
       ble to the commander, through his or her technician and military relationships, and to the USPFO
       when functioning within the authority delegated by the USPFO.
       2.3.3. Commander. Resource management is an inherent responsibility of the commander. Each
       commander is responsible for the productive, prudent, and lawful use of all allocated resources
       IAW public law, established directives, and provided guidance. Each commander ensures a bal-
       anced annual distribution of resources that adequately provides for both the operational and sup-
       port missions. The commander’s active support and participation in all phases of resource
       management is essential for program success and can be achieved by inquiring about program
       conditions, reviewing causes, weighing alternatives, and directing action. The commander fulfills
       the basic resource management responsibilities as chairperson of the unit Financial Management
       Board (FMB).
       2.3.4. Financial Manager. Each Financial Manager is the principal financial advisor to the com-
       mander, group commanders, and other senior-level personnel for those units supported by the
       Operating Budget Account Number (OBAN). The Financial Manager ensures effective and eco-
       nomical application of financial resources to accomplish the mission, and also administers all fed-
       eral funds allocated to the OBAN.
       2.3.5. Budget Analysts. The primary role of budget analysts is to estimate the cost of ANG pro-
       grams, develop budget estimates and financial policies, guide and direct budget justification, and
       aide commanders in the orderly administration of all appropriated funds available to the ANG.
       Budget analysts will provide technical assistance to the RCM, Resource Advisor (RA), other staff
       officials and tenant units. Budget analysts will disseminate financial management policy decisions
       and procedural guidance to appropriate management personnel.
    2.4. ANG Policies for Commanders:
ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005                                                                                  3


      2.4.1. Program Balance. The distribution of resources must represent an equitable level of fund-
      ing for all mission related responsibilities.
      2.4.2. Management Control. The commander has the prerogative within the context of participa-
      tive management to determine the most efficient use of resources to accomplish the assigned mis-
      sions.
      2.4.3. Flexibility. Commanders may exercise flexibility in the allocation of resources to meet
      local program priorities. The exercise of this flexibility must be consistent with mission responsi-
      bilities, legal and administrative limitations, current directives, and ANG guidance.
      2.4.4. Priority Use of Funds. Appropriated funds will be applied to approved requirements on a
      priority basis.
      2.4.5. Operating Effectiveness. Actual needs and expected benefits must be fully examined in
      terms of cost, utility of operations, and available alternatives. Managers at all levels share the
      responsibility for resources, which they either directly or indirectly control.
      2.4.6. Planning and Coordination. The commander and staff ensure all matters with present or
      future financial and resource implication are fully coordinated with the Financial Manager.

3. Concept of Operation:
   3.1. Financial Planning. Financial planning is the basic prerequisite for successful resource manage-
   ment. The financial plans (FinPlan) for each unit must reflect total requirements. Each unit’s spending
   plan must be flexible enough to cover the lack of required program funds due to ANG level of funding
   and priorities.
   3.2. Financial Programming. Resources will be programmed to each unit to the fullest extent possible.
   Annual and quarterly targets will be distributed to the Responsibility Center (RC) level where the
   resources are managed IAW the ANG Data Element Code listing.
   3.3. Program Execution. All personnel charged with executing approved programs, who directly or
   indirectly cause the expenditure of appropriated funds, do so within the context of an approved and
   funded program. Budget execution requires full knowledge of the annual spending plan to include;
   annual program, current expenditures, available resources, and unit priorities.
   3.4. Funds Control. Local management controls will be established to: preclude the unauthorized
   expenditure of appropriated funds; ensure funding floors are achieved and ceilings are not exceeded;
   and ensure compliance with administrative and legal limitations.
   3.5. Priority Strategies. Financial programs will be developed and executed within approved priori-
   ties. Priorities should be developed on the basis of contribution to the overall mission accomplish-
   ment. As a general rule, all priority one requirements should be funded before considering priority two
   requirements. Priorities will be established IAW the following general guidance.
      3.5.1. Priority One. Minimum essential requirements are: the continuance of minimally accept-
      able primary mission operations; “must pay“ expenses associated with contractual agreements,
      public law, and/or other irrevocable arrangements; the minimum essential health and safety
      requirements; and the minimum essential requirements for the protection of government
      resources.
4                                                                             ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005


       3.5.2. Priority Two. These priorities are other operating requirements. These are all other mission
       and mission support requirements not identified as minimum mission essential.

4. Resource Management System (RMS). The objective of the RMS is for managers to effectively use
resources, to measure actual performance compared to planned performance, and to use financial plans
(FinPlans) and accounting data to enhance management control at each organizational level. This is
accomplished by assigning financial management responsibilities to those managers who plan, direct,
coordinate, and control work activities of their organizations. These managers identify, acquire, and con-
sume resources in the performance of the unit mission. The RMS provides a way to establish priorities,
choose policies, acquire resources, and act to get the desired results at an acceptable cost. The active par-
ticipation of these managers in all phases of the resource management process is essential for success. The
RC is the main focal point for organizational resource management. All personnel within the RMS Sys-
tem must have a thorough understanding and comply with DoD 7000.14-R, Financial Management Reg-
ulation, Vol 14, Administrative Control of Funds and Antideficiency Act Violations.
    4.1. Financial Structure. The budget office will establish a local directive to pinpoint formal financial
    management responsibilities. It will develop and revise, as required, with assistance of other staff
    offices and the accounting activity, the Responsibility Center/Cost Center (RC/CC) structure required
    to administer the operating budget to maintain integrity of reporting.
    4.2. Responsibility Center Management. RCs represent an organizational subdivision of an operating
    activity. They are the focal point for managerial control of subordinate RCs and/or CC, and function
    as a reporting level for financial accounting. Each unit commander implements the unit RC structure
    IAW the ANG Data Element Code pamphlet to ensure that responsibility for resource management is
    clearly assigned within all subordinate organizations. All unit activities fall within a hierarchy of RCs.
    They are established on the basis of unit mission, span of control, and significance of resource con-
    sumption. Major functional areas, as locally defined, are operations, logistics, and support. RC Man-
    agers (RCMs) for major RCs are designated as FMB members. RCs subordinate to major RCs are
    established, as required, to fix program responsibilities and manage operating budget development
    and execution. A group commander is termed the RCM of a designated major RC. The RCM plans,
    directs, and coordinates the resource management activities of subordinate RC/CCs. The RCM has
    formal resource management responsibility for the entire RC. Specific responsibilities include; budget
    development, budget execution, and RMS administration.
       4.2.1. Budget development responsibilities include reviewing resource requirements developed
       by subordinate activities, ensuring that such requirements are complete, accurate, valid, fully jus-
       tified, and conform with command and local priorities. The RCM integrates requirements into a
       FinPlan for the entire RC. The RCM approves final inputs to FinPlans and ensures such submis-
       sions comply with appropriate instructions, directives, and established suspenses. In addition, he
       or she defends and justifies RC budget before the Commander’s review authorities.
       4.2.2. Budget execution responsibilities include determining distribution of initial annual pro-
       gram and subsequent adjustments. The RCM analyzes the plans and performance (targets and
       obligations) of subordinate organizations at least monthly, to identify imbalances in resource dis-
       tribution. Analysis will be performed to identify causes of overages or shortages. The RCM
       should review alternative actions and balance programs within available funding. In addition, the
       RCM develops and maintains a priority listing of unfunded requirements. The RCM should be
       prepared to brief RC status and requirements at financial management committee meetings.
ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005                                                                               5


     4.2.3. Under RMS Administration, the RCM appoints a resource advisor (RA) IAW paragraph
     4.3. below. The RCM reviews appointments, performance, and training status of RAs including
     their alternates and Cost Center Managers (CCM). The RCM ensures all financial matters are
     coordinated with the RA.
  4.3. Resource Advisor. RAs are formally appointed by each RCM in writing. An information copy of
  the appointment letter should be sent to the supporting base financial management office. The Alter-
  nate Resource Advisor (ARA) is appointed in the same manner and with the same criteria as the RA.
  The ARA assists the primary RA and assumes financial duties during the absence of the primary.
     4.3.1. The following criteria will be used in selecting the RA and the ARA:
         4.3.1.1. Broad working knowledge of the organization.
         4.3.1.2. Knowledge of the accounting, procurement, and supply systems.
         4.3.1.3. Grade, organization position, and the ability to communicate successfully with per-
         sonnel in subordinate, lateral, and higher organizations.
         4.3.1.4. Mature judgment, usually resulting from experience.
         4.3.1.5. Accessibility to the RCM.
         4.3.1.6. Ability to absorb RA responsibilities along with primary duties. (Note: Financial
         Management personnel will not be appointed as RAs.)
         4.3.1.7. Be able to fulfill their resource management duties for at least two year.
  4.4. RA Responsibilities. RAs are the primary points of contact with financial management personnel
  and other RAs on resource management matters within their specific RC. RA responsibilities include:
  budget development, budget execution, and RMS administration.
     4.4.1. Budget Development. Budget development requires knowledge of the organization’s fiscal
     requirements. The RA must understand the relationship between output and costs and help prepare
     estimates for resources. He/she consolidates funding requirements of subordinate RC/CCs and
     briefs the RCM on proposed budgets for approval.
     4.4.2. Budget Execution. Budget execution includes assisting in developing obligation and
     expense targets; providing planning, surveillance, coordination, and control of RC finances; mon-
     itoring the expenditure of funds in day-to-day (RC/CC) operations; briefing RCM on the RC
     financial program; advising the budget analyst of any changes in the submitted requirements; and
     assisting the financial management office during fiscal year-end closeout.
         4.4.2.1. When developing the annual program the following applies:
             4.4.2.1.1. Ensure essential operating requirements are fully financed within the annual
             program.
             4.4.2.1.2. Develop a prioritized listing of unfunded requirements and submit to the budget
             office as required.
         4.4.2.2. To control RC finances apply the following:
             4.4.2.2.1. Review and approve AF Form 9, Request for Purchase, and AF Form 4009,
             Government Purchase Card Fund Cite Authorization. Ensure correct element of expense
6                                                                          ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005


               investment code (EEIC) and RC/CC codes are used. Verify purposes and determine if pro-
               gram amounts are adequate.
               4.4.2.2.2. Review temporary duty (TDY) orders to ensure trips are within guidelines and
               limitations provided by ANG and local FMB.
               4.4.2.2.3. Monitor annual contracts and delivery orders to ensure proper posting of
               charges.
               4.4.2.2.4. Establish and document within management control plan, internal controls
               applicable to all personnel who may initiate expenditure of RC funds.
               4.4.2.2.5. Develop quarterly targets and review program status.
               4.4.2.2.6. Understand and interpret management reports and recommend necessary man-
               agement action to the RC or CCM.
           4.4.2.3. Monitoring the expenditure of funds include:
               4.4.2.3.1. Receiving and analyzing unit level financial data through available system
               resources (e.g., Commander’s Resource Integrated System (CRIS), and Maintaining, Pre-
               paring and Producing Executive Reports (MAPPER)). Provide financial data to RCMs/
               CCMs, as applicable.
               4.4.2.3.2. Analyzing planned and actual expenditures identifying and explaining devia-
               tions from approved programs.
               4.4.2.3.3. Identifying resource imbalances (shortages and overages) and recommending
               appropriate action to the RCM.
               4.4.2.3.4. Reprogramming funds internally, with RCM approval, to resolve imbalances
               and funding problems.
               4.4.2.3.5. Briefing RCM on the RC financial program to include annual program status,
               unfunded requirements, actual and potential funding problems, and recommended repro-
               gramming actions.
               4.4.2.3.6. Briefing RC status and requirements, as necessary, at the Financial Working
               Group (FWG).
       4.4.3. RMS Administration. RAs administer resource management system requirements for the
       RC by:
           4.4.3.1. Establishing and maintaining a file of directives required for managing RC resources
           (see Attachment 1).
           4.4.3.2. Maintain continuity folders (see Attachment 2).
           4.4.3.3. Developing written instructions detailing unit operating procedures (e.g., processing
           TDY orders, ordering supplies and equipment, local purchase procedures, etc.).
           4.4.3.4. Ensuring that the ARA and CCM are sufficiently trained.
    4.5. Cost Center Manager. Each RC may be subdivided into smaller organizational units identified as
    CCs. The CC is the basic production organization and represents the level at which costs are incurred
ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005                                                                                    7


   and accumulated. The supervisor or functional manager responsible for the day-to-day operations of
   the CC are designated CCMs.
       4.5.1. CCM responsibilities include:
           4.5.1.1. Budget Development. Develops requirements and justification for budgets and Fin-
           Plans, directed by the RA.
           4.5.1.2. Budget Execution. The CCM will monitor expenditures and fund status to ensure
           quarterly fund targets are not exceeded. He/she will advise RA of changes in mission require-
           ments. Responsibility includes ensuring that the proper account custodian reviews all
           due-outs. The CCM will also ensure that quantities of requisitioned items satisfy mission
           requirements.

5. Financial Management Committees. Participatory financial management is a corporate organiza-
tional approach that combines efforts of the commander and supporting staff. It is the most effective, effi-
cient way to set priorities or to reduce, defer, or eliminate programs. To provide collective resource
management action, each base-level organization must establish and maintain a financial management
structure, consisting of a FMB and a FWG. Small organizations, where the FMB and FWG composition
would essentially be the same, may form a single committee. (Approval from ANG/FMA is required.)
This structure gives line managers flexibility in determining how organizational resources are to be
applied for mission accomplishment, while recognizing the technical and support responsibilities of staff
managers. It affords the means by which organizations compete for resources on the basis of individual
program merit and degree of contribution toward overall mission objectives.
   5.1. Financial Management Board.
       5.1.1. Membership. FMB composition includes top-level managers with the membership tailored
       to the type of the organizational structure involved. The chairperson will formally designate vot-
       ing FMB members and non-voting advisors by position in writing. This letter will be filed in the
       financial management office. Voting membership must ensure balanced representation from each
       directorate and major tenants within the base structure. Typical membership is indicated in Figure
       1. The chairperson may appoint additional members/advisors as required based upon local man-
       agement needs. While not voting members, technical advisors may enhance the FMB deci-
       sion-making process by providing specific impact information and program detail. The following
       examples are provided: base civil engineer, communications representatives, budget analyst, chief
       of supply, contracting officer, and medical technician.
8                                                                         ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005


Figure 1. Typical FMB Membership


Staff                                                   Position
Commander                                               Chairperson (see Note 1)
Vice Commander                                          Member
Logistics Group Commander                               Member
Operations Group Commander                              Member
Support Group Commander                                 Member
ANG Tenant Commander                                    Member (see Note 2)
ANG Tenant Operations Group Commander                   Member (See Note 2)
ANG Tenant Logistics Group Commander                    Member (See Note 2)
Other Major ANG Unit Technicians/Commanders             Members (See Note 3)
Financial Manager                                       Advisor
Budget Analyst                                          Advisor/Recorder

NOTES:
1. The commander must designate the alternate chairperson in a letter to the Financial Manager.
2. Multi-flying unit bases.
3. For example; geographically separated units.

       5.1.2. Responsibilities. Responsibilities of members:
          5.1.2.1. The chairperson will ensure:
              5.1.2.1.1. All FMB and member responsibilities are carried out.
              5.1.2.1.2. In addition, he/she will provide final approval or disapproval for all financial
              and resource management activities and programs.
              5.1.2.1.3. Any reprogramming action taken between RCMs must be briefed at the next
              FMB meeting.
              5.1.2.1.4. During the third quarter the Financial Manager should get formal FMB approval
              to move annual authority during the last fiscal quarter between RCs IAW the unit
              end-of-year spending plan.
          5.1.2.2. Each FMB member will:
              5.1.2.2.1. Discuss and defend requirements, cost estimates, and justification for operating
              budget submissions for their area of responsibility.
              5.1.2.2.2. Be prepared to discuss specific current program, reasons for over and under exe-
              cution, resource imbalances, excess funding, reprogramming impacts, and unfunded
              requirements.
ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005                                                                                9


            5.1.2.2.3. Review and approve the distribution of quarterly and annual targets. Review
            requirements for approved programs and activities to ensure balanced financial support
            throughout.
        5.1.2.3. The recorder responsibilities include:
            5.1.2.3.1. Preparing meeting agenda to ensure all necessary topics are presented and
            pre-briefing key members on major issues prior to the meeting as deemed necessary.
            5.1.2.3.2. Briefing the FMB on the Status of Funds.
            5.1.2.3.3. Presenting FWG recommendations to the FMB for review and action.
            5.1.2.3.4. Advising the FMB on ANG/USAF policies pertaining to funds management, as
            required.
            5.1.2.3.5. Preparing written minutes of each meeting IAW this instruction.
            5.1.2.3.6. Ensuring implementation of FMB approved decisions and policies.
     5.1.3. Meetings. Meetings are regularly held at least once each fiscal quarter. Financial data will
     vary according to local needs and wants. Suggested agenda items include the following:
        5.1.3.1. Review and approve the distribution of annual operating budget authority (OBA).
            5.1.3.1.1. Ensure funds are issued on a priority basis.
            5.1.3.1.2. Ensure annual programs are both valid and adequate to meet mission responsi-
            bilities.
            5.1.3.1.3. Approve all annual reprogramming actions between major RCs.
            5.1.3.1.4. As appropriate, ensure that a current listing of unfunded requirements is estab-
            lished and maintained in approved priority sequence for each category of funding.
        5.1.3.2. Review the status of appropriated funds to analyze execution of the annual program.
            5.1.3.2.1. Operation and Maintenance (O&M) programs are reviewed IAW locally deter-
            mined formats, such as commodity within RC/CC.
            5.1.3.2.2. O&M reimbursement programs are reviewed.
            5.1.3.2.3. Base procured investment equipment programs are reviewed by line item in pri-
            ority sequence.
            5.1.3.2.4. All other programs are reviewed as deemed necessary by the chairperson.
        5.1.3.3. Review any significant financial guidance and policies provided by ANG/FMA, such
        as general and specific guidance accompanying initial funding; budget call instructions, Bud-
        get Execution Reviews (BER), fiscal year-end reporting, specific commodity guidance, legal
        limitations, etc.
        5.1.3.4. Review and approve base FinPlans prior to submission to ANG/FMA.
        5.1.3.5. Address all other issues pertaining to the financial condition of the unit as deemed
        necessary by the chairperson.
     5.1.4. Meeting minutes. Written minutes for each FMB meeting will be prepared in the format
     shown in Attachment 3. FMB minutes will be signed by the recorder, approved by the com-
10                                                                          ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005


        mander, and filed in the base financial management office. The base Financial Manager will pro-
        vide a copy of the minutes to all FMB members within a reasonable timeframe (normally within
        15 days). In addition, a copy of FMB minutes will be forwarded to the USPFO.
     5.2. Financial Working Group. The FWG manages commodities and resources integral to the operat-
     ing activities of the base or units.
        5.2.1. Membership. The FWG will be chaired by the budget analyst and is composed of RAs and
        technical advisors as locally determined by the chairperson. Each applicable RCM will formally
        designate their FWG member and advisor by position in writing. Letters will be filed in the base
        financial management office. Suggested membership is listed in Figure 2. The chairperson may
        decide on additional voting members and non-voting advisors based on local management needs.

Figure 2. Typical FWG Membership


Staff                                                Position
Budget Analyst                                       Chairperson
RA for Operations                                    Member
RA for Logistics                                     Member
RA for Maintenance                                   Member
RA for Recruiting                                    Member
RA for Medical                                       Member
RA for Civil Engineering                             Member
RA for Communication Flight                          Member
RA for Security Police                               Member
RA for Mission Support Flight                        Member
RA for Services Flight                               Member
RA for State Headquarters                            Member
RA for Geographically Separated Unit (GSU)           Member

        5.2.2. Responsibilities. Responsibilities of members:
            5.2.2.1. The chairperson will ensure all FWG and member responsibilities are carried out. In
            addition, he/she will inform FWG members of actions approved/disapproved or directed by
            the FMB.
            5.2.2.2. Each FWG member will:
               5.2.2.2.1. Identify, compute, estimate, justify, and defend their financial requirements.
               5.2.2.2.2. Review current and forecasted obligations to ensure that annual and quarterly
               programs are adequate and valid. Recommend reprogramming or other management
               action to the FMB when needed.
               5.2.2.2.3. Brief respective RCM on the matters to be presented, discussed, and recom-
               mended by the FWG to prepare the member for the FMB meeting.
ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005                                                                                   11


      5.2.3. Meetings. Regular meetings will be held at least once each fiscal quarter. Suggested agenda
      items include:
          5.2.3.1. Develop initial and subsequent distribution of annual OBA.
              5.2.3.1.1. Ensure funds are applied on a priority basis to overall mission requirements.
              5.2.3.1.2. Review annual programs for validity and adequacy.
              5.2.3.1.3. Recommend annual reprogramming actions.
              5.2.3.1.4. As appropriate, develop a current listing of unfunded requirements and recom-
              mend to the FMB a priority sequence for each category of funding.
          5.2.3.2. Review the status of appropriated funds to analyze execution of the annual program.
              5.2.3.2.1. O&M programs are reviewed IAW locally determined formats such as com-
              modity within RC/CC.
              5.2.3.2.2. O&M reimbursement programs are reviewed.
              5.2.3.2.3. All other programs are reviewed as deemed necessary by the chairperson to sup-
              port FMB requirements.
          5.2.3.3. Review any significant financial guidance or policies provided by ANG/USAF, such
          as general and specific guidance accompanying initial funding; budget call instruction; fiscal
          year-end reporting specific commodity guidance, legal limitations, etc.
          5.2.3.4. Perform RMS continuation training as required.
          5.2.3.5. Address all other issues pertaining to the financial condition of the unit as deemed
          necessary by the chairperson to support the FMB.
      5.2.4. Meeting minutes. Written minutes for each FWG meeting are optional.

6. Resource Management System Training:
   6.1. Personnel directly involved in the RMS must have adequate training to carry out their assigned
   responsibilities. Resource managers need information to develop financial requirements, to monitor
   actual expenses and obligations against targets, and to analyze the resource impact of alternative
   courses of action. Therefore, a systematic training program is essential.
   6.2. Responsibilities:
      6.2.1. The Financial Manager is responsible for RMS Training to financial committee members.
      The budget office conducts initial and continuation training as defined by this instruction.
      6.2.2. The RA is responsible for providing initial and continuation training to CCMs within the
      RC. FM personnel may be requested to assist in this training.
   6.3. Initial Training:
      6.3.1. Initial training must offer an overview of basic ANG financial management policies and an
      understanding of local unique programs and procedures. Newly assigned RCMs, RAs, and CCMs
      must be familiar with their duties and responsibilities. The initial training provides:
          6.3.1.1. An overview of financial processes.
12                                                                           ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005


            6.3.1.2. An understanding of their responsibilities to their organization and the Financial Man-
            ager.
            6.3.1.3. Knowledge of available management reports.
            6.3.1.4. An understanding of the RCMs assigned duties.
            6.3.1.5. An overview of procurement and supply procedures.
        6.3.2. Provide new RCMs with initial RMS training not later than 90 days after assignment of
        financial management responsibility.
            6.3.2.1. Start RAs initial training within 30 days after assignment and complete it within 90
            days after assignment.
        6.3.3. Training should be provided in group classes or one-on-one sessions, and introduce at least
        the following subjects:
            6.3.3.1. RMS functions and responsibilities of the Commander, RCMs, RAs, CCMs, and the
            financial management organization.
            6.3.3.2. Functions and responsibilities of the FMB.
            6.3.3.3. Functions and responsibilities of the FWG.
            6.3.3.4. Formulation of the FinPlan.
            6.3.3.5. Execution of the Plan: OBA, annual and quarterly targets, legal and administrative
            limitations, fiscal year-end closeout procedures, unfunded requirements, and reprogramming
            and rephasing within the OBA.
            6.3.3.6. Management reports from CRIS and MAPPER.
            6.3.3.7. Standard base supply system procedures.
            6.3.3.8. Procedures for local purchases.
        6.3.4. No standard RMS training package exists. There are many vehicles available to assist in
        conducting RMS training. Incorporating the following material will expand and enhance the train-
        ees' comprehension of the RMS.
            6.3.4.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/
            FM) Website (http://www.saffm.hq.af.mil).
            6.3.4.2. ANG Budget Course.
            6.3.4.3. Base-level Supply Customer Course.
     6.4. Continuation Training:
        6.4.1. The Budget Office will design and conduct continuation training for RCM and RAs.
            6.4.1.1. Provide training for maintaining proficiency in using RMS reports and keeping
            abreast of current management policies on effective use of resources.
            6.4.1.2. Frequently hold continuation training, tailored to local needs, to keep resource man-
            agement personnel current on budget and accounting policies, procedures, and instructions.
ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005                                                                                13


     6.4.2. The required training, the number of people, and training environment determines if the
     continuation training is formal (training sessions or FMB/FWG meetings). Informal training is
     casual (training through one-on-one contact or during visits to RCs).
  6.5. Training Records:
     6.5.1. Training records will be established and maintained for each person requiring RMS train-
     ing. The base financial management office maintains the records for initial and continuation train-
     ing provided to financial committee members. RAs maintain records of initial and continuation
     training provided to their CCMs. As a minimum, training records will reflect:
         6.5.1.1. Name.
         6.5.1.2. Resource management position.
         6.5.1.3. Date of assignment.
         6.5.1.4. Date of initial training.
         6.5.1.5. Date and subject of continuation training.
  6.6. Training Record Administration:
     6.6.1. Proper documentation of the RMS training program is essential to ensure complete cover-
     age of necessary information for all personnel requiring training. Keep training records current.
     Record initial and continuation training by person, date of training, length of training period, and
     subjects covered.



                                              DANIEL JAMES III, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              Director, Air National Guard
14                                                                     ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 65-6, Budget
AFI 65-601V1, Budget Guidance Procedures
AFI 65-601V2, Budget Management for Operations
DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 14, Administrative Control of Funds and Antideficiency Act
AFMAN 23-110CD, Air Force Supply Systems Electronic Publishing Library

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ANG—Air National Guard
BER— Budget Execution Reviews
CNGB—Chief, National Guard Bureau
CC—Cost Center
CCM— Cost Center Manager
CRIS—Commander’s Resource Integrated System
EEIC—Element of Expense/Investment Code
FMB—Financial Management Board
FinPlan—Financial Plan
FWG—Financial Working Group
FY—Fiscal Year
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
IAW— In Accordance With
MAPPER—Maintaining, Preparing, and Producing Executive Reports
O&M—Operation and Maintenance
OBAN—Operating Budget Account Number
OBA—Operating Budget Authority
RA—Resource Advisor
RC—Responsibility Center
RC/CC—Responsibility Center/Cost Center
RCM—Responsibility Center Manager
RMS—Resource Management System
ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005                                                                                   15


TDY—Temporary Duty
USPFO— United States Property and Fiscal Officer

Terms
Budget— A formal estimate of future revenues, obligations to be incurred, and expenditures to be made
during a definite period of time, when determined to be appropriate upon the basis of accrued
expenditures and costs to be incurred.
Budget Call— The “Call” announces policies to be observed in the preparation of operating budgets and
financial plans (FinPlan). The Call is directive in nature and subject to amendments as required.
Notification to implement the instruction of the Call, including due dates for submissions and special
instructions, will be issued as required by ANG/FMA.
Budget Estimates— The funds required in future years to finance a certain programmed level of activity.
Budget Execution— The process involved with every echelon in the budgetary administration
subsequent to passage of an appropriation act. It includes such actions as preparation of operating
budgets, apportionments, funding actions, review and approval of operating budgets, fund reporting, and
reports review.
Cost Center (CC)— An organization or unit of activity into which an organization is divided for
purposes of cost accumulation and distribution. CCs are subordinate to RCs and are used to identify and
accumulate cost data that will assist the RA in managing subsidiary units and activities. CCs are identified
by six characters, alpha, or numeric codes.
Cost Center Manager (CCM)— The Financial Manager of a CC. The CCM regulates on a day-to-day
basis, the consumption of workyears, supplies, equipment, and services and the production of things or
performed tasks. These individuals deal with the RA or RC manager on matters pertaining to the financial
management of their particular function.
Element of Expense/Investment Code (EEIC)— EEICs are designed for use in the budget call and
financial data accumulation systems to identify the nature of services and items acquired for immediate
consumption (expense) or capitalization (investments.). Air Force expense/investment elements are
composed of three character numeric codes ranging from 100-999. ANG has expanded many EEICs to
five digits in order to identify specific types of expenses/investments.
Financial Management Board (FMB)— A committee of top-level staff personnel responsible for
approving FinPlans and revisions, distributing the FinPlans to fund managers, establishing priorities of
requirement, and ensuring consistency in programs and missions. This committee has the final approval
authority for distribution of funds received from ANG/FMA.
Financial Plan (FinPlan)— A formal, approved formatted database reflecting how expected financing
will be applied to base funding requirements.
Financial Working Group (FWG)— A committee comprised of the Financial Manager or budget
analyst as chairperson and RAs from staff agencies. The FWG is not a policy-making body; they make
recommendations to the FMB.
Fiscal Year (FY)— The 12-month period from 1 October through 30 September.
Fund Target— Expected or programmed amounts of funds to be consumed in financing a RC or CC
16                                                                           ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005


requirement. Normally, targets are established by EEIC. The sum of all targets must equal the total
operating budget.
Funding— Represents the amount of dollar authority available during the fiscal period.
Obligation— The estimated or actual amount of the cost of an authorized service or article ordered. This
estimate is carried in official accounting records, and reserves funds for the total life of the transaction.
Obligations are subdivided into undelivered orders, accrued expenditures (unpaid), and accrued
expenditures (paid), reflecting the various stages of the transaction.
Operating Budget— Operating estimate used to price the O&M baseline for the program year prior to
developing the program objective memorandum (POM).
Operating Budget Account Number (OBAN)— A four position control code, which is made up of the
Operating Agency Code (ANG is “41”) plus the two-digit (alpha or numeric) allotment serial number.
Operating Budget Authority (OBA)— An official funding account issued to operating agencies for
each appropriation by fund code.
Program— A desired level of activity in a time-based (normally quarterly) sequence.
Reprogramming:— (1) The process of revising an established approved program. (2) Revising the
distribution of funds within or between RCs and CCs.
Resource Advisor (RA)— The RA is an individual appointed by the RCM to monitor the preparation of
estimated requirements and associated justification for inclusion in operating budget and FinPlan
submissions, the development of expense targets and the utilization of resources in day-to-day operations
IAW the approved financial program. The RA serves as the primary POC for financial management
personnel and other RAs on matters pertaining to the preparation and execution of operating budgets and/
or FinPlans for a specific RC.
Responsibility Center (RC)— An organization subdivision of an operating activity. It is the focal point
for managerial control of one or more subordinate CCs and is a level of reporting for financial accounting.
Responsibility Center/Cost Center (RC/CC) Code— A six-digit alphanumeric code.
Responsibility Center Manager (RCM)— The financial management title of the person in charge of an
RC. The RCM is responsible for planning, directing, and coordinating the activities of subordinate units
who, in turn, consume resources in performance of their assigned mission.
ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005                                                                                17


                                            Attachment 2

                      SUGGESTED RA CONTINUITY FOLDER OUTLINE

A2.1. Listed below are suggested items only. Unit level Budget personnel determine the contents of the
folder as local conditions dictate. Acceptable forms of documentation include electronic or written.
   A2.1.1. Table of Contents.
   A2.1.2. Organization chart (all RC/CCs, PFMR, OCCR and shop codes within the RC).
   A2.1.3. List of all CCMs, their alternates, equipment custodians and supply representatives within the
   RC; to include their organization and telephone number.
   A2.1.4. Cost center manager training record.
   A2.1.5. A list of financial management regulations and publications maintained by the RA.
   A2.1.6. Appointment letter for RA and ARA.
   A2.1.7. List of resource management computer products.
   A2.1.8. Listing of points of contact for base resource management personnel (FMB/FWG members,
   stock fund manager, base supply customer service, etc.).
   A2.1.9. Listing of commonly used materiel transaction codes and financial inventory codes.
   A2.1.10. List of commonly used element of expense investment codes (EEIC).
   A2.1.11. Resource Management System Self-inspection Checklist (if available).
   A2.1.12. Budget ”Call” guidance.
   A2.1.13. Copies of current fiscal year operating budget inputs.
   A2.1.14. Financial management briefing material (slides, charts, etc.).
   A2.1.15. Current policy letters and guidance received from the base Budget Office.
   A2.1.16. A current listing of all unfunded and unprogrammed requirements for your RC.
   A2.1.17. FWG and FMB minutes.
18                                                                     ANGI65-601 31 MAY 2005


                                           Attachment 3

            SUGGESTED FORMAT FOR PREPARATION OF FMB/FWG MINUTES
1. DATE:


2. PLACE:


3. TIME:


4. MEMBERS PRESENT: Indicate grade, name, and office symbol. (When a non-member attends as an
alternate for an appointed member, please designate.)


5. MEMBERS ABSENT: Indicate grade, name, and office symbol.


6. OTHER PRESENT: Indicate grade, name, and office symbol.


7. DISCUSSION: Minutes should include an informative recap of all items discussed at the meeting and
copies of applicable briefing charts.


NOTE: FMB minutes will be signed by the recorder and approved by the chairperson. FWG minutes will
be signed by the chairperson.
