       National Guard Regulation 600-12/Air
       National Guard Instruction 36-3009




       Personnel-General




       National Guard
       Family Program




       National Guard Bureau
       Arlington, VA 22204
       4 August 2011



UNCLASSIFIED
SUMMARY of CHANGE
NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009
National Guard Family Program
4 August 2011

o This publication supersedes all previous editions of NGR 600-12/ANGI 211-1,
  has been substantially revised, and must be reviewed completely.
National Guard Bureau                                                            *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009
Arlington, VA 22204
4 August 2011

                                                Personnel-General

                                       National Guard Family Program

                                          By Order of the Secretary of Defense:

                                                      CRAIG R. MCKINLEY
                                                      General, USAF
                                                      Chief, National Guard Bureau

                                                      Official:

                                                      GARY SZABO
                                                      Col USAF
                                                      Chief, Strategy and Policy Division

History. This publication supersedes NGR 600-12/ANGI 211-1, 8 Jan 86, has been substantially revised, and must
be reviewed completely.

Summary. This regulation/instruction implements policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for the
National Guard Family Program (NGB-FP) consistent with references in appendix A.

Applicability. This regulation/instruction applies to the Army National Guard (ARNG) and Air National Guard
(ANG) of the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Territory of Guam, the United States Virgin Islands,
and the District of Columbia, hereafter referred to as States, in conjunction with respective Major Army
Command/Major Command (MACOM/MAJCOM) directives as applicable.

Proponent and exception authority. The proponent of this regulation/instruction is the National Guard Bureau
Family Program NGB-FP. The proponent has the authority to approve exceptions to this regulation/instruction that
are consistent with applicable law and regulation/instructions.

Management control process. This regulation contains internal control provisions and identifies key management
controls that must be evaluated (appendix B).

Supplementation. Supplementation and establishment of forms other than NGB is prohibited without prior
approval from NGB-FP.

Interim Changes. Interim changes to this regulation/instruction are not official unless they are authenticated by the
Chief, Strategy, Plans and Policy Division. Interim changes will be destroyed on their expiration dates unless
sooner superseded or rescinded.

Suggested Improvements. Users are invited to send comments and suggested improvements on DA Form 2028/AF
Form 847 (Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms) directly to NGB-J1-FP, 111 S. George Mason
Drive, Bldg 2, Arlington, VA 22204.

Distribution. A/F


Contents (Listed by chapter and paragraph)




*This publication supersedes NGR 600-12/ANGI 211-1, 8 Jan 86                                                i
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                                            4 August 2011


Chapter 1
Introduction
Purpose • 1-1
References • 1-2
Explanation of abbreviations and terms • 1-3
Mission • 1-4
Structure and organization • 1-5
Policy • 1-6
General prohibitions • 1-7
Privacy information • 1-8
Concept of operation/Core competencies • 1-9

Chapter 2
Responsibilities
National Guard Bureau • 2-1
The Directors of the Army and Air National Guard (ARNG/ANG) • 2-2
National Guard Bureau Family Program Office (NGB-FP) • 2-3
The Adjutants General or Commanding General and the Joint Force Headquarters (TAGs/CG/JFHQ) • 2-4
State Family Program Director (SFPD) • 2-5
Commanders • 2-6
Service members • 2-7

Chapter 3
Mobilization and Deployment
Deployment cycle support • 3-1
Pre-deployment • 3-2
Deployment • 3-3
Post deployment • 3-4
Deployment cycle collaborations • 3-5
Deployment or State contingency operations • 3-6

Chapter 4
Resources
Funding • 4-1
Appropriated Funds (APF) • 4-2
Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) • 4-3
Gifts and donations • 4-4
Safeguarding resources • 4-5

Chapter 5
Volunteers
Volunteer authorization • 5-1
Volunteer restrictions • 5-2
Statutory volunteers • 5-3
Gratuitous volunteers • 5-4
Family Readiness Groups/Key Volunteers Team • 5-5
Family Readiness Groups/Key Volunteers Roles and Functions • 5-6
Volunteer resource • 5-7
Government vehicles • 5-8
Childcare • 5-9
Commercial sponsorship • 5-10
Official information • 5-11




ii
4 August 2011                                                        *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009


Chapter 6
Child and Youth Program
State Child and Youth Program staff • 6-1
Mission • 6-2
Goals • 6-3
Purpose • 6-4
Operating requirements • 6-5
Staffing requirements • 6-6
Program staff and statutory volunteer requirements • 6-7
Staff outreach • 6-8
Core program elements • 6-9
Child care • 6-10
Funding • 6-11
Invitational Travel Orders (ITOs) for Youth • 6-12
Government vehicles • 6-13
Compliance • 6-14

Chapter 7
Army National Guard Family Program
Family Readiness Support Assistant (FRSA) • 7-1
Family Assistance Centers (FACs) • 7-2

Chapter 8
Air National Guard Family Program
Concept of Operations • 8-1
Responsibilities and authorities • 8-2
Airman & Family Readiness Program Managers (A&FRPMs) • 8-3
Core competencies • 8-4
Non-duplication • 8-5
Privacy information • 8-6
Resources and data management • 8-7
Forms • 8-8

Appendixes

A. References
B. Management Control Evaluation Process

Figure List

1-5: Core Components of State Family Program with Command Relationship

Glossary




                                                                                           iii
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                         4 August 2011




                           This page intentionally left blank.




iv
4 August 2011                                                                 *NGR 600-12/ ANGI 36-3009


Chapter 1
Introduction

1-1. Purpose
    a. This regulation implements policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for the NGB-FP and the
States.
    b. The National Guard Family Program (NGB-FP) gives national recognition and support to the necessary
partnership between the National Guard (NG), its Service members, Families, and the challenges associated with
full time and traditional military duties. This partnership is crucial and mutually beneficial to both State and Federal
missions.
    c. This regulation will assist the Adjutant General (TAG) or Commanding General (CG) in establishing a State
Family Program (SFP) which functions with regard to service specific culture and mission requirements. The SFP
shall provide efficient and effective services and resources to Service members and their Families to support
readiness and retention.
    d. The NGB-FP will promote understanding between Families and NG leadership. This program will emphasize
Family involvement as a partnership with the unit, foster a sense of well-being, strengthen a sense of community
with shared benefits and responsibilities to empower Families and provide the tools necessary to succeed.
    f. This regulation directs collecting and maintaining information subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by
Title 5, USC §552a(5 USC 552a), AR 340-21 and AFI 33-332.

1-2. References
Required and related publications and prescribed and referenced forms are listed in appendix A.

1-3. Explanation of abbreviations and terms
Abbreviations and special terms used in this regulation are explained in the glossary.

1-4. Mission
The NGB-FP promotes self-reliance and resiliency in Service members, their Families and volunteers by preparing,
assisting and supporting their Service member for the obligations of local, State, and Federal military service.

1-5. Structure and organization
     a. For purposes of this regulation, NGB-FP is defined as the Joint, ANG, and ARNG FP staffs. The SFP is
defined as all assets within the State, Territory or District of Columbia to include Joint Force Headquarters (JFHQ),
ANG, and ARNG Family Program (FP) staffs.
    b. The SFP belongs to TAG and will be structured to meet the needs of the State. (See figure 1-5).
     c. Each of the States, Territories, and the District of Columbia has a State Family Program Director (SFPD) who
is accountable to the TAG for the execution and success of a SFP. Through collaboration, coordination and
communication, the SFPD will synchronize all SFP assets to ensure efficiency and program/mission success.
     d. Due to the complexity of running the SFP, at a minimum each State should have a SFPD, Family Assistance
Center (FAC) Coordinator/FAC Specialist(s), Family Readiness Assistant (FRA), State Youth Coordinator, Budget
Technician, Family Readiness Support Assistant (FRSA) (Brigade), and Airman & Family Readiness Program
Manager (A&FRPM) (Wing). Where staffing permits, the State should appoint a Deputy SFPD and either the SFPD
or Deputy SFPD is a non-dual status Federal Technician for continuity of the SFP.




                                                                                                              1
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                                                       4 August 2011




Figure 1-5. Core Components of State Family Program with Command Relationship. (The actual lines of
supervision are at the discretion of TAG.)

        e. Core components of a SFP include: Family Readiness, Family Assistance, Child and Youth Program,
support assistance, and direct support to the ARNG and ANG.
     (1) Family Readiness provides training and mentorship to commanders, senior enlisted, and Family Readiness
Group (FRG)/Key Volunteer Team (KVT) in regard to the implementation and sustainment of the Family Readiness
Program within their respective units.
     (2) Family Assistance provides information, resources and referral services (Financial, Legal, TRICARE,
Defense Eligibility Enrollment and Reporting Systems (DEERS) / ID Cards, Crisis Intervention, Community
Outreach) to Service members and their Families that arise as a result of military service.
     (3) Child and Youth Program: implements and facilitates training/readiness programs for military youth. It also
provides child and youth referral and resources to Service members and Families to reduce the challenges that arise
from military service.
     (4) Support Assistance augments the existing FP to provide a continuum of support and services based on
Service member and Family strengths, needs and available resources. The primary focus of support is Families who
are geographically dispersed from a military installation. Services are delivered in local communities through
collaborative partnerships with federal, state and local resources such as Joint Family Support Assistance Program
(JFSAP), Inter-service Family Assistance Committee (ISFAC), and other related programs.
     (5) Direct support provides ARNG and ANG Commanders with Family Readiness subject matter experts
(A&FRPM and FRSA) to execute the FP at the unit level.
     f. States will initiate and/or participate in an ISFAC and actively participate to share State and regional
resources and reduce duplication of effort. States are encouraged to meet quarterly with the ISFAC.
     g. The FP is a commander’s program. All commanders must understand the importance of self-reliant Family
members and how they impact readiness, safety, morale, recruiting and retention.
     h. FP facilities will be easily identifiable and when possible within close proximity to other support agencies.
Consideration should allow for easy accessibility, with parking immediately adjacent to the facility. Facility
furnishings must be durable, comfortable, attractive and consistent with a warm, inviting environment. Private office
space is required, along with computers, telephone, facsimile, and internet connectivity. The space should be
adequate for a standard size desk, chair, visitor seating, locking filing cabinets, book shelves, floor-to-ceiling walls
and closable doors. Adequate storage and supply areas are necessary.




2
4 August 2011                                                                 *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009


     i. Each unit in the State (Army and Air) is required to designate a FP liaison/military point of contact for
military Families, Service members and the chain of command.
     j. At the unit, the FRG/KVT, with guidance and direction from the SFP staff, is the essential base component of
the FP and includes Service members, their Families, and the community.
        1. The FRG/KVT leader serves the Commander and FP in an advisory and support capacity.
        2. Volunteers are the key to the FP and provide information, mutual, social and emotional support.

1-6. Policy
    a. It is NGB policy that Families are informed about the important NG role in national security, State, and local
emergencies. Education will be provided to Families about benefits, entitlements and the procedures for obtaining
them. Programs are established to build resilient military Families and assist in the resolution of issues and needs.
    b. Each of the States will develop and implement a SFP.
    c. The FP will assist commanders in their responsibility for the health, welfare and readiness of NG Families.
    d. The FP is an integral part of the Service member deployment cycle support and collaborates in the Yellow
Ribbon Reintegration Program (YRRP).
    e. Programs are established to build resilient military Families and assist in the resolution of issues and needs.
    f. NG Service members are made aware of their responsibility to prepare their Families for military life.
    g. Use of volunteers will be in accordance with (IAW) 10 USC 1588 chapter 8.

1-7. General prohibitions
The FP shall be free of discrimination based on race, color, national origin, religious or political preference or
affiliation, gender, age, handicap or Service affiliation. All uniformed Service members and retired uniformed
service personnel and their Family members, active, reserve, veterans, retired or civilian employees and surviving
Family members of military personnel are eligible for assistance. The NGB-FP will provide the appropriate
reasonable accommodations to all employees and persons receiving services in accordance with federal standards.
The NGB-FP will provide reasonable accommodations in coordination with the Equal Employment Opportunity
(EEO) program manager for persons with individual disabilities, and will ensure facilities are accessible. Family
members who believe that they have been subjected to discrimination will be encouraged to establish contact with
the office of TAG, social actions officers, or equal opportunity recourse under NGR 600-21, NGR 600-22/ANGI 36-
3 and AFI 36-2706.

1-8. Privacy information
     a. All information obtained from individuals must be appropriately safeguarded to protect an individual’s
privacy. Disclosure of any records must comply with AR 340-21 and AFI 33-332. However, certain instances
governed by regulation/instructions and statutes require reporting to appropriate authorities. Release of any personal
information must be requested by an appropriate agency/individual “FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY” (FOUO) and the
request/release of information must be documented in writing. Prior to obtaining information, FP staff must inform
clients that information may be released under limited circumstances.
     b. Statutory volunteers may have access to Privacy Act information that can be found in DoD 5400.11-R
(reference (c)) provides for the disclosure of privacy protected records to agency employees who need the records in
the performance of their duties. Access to records contained in a Privacy Act system of records may be provided to a
statutory volunteer of a Department of Defense (DoD) Component other than non appropriated fund
instrumentalities. Any statutory volunteer with such access must comply with the protection, disclosure, disclosure
accounting, and other requirements of reference (c).

1-9. Concept of operation/ Core competencies
     a. The FP shall provide consultation services to commanders and assist them in developing and executing
policies, programs, and processes which enhance individual, Family and community readiness.
     b. Support mission readiness by assisting Service members and their Families in adapting to the changes and
demands of military life through education, information and assistance to include various programs focused on
building resilient military Families. The FP prepares information and provides on-going education and assistance via
newsletters, bulletin boards, direct mail, e-mail or activities.
     c. Assist DoD military and civilian personnel, other eligible uniformed members, military retirees, their Family
members and survivors (reference DoDI 1342.22).
     d. Ensure commanders include the FP as a requirement of all Service members in-and-out processing.




                                                                                                            3
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                                                    4 August 2011


     e. Ensure Service members and their Families are prepared for the many demands and responsibilities often
associated with activation, mobilization, deployment and demobilization.
     f. Collaborate with local agencies, uniformed services, and other service delivery agencies to enhance the
quality of life initiatives during steady State and contingency operations in cooperation with the YRRP.
Organizations may include Community Action Information Board (CAIB), Integrated Delivery System (IDS),
Community Action Council (CAC), and ISFAC, or similar organizations on or off military installations to enhance
the lives of Service members and their Families.
     g. The FP staff (volunteers, contractors, civilian employees, Active Guard and Reserve (AGR), and technicians)
will not assume responsibility for services and programs which fall within the scope of other agencies.
     h. Services will focus on: individual and Family Readiness, proactive outreach, community readiness,
resilience, and commander consultation and support. In conjunction with the unit designated Family Readiness
point of contact (POC), the FP personnel will consult with the unit to routinely assess Family Readiness, strengths,
resources and concerns. The SFP staff will evaluate trends and gaps in services for policy, planning and
coordination purposes.
     i. The FP will ensure the development and establishment of procedures to contact and follow up monthly
(minimum) with families of deployed unit members.
     j. Service delivery will be provided based on assessed need.
     k. Provide assistance and support to Service members, families and leadership during all national, state, and
local missions, emergencies and disaster response evacuations. The FP will be prepared to support emergency
Family Assistance operations within their State. Upon implementation of the comprehensive emergency
management plan the commander activates an Emergency Family Assistance Control Center (E-FACC) to serve as
the focal point for victim and Family Assistance services.
     l. Identify Service members and their Families’ needs, determine appropriate assistance utilizing military and
community resources, and follow up to ensure needs are addressed.
     m. Provide immediate, short term intervention and referral to appropriate agency or military service to assist
Service members and Families facing crisis situations.


Chapter 2
Responsibilities

2-1. National Guard Bureau (NGB)
The NGB shall:
     a. Operate and resource a FP which serves both ARNG and ANG members and their Families.
     b. Serve as the primary POC among the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the ARNG and ANG
Directorates, and TAGs.
     c. Establish and maintain an interdependent collaboration with other service components to further develop and
refine policies to reflect the needs of Service members and their Families.
     d. Whenever possible, coordinate, consult and partner with Federal Government and national public profit and
non-profit entities to maximize the opportunities for necessary support services to be provided to Service members
and their Families.
     e. Coordinate and synchronize national level service support providers: FP, YRRP, Employer Support of the
Guard and Reserve (ESGR), Psychological Health providers, Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC),
Suicide Prevention Program Manager (SPPM), Survivor Outreach Services (SOS), and Transition Assistance
Advisor (TAA).
     f. Work with OSD, and all military Service Secretaries, in conjunction with the ARNG/ANG Directorates, to
help develop standards for the FP which reflect the needs of all Service members and their Families.
     g. Encourage lines of communication among the TAGs to ensure top-level input and support of the FP, to
promote active solicitation of the needs of NG personnel and their Families, and to ensure the most effective
implementation of the FP.

2-2. The Directors of the Army and Air National Guard (ARNG/ANG)
     a. Resource the FP to ensure TAGs can implement their FP in their respective States.
     b. Ensure FP is mandatory for Service members and that they receive appropriate pay and allowance for their
participation.
     c. Assist States in meeting recommended minimum standards for FPs; research/outline minimum standards.


4
4 August 2011                                                                 *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009


     d. Budget for appropriate funding, for Service members and their Families, to participate in FP events and
activities.
     e. Budget as necessary for the costs associated with conducting activities and events under the FP to include
providing invitational travel orders for Family members, as appropriate.
     f. Provide Joint Force Headquarters (JFHQ) whether State, Territory or the District of Columbia with
information on Army and Air Force (AF) programs geared toward helping Families which complement the FP and
assist with coordination of activities.
     g. Establish a process of communication and work in coordination with the Service Reserve components in the
execution of the FP at the state level whenever appropriate. Reserve components should coordinate events and
services to ensure all Service members and their Families receive the appropriate deployment cycle support.
     h. Work in concert with the other Services to coordinate events and services to support all Service members and
Families to include those which are geographically dispersed whenever possible.
     i. Coordinate with the NGB-FP office to develop a tailored FP to meet any special needs of personnel and
Family members.
     j. Coordinate between services with input from the NGB-FP office to make full use of the ARNG/ANG FP,
funding streams to best resource States for their respective FP.
     k. Where appropriate ANG and ARNG Directorates should coordinate NGB-FP resources with the OSD Joint
Family Resource Center.
     l. Collaborate with the NGB-FP Office on FP service updates to ensure the issuance of guidance and
instructions.
     m. Send their FP representatives to monthly, or as needed, planning and coordination meetings called by the
NGB-FP Office to provide input, receive informational updates, discuss issues and initiatives, solidify
implementation, and share best practices.
     n. Conduct annual and quarterly performance evaluation assessments of FP implementation within their
components, to include, but not limited to, Service member and Family satisfaction and service. The Directors shall
provide to the NGB-FP office all performance assessments.

2-3. The National Guard Bureau Family Program Office (NGB-FP)
The NGB-FP shall:
     a. Assist the Chief of NGB-FP with policy development in coordination with ARNG/ANG FP staff. When
policy is of a joint nature, it will be signed by the Directors of the ARNG/ANG as well as the Director of the Joint
Staff (DJS) and Chief, National Guard Bureau (CNGB). When policy guidance is specific to a military service, the
policy guidance will be signed by the Director of the ARNG/ANG or their designee, and a copy will be provided to
the NGB-FP Office. ARNG/ANG unique resources will be allocated by the appropriate Director. Allocation in
support of the JFHQ will be accomplished by the NGB-FP staff and coordinated with the ARNG/ANG FP Office.
     b. Be the primary point of responsibility for joint policy, resource allocation and guidance for the FP. The
ARNG/ANG information, directives and resources will be disseminated to the State FP by NGB-FP.
     c. Ensure compliance with DoD, Army and AF policies and procedures.
     d. Provide broad policy, plans and program guidance to the States, in order to outline and administer an
effective and efficient program.
     e. Ensure both the ARNG and ANG are included in DoD Total Force Family Readiness (TFFR) planning and
implementation to include policies, guidance, technical assistance, consultation, and resources to support the NGB-
FP development.
     f. Approve exceptions to the NGB-FP regulatory requirements.
     g. Ensure both ARNG and ANG FP personnel routinely interface with Active Components (AC) seeking
inclusion in training, policy and applicable directives.
     h. Establish a process of continuous submission, integration and analysis of data and reporting of observations
on the NGB-FP. The office will disseminate best practices, lessons learned, and funding status, as appropriate, to the
CNGB, the Directors of the ARNG/ANG, the DJS, TAGs, JFHQ, and SFPDs.
     i. In consultation with DoD, and the ARNG/ANG Directorates, develop and oversee a single training program
both on-line and classroom, for NG personnel responsible for implementing the FP.
     j. At a minimum, conduct quarterly planning and coordination meetings with the ARNG/ANG FP
representatives (G1/A1) to receive input, implementation practices, and share best practices.
     k. The Chief, NGB-FP will conduct quarterly meetings with the NGB-FP Advisory Council to receive input,
discuss new initiatives, implementation and share best practices.
     l. Collaborate with the ARNG/ANG Directorates and State personnel when issuing updated FP policy guidance.


                                                                                                           5
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                                                      4 August 2011


    m. Provide annual funding guidance to each State.

2-4. The Adjutant General (TAG) or Commanding General (CG) and Joint Force Headquarters (JFHQ)
The TAG or CG and JFHQ shall:
    a. Implement a FP within their respective State.
     b. Implement a comprehensive FP which supports the needs of both the ARNG and ANG.
     c. Ensure a SFPD is selected.
     d. Ensure appropriate oversight of fiscal, manpower, facilities and program standards.
     e. Provide command support.
     f. Ensure the SFP is informed and included in the activation, mobilization or deployment of
units/individuals/personnel in the State (Territory or District of Columbia).

2-5. State Family Program Director (SFPD)
The SFPM shall:
     a. Serve as the State advisor to TAG on Family Readiness, quality of life, and other FP matters and as the policy
advisor in the development and implementation of work /life services and activities for the NGB-FP programs.
     b. Develop, direct, manage, implement, coordinate, and evaluate the human service delivery system to ensure
FP elements and support services are provided to military and Family members, including any Family of deployed
military personnel regardless of service or components.
     c. Initiate, develop, prepare and implement policy and guidance on assigned programs. Interprets and adapts
guidance, regulation/instructions, and policies from higher headquarters in a wide variety of outside situations,
tailoring it to the specific and unique needs of the respective States.
     d. Facilitate and provide direction of the SFP through coordination, communication and collaboration with all
family support personnel within the SFP, other Service components, and local, state, and national level support
organizations.
     e. Ensure the effectiveness of providing Family Assistance to all military Service members, veterans and
Families, regardless of the status in the deployment cycle.
     f. Ensure Service members and their Families receive an annual FP briefing which includes information on pay,
benefits, entitlements, and a current listing of applicable toll free phone numbers (e.g. Family Assistance Centers
(FACs), national/local community resources, Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve, health benefits, and the
American Red Cross, etc).
     g. As directed by TAG in coordination with the United States Property Fiscal Office (USPFO), oversee the
budget aspects for the SFP, forecasts, procures and executes Army appropriated/non-appropriated funds for the FP,
youth program, volunteer reimbursement, contracting and, may execute AF appropriated funds. Provide guidance on
locally generated funds and corporate sponsorship. Provide guidance and training for commanders and FRG
Leadership on the FRG informal fund. Ensure full utilization of funds and compliance with all regulatory guidelines.
     h. Ensure Invitational Travel Authorizations (ITA)/Invitational Travel Orders (ITO) are used appropriately for
non military participants to support official FP activities and events.
     i. Collaborate, network and participate with inter/intra-service and civilian agencies to provide adequate
resources to all Service members and Families.
     j. Establish/promote programs to assist in the resolution of issues which may or may not be a result of military
service, such as: YRRP, TAA, ESGR, SARC, Health and Psychological Health and other OSD and DoD programs.
     k. Ensure implementation of all volunteer management requirements to include award recognition program,
volunteer hour tracking and training.
     l. Assess military Family quality of life issues and direct recommendations to improve well-being.
     m. Implement and promote a joint Child and Youth Program utilizing available resources.
     n. Implement and promote a community outreach program throughout the state.
     o. Develop a marketing plan to increase Service member and Family awareness of all available programs.
     p. Ensure liaison/coordination between the Family Program Office, unit commanders, local military, and
government and civilian agencies.
     q. Ensure and maintain current list of resource POCs and volunteers.
     r. Develop a resource management plan to maximize support of service delivery.
     s. Provide information, assistance, training, referral and follow-up services for the military Family as requested
throughout the entire deployment cycle.
     t. Oversee the management of volunteer recruitment, training and support.




6
4 August 2011                                                                 *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009


     u. Identify, assess and brief the TAG on the SFP for military Family issues, trends, needs, program priorities
and program effectiveness.
     v. Identify and assist Service members and their Families’ needs, determine appropriate assistance utilizing
military and community resources, and follow up to ensure needs are addressed.
     w. Ensure development and maintenance of a community resource guide.
     x. Ensure the SFP provides consultation to commanders and assists them in developing and executing, policies,
programs, and processes which enhance individual, Family, and community readiness for newcomer orientation,
mobilization, pre-deployment, reunion/reintegration, and de-mobilization as required.
     y. Promote SFP and services to Senior Enlisted Groups (SEG), Officers Association (OA) and other applicable
forums and serve as FP advisor.
     z. Ensure ongoing Family readiness training for Commanders, Senior Enlisted Leaders, First Sergeants, unit
leaders, Service members and FRG/KVT members.
     aa. Develop, test and implement plans for state/regional/national catastrophic events in coordination with local,
military and community agencies.
     ab. Ensure effectiveness of briefing and activities IAW NGB Guidance in collaboration with State YRRP as
directed by TAG.
     ac. Ensure the effectiveness of the Joint Family Support and Assistance Program (JFSAP) in meeting the needs
of Service members and their Families.
     ad. Ensure that FP events and activities are conducted in a timely manner, in geographically centric locations
and as often as possible to ensure maximum participation by Service members and their Families.


2-6. Commanders
Commanders shall:
      a. Ensure military Family Readiness and preparedness through the support of FP missions, goals and objectives.
Consult with FP personnel, to support quality of life, readiness, retention, and to meet the Guard’s obligation to
military Families.
      b. The FRG/KVT is a unit commander’s program. Normally FRGs/KVTs will be established at the
company/squadron level, with battalion and brigade/wing levels playing an important advisory role. Commanders
will provide program vision and guidance to their respective FRGs/KVTs. The FRG/KVT is not a morale, welfare,
and recreation program; a private organization; or a nonprofit organization.
      c. Designate a FP liaison/military POC for military Families, unit members and the chain of command and
require that they are formally trained by the SFP.
      d. Ensure all unit members are aware of their responsibility to prepare their Families for military life.
      e. Encourage Service members and Family participation in activities sponsored by the FP.
      f. Ensure a minimum of one Family Readiness information briefing for unit members and their Families
annually.
      g. Appoint in writing, a statutory volunteer or group of statutory volunteers to implement an active volunteer
program. Provide the appropriate logistical and command support needed for the volunteers to carry out their
mission within the unit.
      h. Ensure Statutory volunteers understand their roles and responsibilities and that they sign DD form 2793,
(Volunteer Agreement for Appropriated Funds Activity and Non-Appropriated Funds Instrumentalities ) and they
are formally trained by the State Family Program Office (SFPO).
      i. Ensure volunteer activity funds are properly accounted for and government owned property is safeguarded at
all times.
      j. Ensure applicable Service members are compliant with Family Care Plans.
      k. Ensure mobilization, pre-deployment, deployment, reunion/reintegration and post mobilization briefings are
conducted for military Families. It is the Commander’s responsibility to ensure accountability for each deploying
and redeploying Service Member in the YRRP.
      l. Participate and ensure Senior Enlisted (Command Sergeant Major (CSM), Command Chief Master Sergeant
(CCMsgt), and First Sergeant) attend FP training.

2-7. Service Members
Service Members shall:
    a. Ensure the command is informed of any changes in their Family status, to include current military Family
contact information.


                                                                                                            7
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                                                    4 August 2011


    b. Ensure the appropriate mobilization/deployment documents and required emergency data are updated in their
personnel file.
    c. Prepare a Family Care Plan as required.
    d. Prepare their Family for deployment and encourage Family members’ attendance at information briefings.
Service members are responsible for their Families’ readiness.
    e. Provide their Family with Family Program contact information, key unit personnel information, phone
numbers, and locations.
    f. Ensure qualifying Family members attend YRRP.
    g. Self identify all exceptional Family members/special needs IAW the Exceptional Family Member Program
(EFMP), AR 608-75 and AFI 40-301.


Chapter 3
Mobilization and Deployment

3-1. Deployment cycle support
Family Assistance and support services will be provided to uniformed Service members, Families and emergency-
essential civilians in support of military operations-deployment or mobilization (includes casualties, evacuation,
natural disasters and acts of terror)—to increase readiness and enhance unit cohesion. Preplanning for Family
Assistance will ensure that a comprehensive, realistic, effective and coordinated assistance delivery system is in
place prior to military operations. This structure will normally include SFP personnel, FRGs/KVTs, and unit rear
detachments or Military POCs.
    a. Additional deployment resources and processes, including DoD YRRP, may augment but not replace service
specific FP deliverables.
    b. Ongoing contact with military Families using a variety of communication methods during all phases of the
deployment cycle is essential.
    c. Provide assistance and support to Service members, Families and their command during mobilization and
deployments.


3-2. Pre-Deployment
Pre-deployment will include Family Readiness and support to unit commanders in establishing FRGs/KVTs caring
for Families.
     a. The FP will initiate Family Readiness, and Pre-deployment tasks and training, as early in the pre-deployment
cycle as possible.
     b. Pre-deployment tasks and training may include: assess unit level Family Readiness Program, review and
update Family data sheets and phone trees, conduct training and assistance for unit level statutory volunteers,
coordination with YRRP, etc.

3-3. Deployment
Deployment support will focus on ensuring Family Readiness assistance while also supporting the execution of the
unit Family Readiness Program.
     a. The FP will continue Family Readiness support and conduct deployment tasks and training in coordination
with YRRP.
     (1) Deployment tasks and training may include to:
          a. Ensure the establishment of a toll-free number to address Family issues and crises.
          b. Provide assistance to FRGs/KVTs.
          c. Assist casualty assistance officers in providing support to survivors.
          d. Conduct 100% monthly outreach and provide support to waiting Families.
          e. Provide Family assistance to the Families.
          f. Assist commanders in providing ongoing training for designated FRG/KVT.
          g. Assist Families in identifying resources for relocating.
          h. Provide additional support for Families with special needs.
          i. Keep commanders informed of major trends affecting Families and Service members while maintaining
confidentiality.
          j. Compile and maintain statistics on assistance rendered.


8
4 August 2011                                                                  *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009


    (2) Conduct reunion and reintegration training for Families prior to the post deployment phase.

3-4. Post deployment
Post deployment support will focus on reconnecting Service members with their Families as well as providing
information and access to resources which will facilitate a successful reintegration in conjunction with the YRRP.
     a. The FP will maintain Family readiness support and conduct post-deployment tasks and training in
coordination with YRRP.
     b. Post deployment tasks and training may include: briefings, work groups to deal with Family reunification
problems, command after action reports, and Family/youth centered events (includes lessons learned and
recommendations for improving procedures).

3-5. Deployment cycle collaborations
The FP will collaborate with the YRRP to provide events and activities in all phases of the deployment cycle, to
include but not limited to, pre-deployment, deployment, demobilization and post-deployment, reconstitution,
reintegration phases to Service members and their Families. Service members preparing and planning for
mobilization and/or deployment or full-time operational duty, (other than for training) for 90 consecutive days or
more; for ARNG and 90 cumulative days within a fiscal year (FY) for ANG Members, shall participate. Families
may include spouse, children, parents, grandparent, siblings, and/or significant others. These persons should be
encouraged to attend events and activities.

3-6. Deployment or State contingency operations
     a. Upon request of TAG, the FP will staff and/or initiate a 24-hour Family Assistance Center (FAC) operation.
The center may include representatives from the following offices: identification cards, DEERS, TRICARE, finance,
and Staff Judge Advocate (SJA).
     b. A Family Assistance emergency plan will be developed to address all levels and phases of deployment or
mobilization. The plan will include requirements for continued coordination of Family Assistance services and
establishment of FACs through SFP Resources. The plan will incorporate into state contingency plans and include
at a minimum the type of Family Assistance services offered to Families. Minimum services will include emergency
financial assistance, emergency food and shelter, crisis intervention, legal information, DEERS, military medical
benefits briefing, information, and referrals to appropriate sources for other assistance. An emergency FAC and
other agency roles and responsibilities for implementing the plan will also be included. Prior coordination of
resource requirements is recommended with an annual review. It is recommended that this plan should be an annex
to each State’s emergency plan.


Chapter 4
Resources

4-1. Funding
     a. The FP has three basic sources of funding: appropriated, non-appropriated, gifts and donations. Since the
ARNG and ANG have separate comptrollers, the process by which these funds are obtained and expended may
differ. The FP Office will manage service specific appropriated funds. All funds will be monitored, expended and
reported IAW applicable Army, AF and NGB regulation/instructions and guidance. Volunteers and contractors
cannot obligate federal funds. The State USPFO or Wing comptroller can answer specific questions and conduct
audits as appropriate.
     b. The Army Management Structure Code (AMSCO)/Air Force Element of Expense Identification Code (EEIC)
narrative developed by NGB-FP dictates those expenditures which are valid. The expenses may include:
invitational travel, staff/ volunteer development, local costs, contract services, program support, informational items,
staff travel, prescribed recognition events and approved statutory volunteer reimbursement.

4-2. Appropriated Funds (APF)
Appropriated funds are those funds appropriated by Congress in the annual budget process and are distributed by
NGB. Procurement of low value promotional items, such as pens, pencils, magnets, key chains and similar items are
authorized for the express intent of awareness and education of eligible customers.




                                                                                                             9
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                                                      4 August 2011


4-3. Non-appropriated Funds (NAF)
These funds are utilized for reimbursement of official volunteer expenses, and for volunteer recognition programs
such as awards, banquets or mementos. Statutory volunteers must have a current DD Form 2793 on file in order to
receive reimbursement. Authority for use of and accountability for non appropriated funds (NAF) is IAW AR 215-
1/AFI 34-201. These funds may not be commingled with any other funds. Unlike appropriated funds, NAFs left at
the end of the fiscal year are not withdrawn.

4-4. Gifts and donations
Gifts and donations may be accepted by the FP when voluntarily offered by private individuals or groups under the
provisions of AR 215-1 and AFI 51-601.

4-5. Safeguarding Resources
     a. All commanders, personnel and volunteers have an inherent responsibility to ensure all resources are
safeguarded against waste, loss, unauthorized use and misappropriation.
     b. All documentation and records must be reviewed and maintained IAW Federal, State and local
regulation/instructions.


Chapter 5
Volunteers

5-1. Volunteer authorization
Use of volunteers to assist with the SFP will be IAW Title 10 U.S.C. §1588.

5-2. Volunteer restrictions
Volunteers will not perform duties for which there is an unfilled manpower requirement or for which funding has
been provided to hire staff or obtain services by contract.

5-3. Statutory volunteers
     a. Statutory volunteers are those volunteers who serve in an official capacity and seek credit for their volunteer
hours in direct support of the FP. A clear description of the duties and scope of responsibility of each volunteer
position must be provided.
     b. Volunteer orientation and training will be provided by the SFP to familiarize volunteers with the
organization, their duties, the procedures to document hours of voluntary services provided, documentation of types
of services provided and policies and procedures for obtaining reimbursement of incidental expenses.
     c. Volunteers are not to be placed or to serve in a policy making position. They may not receive compensation
for their services. They are not authorized to expend government funds or enter into contracts.
     d. Volunteers may be reimbursed for incidental expenses. Detailed guidance is provided in Joint Federal Travel
Regulation (JFTR).
     e. Statutory volunteers may be placed on an Invitational Travel Authorization (ITA)/Invitational Travel Order
(ITO) when they are acting in a capacity which is related directly to, or in conjunction with, their job description.
Detailed guidance regarding ITAs/ITOs is found in the JFTR.
     f. Statutory volunteers, while providing authorized services, are considered to be employees of the Government
only when acting within the scope of the services accepted. As such they may be entitled to damages or losses for
loss of property, personal injury, or death.
     g. A volunteer may require a background record check because of the nature of their work.
     h. Child and youth volunteers have additional requirements; refer to section 6-7 of this regulation for guidance.
     i. To avoid any violation of the Joint Ethics Regulation, a volunteer serving in a decision making role for a
Private Organization cannot simultaneously serve as a statutory volunteer for the FP.
    j. Military members, and contract personnel working within the SFP or YRRP, may not be statutory volunteers
or placed on ITAs/ITOs IAW JFTR. See appendix E.

5-4. Gratuitous volunteers
    a. Gratuitous volunteers are volunteers who offer to help support meetings, events, and activities without any
expectation of compensation and who do not wish to serve in an official capacity. Gratuitous volunteers are not
covered by Title 10 U.S.C. §1588 and are not afforded the benefits of statutory volunteers.


10
4 August 2011                                                                *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009


     b. Gratuitous volunteers do not require a formal job description. An example of gratuitous or “just in time”
volunteers are those who volunteer to set up, tear down, or clean a room in support of a FP function or event.
     c. Volunteers for Private Organizations are not volunteers for the NGB-FP. As such, they are subject to the
policies and procedures for the private organization they represent. These volunteers will be treated as outlined in
DoDI 1000.15, AR 210-22, and AFI 34-223. Some examples of Private Organizations are the Salvation Army (SA),
Veterans Service Organizations (VSO), Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), American Legion, American Veterans
(AMVETS), etc.

5-5. Family Readiness Group (FRG)/Key Volunteer Team (KVT)
     a. A FRG/KVT is a command-sponsored organization of Service members, civilian employees, Family
members (immediate and extended) and volunteers belonging to a unit. These organizations will provide mutual
support and assistance, and a network of communications among the Family members, the chain of command, and
community resources. FRGs/KVTs, with guidance from the SFP staff, will assist unit commanders in meeting
military and personal deployment preparedness and enhance the Family Readiness of the unit’s Service members
and Families. They will also provide feedback to the command on the state of the “Family” unit.
     b. Family Readiness is the mutual reinforcement and support provided by the unit to Service members, civilian
employees, and Family members, both immediate and extended.
     c. The rear detachment commander/military POC is the unit commander’s representative at home station while
the unit is deployed and may be the Family liaison to the deployed unit. All logistic support for the FRG/KVT (e.g.
meeting rooms, office equipment/computers, newsletters, telephones, and volunteer support) is authorized by the
rear detachment commander/military POC during deployment.
     d. Unit commanders will ensure that their FRG/KVT include all Service members, civilians, and Family
members regardless of rank structure or Family size, composition, language spoken, and other demographics.
Volunteer leaders must create a balanced and representational organization. The FP will serve in a support role.

5-6. Family Readiness Group (FRG)/Key Volunteer Team (KVT) Roles and Functions
     a. With guidance from the SFP staff, the FRG/KVT mission is to act as an extension of the unit in providing
official, accurate command information. Mutual support between the command and the organization’s membership
is necessary. The unit will advocate more efficient use of available community resources and strive to help Families
solve problems at the lowest level. Continuity is important for all volunteer groups which will position the
FRGs/KVTs for success during high intensity surges.
     b. Indicators of successful Family Readiness Programs in non deployed units may include the following: a
commander, a unit Family Readiness Liaison and a FRG/KVT all who have attended Family Readiness sponsored
training plus an annually updated phone tree.
     c. When structuring FRG/KVT activities, unit demographics, deployments, and mission should be considered.
     d. FRG/KVT is an official military program. The FRG activities and appropriated fund expenditures are subject
to DoDD 5500.7–R, DoDD 7000.14–R, 31 USC 5311, and all other applicable statutory and regulatory restraints on
official activities, use of appropriated funds, and fundraising.
     e. Certain FRG/KVT activities are essential and common to all. They include staff and committee meetings,
publication and distribution of newsletters, maintenance of updated Family rosters and Family readiness
information, establishment of telephone trees and e-mail distribution lists and scheduling educational briefings for
family members. Volunteer activity level can vary depending on unit mission and on whether the unit is in pre or
post deployment, deployed, or in a training/sustainment period at the home station.
     f. FRG/KVT social activities can enhance Family and Service member camaraderie, provide stress relief, and
reduce Family loneliness during deployments. Social activities will not be funded using appropriated funds. The
FRG/KVT members may use money contained in an informal fund to pay for social activities.

5-7. Volunteer resources
     a. The FRG/KVT mission-essential activities are supported using the unit’s appropriated funds.
     b. Volunteers may use government office space, computer and office equipment, faxes, e-mails, scanners, and
such to support their mission.
     c. Paper and printing. The FRG/KVT may use government paper and printing supplies to publish volunteer
newsletters to relay information from the command and to support any volunteer activity. Commanders will decide
how frequently newsletters will be published. Each unit will have a standard operating procedure (SOP) on the
preparation, printing, and distribution of newsletters. Newsletters may be distributed by mail or via e-mail to
military Families and volunteers.


                                                                                                        11
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                                                      4 August 2011


     d. FRG/KVT are authorized to use official mail for official, mission related purposes and as approved by the
unit commander.
     (1) Unofficial information may be included in an official newsletter, provided: it does not exceed 20 percent of
the printed space used for official information; it does not increase printing and mailing costs to the government; and
it does not include personal wanted/for sale advertisements. The newsletter must state whether it contains only
official information or both official and unofficial information.
     (2) If the newsletter contains both types of information, it will include the following statement: “The inclusion
of some unofficial information in this newsletter has not increased the costs to the government, IAW DoD 4525.8–
M.”

5-8. Government vehicles
IAW AR 58–1and AFI 24-301, the unit commander may authorize government vehicle use in support of official
volunteer activities, including the transportation of volunteers for volunteer mission-related activities. Government
vehicles may be used to support official activities when the appropriate commander determines the use of the
vehicle is for official purposes and failure to provide such support would have an adverse effect on the mission. The
driver must have a valid and current driver’s license to operate the vehicle and all other regulatory requirements
regarding the use of the government vehicle will be followed. The use of the vehicle must be provided without
detriment to the accomplishment of the unit’s mission. State and local policies change frequently and should be
consulted.

5-9. Childcare
Depending on availability of funds, unit commanders may authorize appropriated or non appropriated funds for
needed family support functions, including child care, education, and other youth services for uniformed Service
members who are assigned to duty or ordered to active duty in conjunction with contingency operations (see 10
U.S.C. §1788(b), DoDD 1342.17, and DoDI 1342.22.

5-10. Commercial sponsorship
The FRG may not enter into commercial sponsorship agreements. Commercial sponsorship is an agreed upon
arrangement under which a business provides assistance, funding, goods, equipment, or services in exchange for
public recognition or other promotional opportunities on the installation. IAW AR 215–1, AFI 34-108 and DoDI
1015.10, commercial sponsorship is generally only authorized for official Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR)
programs and events.


5-11. Official information
Official FRG information refers to command and mission-essential information which the commander believes
Families need to be better informed. Official information relates to unit mission and readiness. It includes training
schedule information, upcoming deployments, unit POCs, and the chain of concern. Official information is subject
to all applicable regulation/instructions governing its use and to guidance in AR 25-55 and 5 U.S.C. 552(b).


Chapter 6
Child and Youth Program

6-1. Child and Youth Program Staff
The Child and Youth Program staff will be, at a minimum, the State Child and Youth Program Coordinator. Under
the direction of the SFPD will:
     a. Provide information and resources relative to National Guard Child and Youth Program (NG CYP) major
functions:
        (1) Community based child care
        (2) Youth development
        (3) Student support
        (4) Community-capacity building
     b. Support readiness and resilience of geographically dispersed Families of the ARNG as an operational reserve
by reducing the conflict between parental responsibilities and mission requirements through age-appropriate youth
programming within the program core elements.


12
4 August 2011                                                                  *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009


     c. Strive to meet the developmental needs of NG youth, support the parent/caregiver during deployment, and
provide peace of mind to the Soldiers/Airmen while they are separated from their loved ones through an accessible,
well-rounded program.
     d. Utilize and market the Joint Staff Services portal (http://www.jointservicessupport.org/FP/Youth.aspx ),
which contains helpful information for parents and youth regarding available resources and program activities.
     e. Actively participate as the NG representative to the Operation Military Kids (OMK) State Team, providing
relevant input to OMK resource utilization and OMK Team support. Reporting on direct support utilizing OMK
core program elements will be made through the appropriate OMK Project Director/Military Liaison.
     f. Provide Youth Program support and expertise, in coordination with the YRRP, to ensure quality youth
programming during applicable Yellow Ribbon events.

6-2. Mission
The mission of the NG CYP is to promote and sustain the quality of life and resilience of NG children and youth by
providing secure, timely, flexible, high-quality support services and enrichment programs. NG CYP provides
supervision during out of school hours for NG children and youth and support prevention initiatives that mitigate
youth violence, gang activities, substance abuse and other at-risk behaviors. Programs also support school
transitions and provide support services. The NG CYP fulfils this mission by addressing the child care, youth
development and school support needs through National, State/Territory and community based programs executed
through the JFHQ Program Office and the NG CYP.

6-3. Goals
The NG CYP meets the following goals:
   a. Education: To help provide life-skills education to the children and youth of the NG, their caregivers and
community supporters.
    b. Access: To help provide equal access to Federal and State benefits that support children and families,
counseling, education, child care and other resources needed to foster a healthy, stable and secure environment.
   c. Opportunity: To create opportunities for participation in programs, events, and activities available across the
spectrum of government, community and the private sector, geared towards the behavioral health, physical health
and welfare of children and youth.
   d. Communication: To build a sense of belonging to the NG community by creating secure opportunities to
network with other youth, parents and youth program facilitators in one’s community, state and across the nation.
   e. Resilience: To infuse resilience standards into all NG children and youth programs.
   f. Outreach: To build and sustain contact with parents and children of the NG in order to create awareness of
available support services and programs while being mindful of age, location, military and civilian mindsets.

6-4. Purpose
The Child and Youth Program (CYP) is available for school age eligible dependants of ARNG and ANG service
members ages six to eighteen years, and offers a range of positive activities designed to promote resiliency, healthy
development, and to ease transition to adulthood. When possible, programs may be established for parents to
participate with their under school age (0-five) children. The CYP will encompass a variety of safe, supervised
activities which:
     a. Ensure military youth are better able to manage their lives throughout the deployment cycle by fostering
resiliency skills.
     b. Offer youth opportunities to build life skills and feel competent in both competitive and noncompetitive
situations.
     c. Empower youth to contribute to their community.
     d. Foster the development of life skills and avocations.
     e. Foster the development of technological aptitude and competence.
     f. Instill values associated with the pursuit of sports and recreational activities, particularly self-discipline,
perseverance, and decision making.
     g. Enhance or reinforce educational learning opportunities for children and youth through individual and group
activities.
     h. Foster the development of leadership, sportsmanship, and teamwork skills.
     i. Educate youth about risk taking behaviors and positive decision making.
     j. Provide a variety of opportunities for parental and command involvement within the youth program.




                                                                                                            13
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                                                       4 August 2011


    k. Collaborate with school personnel to identify military youth who are having adjustment issues and make
necessary referrals.
    l. Promote positive attitudes and reinforce basic core values.
    m. Ensure the implementation of youth specific events and activities in the DoD YRRP IAW NGB guidance
with coordination with the State YRRP.
    n. Ensure child and youth programs are based on the needs and interests of all members of the youth community
regardless of gender, abilities, and financial resources and regardless of service affiliation.
    o. Educate school and community personnel on the emotional cycle of deployment for military child and youth.
    p. Collaborate with governmental and non-governmental youth resource personnel to identify military youth
who are having adjustment issues and make necessary referrals.

6-5. Operating requirements
The NG CYP targets youth in three program groups: Child Development Services (CDS) (0-5 yrs); School Aged
Services (6-10 yrs); and Youth Services (11-18 yrs). For programming purposes, activities are organized to meet the
“age appropriate” needs of the following groups or comparable local school grade breakouts: Grades one through
three; four through five; six through nine; and ten through twelve. Program activities targeting each of the program
groups will be conducted in separate activity spaces/rooms.
    a. Programs offered within CDS may be conducted only if the parent is present and participating with the child.
Baby-sitting type services are not offered within the NG CYP and must be conducted by state-licensed child care
providers. Outside of child care during qualifying YRRP events, any child care arrangements will be outside of the
official NG CYP and be considered FRG/Unit sponsored.
     b. School Aged Services (SAS) and Youth Services (YS) programs which encourage flexibility and choice will
be locally determined based on youth interests, Family needs, community circumstances, and available funding.
Youth programs must show a balance of activities.
   c. Age-appropriate activities and support services are offered in four service delivery areas:

       (1)   Art, Recreation & Leisure.
       (2)   Sports, Fitness & Health.
       (3)   Life Skills, Citizenship & Leadership.
       (4)   Academic Support, Mentoring & Intervention

6-6. Staffing requirements
     a. Youth shall be supervised at all times by a combination of paid employees and adult volunteers. IAW Federal
guidelines (DODI 6060.4), an adult to youth ratio is recommended for all youth programs, regardless of location.
Teen volunteers may supplement, but not substitute for, adult employees or volunteers.
     b. Ratios will be, at a minimum 1:15 for all SAS and YS program events. Ratios for CDS support, when
authorized, will meet state child care guidelines or be 1:6 where guidelines do not exist.
     c. Overnight training events will follow the American Camping Association adult-to-youth ratios and use adult
employees/contractors to meet the ratios. Teen volunteers may supplement, but not substitute for, adult employees.
     d. Adult employees/contractors will staff instructional classes according to professionally accepted practice,
with additional consideration given to the ages and skill levels of the participants and the type of instruction being
provided.
     e. A minimum of a 1:6 adult-to-youth ratio (DODI 6060.4) is maintained for all high-risk activities (that is,
where greater than normal risk might result because of the unpredictable nature of the activity itself) in order to
ensure the safety and well being of participants. High-risk activities include, but are not limited to, dances, lock in,
trips and tours, swimming, rappelling, white water rafting, and high rope activities.

6-7. Program staff and statutory volunteer requirements
     a. All youth programs shall be professionally managed; volunteer or paid staff member must be available during
youth programs or activities, regardless of the location. Minimum staffing will be two persons, even if 15 or fewer
children are in attendance.
     b. All staff members, contracted instructors, and regularly scheduled volunteers will be screened IAW DoDI
1402.5, AR 215-3, AR 608-10, Air Force Policy Directive 34-8, AFI 34-249, and NGB local policies and
regulation/instructions.
     c. Staff, conditionally appointed, will be subject to completion of local pre-employment background checks, and
line of sight supervision (LOSS) must be in place. Employment will be contingent on favorable Criminal


14
4 August 2011                                                               *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009


Investigation Division (CID), National Agency Check, or National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI),
and State Criminal History Repository (SCHR) inquiries. The NACI plus the SCHR Check equates to the Child
Care National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (CNACI). The JFHQ personnel office will initiate and fund
background checks for contracted Child and Youth staff and regularly scheduled statutory volunteers with
appropriated funds (DODI 1402.5, appendix 6).
   d. Child and Youth Program volunteers are specified FP volunteers IAW AR 608-1. Specified, statutory Child
and Youth Program volunteers must sign a DA Form 4162 and be subject to CNACI. Regularly scheduled
volunteers must complete these checks in order to independently supervise children under the age of 18 years during
program activities above the unit level. Any volunteers who have not successful completed these background
checks must operate under LOSS of at least one background-checked paid staff or statutory volunteer. Unit-level,
FRG-sponsored events/activities are not subject to these requirements.
    e. Staff shall ensure risk management procedures including loss, accountability mechanisms, and child abuse
prevention practices are in place to protect the health, safety, and well being of youth at all times.

6-8. Staff outreach
   a. Youth staff will participate in relevant JFHQ/State/community groups such as the ISFAC, OMK State Team,
State and local Educator and School Administrator Councils, and YRRP Integrated Process Team for YRRP event
planning.
   b. The CYP shall form partnerships and collaborations with schools, chaplains, military police, and national
youth organizations to deliver programs more effectively. The CYP can be active members of the Boys and Girls
Club of America (BGA), support 4–H Clubs, and implement programs promulgated by the National Alliance for
Youth Sports.
     c. Examples of Activities, Sports, fitness, and health options include (* options are baseline support):
     (1) Examples of life skills, citizenship, and leadership opportunities:
          a. *Pre-Teen council
          b. *Youth council
          c. Youth sponsorship
          d. *Community service
          e. *Workforce preparation
          f. Youth technology labs
          g. Ecology youth leadership forums
          h. Civic experiences
          i. Life skill workshops and classes
          j. *Character education
          k. Youth organizations (BGA, 4–H, Scouts, YMCA, etc.)
          l . Youth entrepreneur “businesses”
          m. Youth exchange programs
     (2) Sample arts, recreation, and leisure activities:
          a. Self-directed activities (formerly open recreation)
          b. *Skill-building classes
          c. Educational tours
          d. Individual and group lessons
          e. Camping and “challenge” experiences specialty camps
          f. Recreational trips
          g. Clubs
          h. Social events
          i. Competitions
          j. Cultural arts
          k. Youth organizations (BGCA, 4–H, Scouts, YMCA, etc.)
     (3) Sample mentoring, intervention, and education support services:
          a. Homework centers
          b. Home alone skills
          c.*Child/youth abuse protection program
          d. Mentor programs
     (4) Sample activities within the service areas:
          a. *Conflict resolution training


                                                                                                       15
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                                                   4 August 2011


          b. Peer mediation
          c. *Parent and youth support activities or groups
          d. *Personal safety
          e. *Substance abuse protection education
          f. *Youth crime and violence protection
     (5) Examples of fitness and health outreach:
          a. *Nutrition counseling/education
          b. *Health promotion classes/events
          c. Aerobics
          d. Swimming laps
          e. Weight lifting
          f. Biking community
          g. Sports leagues
          h. Fitness trails/challenge courses
          i. Hiking outdoor adventure experiences

6-9. Core program elements
The following program elements will be provided to NG youth, based on available funding from each NG
component:
     a. National.
       (1) Guard Teen Panel (GTP). The GTP is a joint youth council modeled after the Army Teen Panel (ATP).
They are the voice of the NG Youth. Panel members are chosen through a selection process to represent the NG
Youth nationwide. There are 10 Teen Panel Members, representing NG Youth in each of the FP regions and two At-
Large Members (the ARNG youth delegate to the ATP; and the ANG youth delegate to the Air Force Youth
Council).
       (2) National Youth Symposium. The objective of the National Youth Symposiums is to enhance the life skills
of ARNG Youth between the ages of 15 and 17 years to promote their leadership, resilience and personal
development. The National Youth Symposium also allows Guard Youth to provide input to the NGB-FP regarding
Child & Youth program needs.
     b. State.
       (1) State Teen Panel. Each JFHQ will have a state-level Teen Panel/Teen Council analogous to the GTP, and
may have Councils down to the regional level within the State (depending on state size and geographic dispersion of
Guard Youth). Each State Teen Panel will communicate CYP issues and concerns to their State Youth Coordinator.
If these issues/concerns require action above the state level, these issues will be forwarded to the ARNG Child &
Youth Program office at NGB for consideration/resolution by the GTP and NGB.
       (2) State Youth Symposium. The objective of the National Youth Symposiums is to enhance the life skills of
NG Youth between the ages of 9 and 17 years to promote their leadership, resilience and personal development.
Scheduled locally and conducted annually, the State Youth Symposium brings youth leaders together to share
experiences about coping with deployment cycle issues, provide input to the SFP regarding NG CYP needs, and
offer leadership and life skills training opportunities to youth volunteers.
       (3) NG Youth Leadership Forums. NG Youth Leadership Forums (YLFs) are single and multi-day
residential and non-residential CYP opportunities, conducted at the state level for NG Youth between the ages of 9
and 17 years. YLFs support prevention initiatives to mitigate at-risk behaviors, enhance life skills, and promote
leadership, resilience and personal development.
       (4) NG Youth Camps. NG Youth Camps are single and multi-day residential and non-residential CYP
opportunities, conducted at the state level for NG Youth between the ages of 9 and 17 years. Camps are conducted
during out of school time and provide supervision during out of school hours and support prevention initiatives to
mitigate youth violence, gang activities, substance abuse and other at-risk behaviors and school transition and
support services. Camps also enhance the life skills and promote leadership, resilience and personal development.
    c. Yellow Ribbon Deployment Cycle Support. Yellow Ribbon Deployment Cycle Support activities are single
and multi-day events held during YRRP pre-, during- and post-deployment events where Families are in attendance.
Age-appropriate curriculum focuses on building readiness and resilience skills of ARNG Youth between the ages of
6 and 17 years to assist them in managing deployment and reintegration-related challenges.




16
4 August 2011                                                                *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009


6-10. Child care
Depending on availability of funds, the FP may authorize appropriated or non appropriated funds for needed family
support functions, including child care for uniformed Service members who are assigned to duty or ordered to active
duty in conjunction with contingency operations see DoDD 1342.17, and DoDI 1342.22.
   a. Child care services, when provided, will be contracted or conducted by volunteers.
   b. Contracted child care providers will meet state licensing guidelines and have completed required background
checks. NG CYP staff will not provide child care services.
   c. Any volunteers providing child care services are considered gratuitous volunteers and are not eligible for
reimbursement of incidental expenses per AR 215-3. Babysitting-type services are not a core element of the NG
CYP. NG CYP staff will not be required to provide paid or gratuitous volunteer support of child care services.
Child care provided by volunteers is done outside of the NG CYP and is treated as a unit-sponsored activity.

6-11. Funding
   a. NG CYP are supported with appropriated funds. Appropriated funds can support following programs; core
child care, youth and school support resources for The Total Army to support Force Stabilization, including CYP
personnel to operate youth and school support programs, and partnership agreements/contract services for off-post
Army sponsored community based child care. Relevant ANG FP funding is used to support larger than incidental
ANG youth participation.
   b. Types of materials and services appropriated funds can buy
       (1) Contract Services which support program core elements. Transportation is either on-site shuttle or single
transportation mode of all youth attendees to one location.
       (2) Office Supplies.
       (3) Mission and Informational materials to include marketing and event support consumables, including
supplies that support program activities.
       (4) Newsletters and Printing costs associated with printing and distribution of Child & Youth Newsletter and
marketing materials (brochures, posters, etc.).
       (5) Postage costs associated with mail campaigns and Child & Youth information mailed directly to Families.
       (6) Support Equipment costs associated with mobile and offsite support capability of paid staff and costs
associated with non-contract IT and equipment support to events.
       (7) Training Support costs associated with Youth Symposium, Youth Leadership Forums, Youth Camps or
Youth Program Volunteer Training, including training materials.
       (8) Youth Delegate/Youth Program Volunteer Travel includes ITO/ITA travel expenses associated with GTP,
NG Youth Symposium attendance for Youth Delegates.
       (9) Youth Program Volunteer Background Checks are costs associated with obtaining, and updating, the
required background checks for statutory youth program volunteers 18 years of age and older.
   c. Costs associated with Youth Program Volunteer awards, recognition and reimbursement should come from
NAF funds received by the SFP office for this purpose.

6-12. Invitational Travel Orders (ITOs) for Youth
   a. Per JFTR, appendix E, Volume 1, anyone on an ITO must be a volunteer, having signed a volunteer
agreement; for a youth, there must be parental permission to be a youth volunteer as well. A volunteer can only be
considered an employee of the government if they have signed a statutory volunteer agreement (USC 10, Section
1588).
   c. ITOs are not provided in order for NG Youth to participate in program-sponsored camps and youth program
events, except for state-level for youth training (e.g. State Youth Symposium) and State Teen Panel where there is a
benefit to the government.
   e. If transportation is an issue for a number of youth in an area, the program can charter buses/shuttles to pick
youth up at a central location within a region (not at their houses). Appropriate background-checked staff should be
on these buses to escort youth to the event location.
   f. Every effort should be made to hold events in locations where the majority of youth do not have to travel great
distances.

6-13. Government vehicles
   a. IAW AR 58–1, the commander may authorize government vehicle use in support of official volunteer
activities, including the transportation of volunteers for volunteer mission-related activities.




                                                                                                         17
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                                                    4 August 2011


    b. Government vehicles may be used to support official activities, including NG CYP activities, when the
appropriate commander determines the use of the vehicle is for official purposes and failure to provide such support
would have an adverse effect on the mission.
    c. The driver must have a valid and current license to operate the vehicle and all other regulatory requirements
regarding the use of the government vehicle will be followed. Contracted staff is permitted to operate government
vehicles provided that language is added to the contract which commits the contractor to liability for vehicle
utilization outside of approved mission support activities. Additional personal insurance requirements may also
exist. The use of the vehicle must be provided without detriment to the accomplishment of the unit’s mission.

6-14. Compliance
Programs shall comply with applicable statutory requirements and DoD policies.


Chapter 7
Army National Guard Family Program

7-1. Family Readiness Support Assistant (FRSA)
The FRSA works as part of the SFP Office receiving guidance and training from and works closely with the SFPD.
The primary objective is to support Family readiness programs in an assigned command and will provide
administrative assistance and logistical support to the FRG and the commander.

7-2. Family Assistance Centers (FACs)
The mission of the FAC is to facilitate commander’s ability to provide comprehensive, coordinated, and responsive
services which support readiness of uniformed Service members, civilian employees and their Families. The NG is
the lead agency tasked to establish FACs during all levels of contingency, mobilization and emergency to assist all
DoD Personnel and their Families. FACs are established and managed IAW AR 608-1 and are structured to support
Service members and Families of all service branches. FACs will maximize technology and resources, adapt to
unique state requirements, eliminate duplication in service delivery, and measure service effectiveness. FACs in the
NG are not necessarily structured as 24 hour resource centers but rather centers staffed by the SFPO with the
mission to support and or be a conduit to support for all Service members and their Families. These centers will
have a 24 hour emergency contact number. FACs are established and/or overseen by the SFP staff.
     a. In times of large scale mobilizations or other situations requiring activations and/or when assistance
requirements exceed the FP capabilities, a FAC will be established for geographically dispersed units or satellite
service delivery.
     b. The FAC shall be established to conduct initial interviews, assess individual and Family needs, provide
information and make service referrals within the center and to external agencies.
     c. The FAC assists the commander by providing comprehensive, coordinated and responsive services which
support readiness of Service members, civilian employees, retirees, and their Families.
     d. The FAC provides information and emotional support to Families so that Service members can focus on their
mission. Services may include: legal assistance, TRICARE, DEERS / ID cards, outreach, information and referral
to appropriate service agencies, problem solving and crisis resolution, accurate and current information and
coordination with rear detachments (RDs) of deployed units.
     e. Programs shall provide information to DoD personnel and their Family members, improve skills for living by
fostering competencies and coping skills, encourage self sufficiency and offer short-term support and assistance
when necessary.
     f. The FAC shall provide immediate, short term intervention and referral to the appropriate agency to assist
Service members and Families facing crisis situations. The FAC will keep the unit leadership involved, without
breaching confidentiality, and encourage active unit participation in problem resolution.




18
4 August 2011                                                              *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009


Chapter 8
Air National Guard Family Program

8-1. Concept of Operations
This instruction establishes the following concept of operations for the Airman & Family Readiness Program
(A&FRP):
    a. Provides consultation services to Commanders and assists them in developing and executing policies,
programs, and processes which enhance individual, family and community readiness.
    b. Supports mission readiness by assisting service members and their families adapt to the changes and demands
of military life.
    c. Serves DoD military, civilian personnel, other eligible uniformed members, military retirees, their family
members and survivors.
    d. Aligns the Airman & Family Readiness Program Manager (A&FRPM) position at the discretion of the Wing
Commander to meet local workload requirements and functional compatibility.
    e. Ensures service members and their families are prepared for the many demands and responsibilities often
associated with activation, mobilization, deployment and demobilization. Ensures Commanders incorporate the
Airman & Family Readiness Program Office (A&FRPO) as an item on all in and out processing checklists.
    f. Collaborates with local agencies, uniformed services and other service delivery agencies to enhance the
quality of life initiatives during steady state and contingency operations.
    g. Services will focus on the A&FRPM core competencies; Information (Identification)/Referral; Deployment
Cycle Support; Readiness: Personal, Family, Unit and Community; Life Skills Education, Consultation, and
Transition Guidance; Community Outreach and Cooperative Interface; and Volunteer Communication, Direction
and Guidance. In conjunction with the unit designated Family Readiness POC, the A&FRPM will consult with the
Commander to routinely assess family readiness, strengths, resources and concerns.
    h. Assists unit leadership in the development and establishment of procedures within each unit to routinely
contact and follow up with families of deployed unit members. Each unit commander should designate a military
member within the organization to act as a POC to work with the A&FRPM.
    i. Service delivery will be provided based on need and assessed when deemed appropriate by the Commander.

8-2. Responsibilities and authorities
      a. The Director, Air National Guard (ANG)/(NGB/CF) establishes and directs policy, oversees implementation
of the A&FRP and provides resources.
     b. The Adjutant General (TAG), the Commanding General (CG), and JFHQ oversees integration for the
support of the FPs within their respective States and Territories.
     (1) The SFP Office and the A&FRP office will collaborate to implement higher headquarters operational plans.
     (2) Ensure compliance with the requirements of higher headquarters policies, instructions and directives.
     c. The Wing Commanders mandate appropriate facilities, funding levels and manpower. Leadership facilitates
personal readiness services to service members and their families and activates the Emergency Family Assistance
Control Center (E-FACC) when necessary.
     (1) Upon implementation of the base Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP), the Commander
activates the E-FACC to serve as the focal point for victim and family assistance services.
     (2) Ensure all service members are provided an annual Family readiness information briefing, as well as
mobilization, pre-deployment, reunion/reintegration, and de-mobilization briefings.
     (3) Ensure the A&FRPM attends appropriate training not later than one year from assignment to the position
and appropriate professional development on a recurring basis as required.
     d. Services Division (NGB/A1S) is the office of primary responsibility as designated by the NGB/CF and is
responsible for the following:
     (1) Manage and provide oversight for the A&FRP by developing and disseminating policy, plans, and program
guidance.
     (2) Coordinate A&FRP input to the NGB-FP internet home page.
     (3) Develop, coordinate and implement the ANG FP input to the NGB-FP Strategic Plan.
     (4) Coordinate, develop and provide oversight of DoD/AF/ANG standards for the A&FRP, as necessary.
     (5) Ensure compliance within the A&FRP. Provide coordination on family program policies, procedures and
initiatives.
     (6) Monitor ANG family issues.
     (7) Request budgets and address resource issues, to include manpower, in support of the A&FRP requirements.


                                                                                                      19
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                                                      4 August 2011


     (8) Develop and forward for review and approval a comprehensive evaluation system to measure the
effectiveness of the ANG A&FRPs to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Management &
Policy (OASD FM&P).
     (9) Participate and coordinate on the AF and ANG Community Action Information Board (CAIB) and
disseminate agenda and minutes to A&FRPMs.

8-3. Airman & Family Readiness Program Managers (A&FRPMs)
Manage and lead the A&FRP and consult with the Wing Commander and wing leadership regarding family issues
and is responsible for the following:
     a. Develops, coordinates, and implements the Airman & Family Readiness strategic plan.
     b. Participates and coordinates with leadership in the development of policy and plans related to the A&FRP
which enable commanders to sustain Service Members’ and their Families’ readiness.
     c. Develops and oversees execution of the A&FRP budget. Program funds should be used to support A&FRP
responsibilities and core competency activities.
     d. Gifts or donations may be accepted with the appropriate authority in accordance with regulatory guidance
IAW AFI 51-601.
     e. Develops and implements a marketing strategy for all A&FRP activities.
     f. Ensures core activities and programs are available to all eligible personnel, including those at geographically
separated units (GSUs); as well as, coordinates with other federal, state and civilian agencies.
     g. Identifies personal and Family readiness issues/trends by working with families, unit leadership and a wide
range of civilian and military agencies.
     h. Ensures goals and objectives are aligned with gaining MAJCOM outcome measures and service results where
applicable. FP and its services at Chiefs’ Groups, First Sergeants’ Groups and other applicable forums. The
A&FRPM serves as Family Matters advisor.
     j. Provides services to personnel IAW Host/Tenant Support Agreements, Community Basing and to those
located at GSUs. Acts as primary liaison for ANG A&FRP in Reserve and Active Associate Wings or those co-
located on Active Duty military installations.
     k. Coordinates with other military, national/local government, and civilian agencies as needed for effective
service delivery. A&FRPMs should ensure maximum utilization of quality of life programs offered by other
organizations.
     l. Ensures all newly assigned Commanders, First Sergeants, and CSMSGTs are briefed within 90 days of their
appointment on the role of the A&FRP in personal, family, and community readiness.
     m. Assists in all aspects of Airman & Family Readiness activities, e.g. the mechanisms essential for enhancing
readiness throughout all stages of deployments, mobilizations, major accident response exercises (MARE),
inspections, separations, base, local, state or national emergencies, disasters, and evacuations.
    n. A&FRPMs may request information from Director of Personnel (DP), Office of Personnel Management
(OPM) or the Virtual Record of Emergency Data (vRed), when Family information is necessary.
     o. Ensures compliance with the applicable inspection checklist requirements and other directives and correction
of any deficiencies, as noted by the gaining MAJCOM.
     p. Maintains familiarity with base contingency/operational plans and Host/Tenant Agreements, Community
Basing as they relate to Family readiness and mobilizations. A&FRPMs ensures development and implementation
of a written Airman & Family Readiness response plan and its incorporation into installation operations plans.
     q. Be familiar with Federal, State, and local emergency resource and assistance programs.
     r. A&FRPMs coordinates volunteer initiatives and activities, when applicable. Volunteer recognition should be
determined by a unit Commander, e.g. Volunteer Excellence Award (VEA).
     s. During national, state and local emergencies and exercises, the A&FRPM will work within the military chain
to elevate family status and issues based on data from Air Force Personnel Assessment and Accountability System
(AFPAAS).
     t. Manages KVT program.
     u. Utilizes Air Force Family Integrated Results and Statistical Tracking (AFFIRST) for data management.

8-4. Core competencies
These activities are integral to each A&FRPM. Activities require outreach to deliver services/programs beyond the
walls of the A&FRP office.
    a. Information, Referral and Follow-up. Assists service members and their families to identify, clarify needs,
and determine appropriate forms of assistance. Provides links to community resources. Appropriate referral is


20
4 August 2011                                                                 *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009


ensured through follow-up. The A&FRPM will evaluate trends and gaps in services for policy, planning and
coordination purposes.

                  Examples of information and referral:
                  •   Wounded Warrior/Casualty Assistance
                  •   Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP)
                  •   Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program (YRRP)
                  •   Financial Wellness
                  •   Strong Bonds/Marriage Enrichment

     b. Deployment Cycle Support.
     (1) A&FRPM should be included in all Personnel Deployment Function (PDF) Lines, deployment briefings,
and on all deployment checklists.
     (2) Ensure reintegration initiatives of the Airman and FPs align, augment and enhance existing reintegration
instructions and policy.
     (3) Identify and package delivery service options and align with each Wing Installation Deployment Plan (IDP).
     (4) Pre deployment support includes providing Service Members and their Families with education, information
and resources to prepare for their separation.
     (5) A&FRPMs are a resource to provide Commanders with information and assistance with Family Care Plans.
The responsibility for creating, updating, and/or monitoring Family Care Plans lies with the Commander and the
individual Airman.
     (6) Maintains periodic contact and provides assistance and support to Service Members, Families and their
command throughout the deployment cycle.
     (7) Post deployment support will focus on reconnecting Service Members with their Families as well as
providing information and access to resources which will facilitate a successful reintegration.
     c. Readiness: Personal, Family, Unit and Community.
     (1) Education, Information and Assistance. The A&FRPM prepares information and provides on-going
education and assistance via social media, time sensitive briefings, newsletters, bulletin boards, direct mail, e-mail
or activities to service members, families, leadership, and volunteers. Information, education and assistance efforts
are aimed at preparing service members and families to be optimally prepared for all facets of military life.
     (2) Assists Commanders in providing all service members with an annual Family Readiness information
briefing, as well as Newcomers Orientation, mobilization, pre-deployment, reunion/reintegration, and de-
mobilization briefings as required.
     (3) Families are encouraged to participate in Newcomers Orientation, Family Readiness Information Briefings
pre-deployment, re-integration, and de-mobilization. A&FRP information will be provided for inclusion in unit
sponsorship packages.
     (4) Disaster Response. A&FRPM provides assistance and support to service members, families and leadership
during evacuations, local/national emergencies and disaster response.
     (5) Upon activation of the base CEMP or by direction of the Wing commander, the A&FRPM supports the E-
FACC as the subject matter expert on family matters. The A&FRPM will follow the directions in the DoDI and AFI
directives for the establishment of the E-FACC and proactively cultivate the community resources for future needs.
     (6) Upon implementation of the base CEMP the Commander activates the E-FACC to serve as the focal point
for victim and family assistance services. The E-FACC, prescribed by DoDI 1342.22, serves as a staging area
where families can obtain disaster relief, contingency information, and services.
     (7) Crisis Assistance. A&FRPM provides immediate, short term intervention and referral to appropriate agency
or service to assist Airmen and families facing crisis situations. To include getting service member’s unit leadership
involved by encouraging and fostering active unit participation in problem resolution.
     (8) Noncombatant Evacuation Operations (NEO) and Repatriation IAW appropriate policy/guidance and the
Joint Plan for Noncombatant Evacuation Operations (NEO)/Repatriation. A&FRPMs may provide essential services
during the repatriation operation, and local assistance and aide when families reach their safe haven/final
destination. If required, the E-FACC model will be used for in processing evacuees.
     (9) The receiving base will coordinate with private sector organizations, financial aid, interpreters, and offer
emotional support for the families. Organize and train volunteers and interpreters to act as sponsors for families
during in-processing. Assist families in correctly completing DD Form 2585, (Repatriation Processing Center
Processing Sheet).




                                                                                                          21
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                                                     4 August 2011


     (10) Provides a POC (name, phone number) for the repatriated family at the Airman and Family Readiness
Center nearest the family’s intended safe haven/final destination.
     (11) Provide sustainment support services for Active Associate/Joint Based/Total Force Integration ANG
Wings; GSUs; and all branches of service.
     d. Life Skills Education, Consultation, and Transition Guidance.
     Provides referral for prevention and enrichment education/services designed to strengthen and build resiliency,
readiness and foster the self-sufficiency of service members and families.
     (1) Based on units emerging needs, or those identified by Commanders, the following service deliveries may be
coordinated by the A&FRPM: Personal Financial Management, Relocation Assistance Program, Employment
Assistance, Military Child Education and Awareness, Resiliency, Stress Management, Traumatic Stress Response,
and Transition Assistance Program. As needed, the A&FRPM may assist with the Marriage Enrichment program.
     (2) Pre separation Counseling is mandatory for Active Guard/Reserve (AGR) service members separating or
retiring from Service. In addition, members that serve 180 cumulative days or more of Title10 orders or deployed in
their career must receive pre-separation counseling. A copy of DD Form 2648-1, (Pre separation Counseling
Checklist for Active Component Service Members Released from Active Duty), supplemental counseling
addendum, must be retained in the permanent personnel record of each member and must be accomplished using
AFFIRST.
     e. Community Outreach and Cooperative Interface:
     (1) CAIB: When co-located on a military installation the A&FRPM participates in the Host CAIB and
Integrated Delivery System (IDS) IAW AFI 90-501. ANG units not co-located should work to achieve the intent
and desired outcomes of a CAIB/IDS function. The intent can be fulfilled by participation in local and or regional
ISFACs or similar organizations.
     (2) Interfaces and collaborates with parent MAJCOM, other services FPs and State JFHQ.
     (3) Develops strategic plan incorporating community support for E-FACC with Memorandum of
Understandings (MOUs).
     f. Volunteer Communication, Direction and Guidance.
     (1) Develops a clear and shared vision for volunteers.
     (2) Develops strategic roadmap which involves funding, execution and program development.

8-5. Non-duplication
The A&FRPM will not assume responsibility for providing services and programs that clearly fall within the scope
of other military agencies or are available and accessible from other resources.

8-6. Privacy information
All information obtained from individuals must be appropriately safeguarded to protect an individual’s privacy.
Disclosure of any records must be in compliance with AFI 33-332. Certain instances governed by regulations and
statutes require reporting to appropriate authorities. Release of any personal information must be requested by
appropriate agency/individual “FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY” (FOUO) and the request/release of information must
be documented in writing. Prior to obtaining information, A&FRPMs must inform clients that information may be
released under limited circumstances.
     a. Instances to report include (but are not limited to) concerns about: Personnel Reliability Program (PRP), IAW
AFI 40-301, and the commission of a crime in violation of Uniformed Code of Military Justice, Federal or State law.
Clear threats to mission accomplishment or individual safety require reporting to proper authorities.
b. Volunteers may have access to Privacy Act information, DOD 5400.11-R (reference (c)) provides for the
disclosure of privacy protected records to Agency employees who need the records in the performance of their
duties. Access to records contained in a Privacy Act system of records may be provided to a volunteer of a DOD
Component other than non appropriated fund instrumentalities. Any volunteer with such access must comply with
the protection, disclosure, disclosure accounting, and other requirements.

8-7. Resources and data management
A&FRPMs will manage/monitor fund operating procedures, resource estimates and budget execution.
     a. Procurement of low value promotional items, such as pens, pencils, magnets, key chains etc. is authorized for
the express intent of awareness and education of eligible customers.
     b. Guidance for establishing and operating private organizations may be found in AFI 34-223. The A&FRPM
may be an advisor to a Private Organization, but cannot be perceived as “owning” or managing the Private




22
4 August 2011                                                                  *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009


Organization. Any military/civilian employee working with the Private Organization must do so on personal time,
not during duty hours.
     c. Records/Forms. A&FRPMs will maintain records, forms, reports IAW applicable regulations. Computer
hardware, software, and training will be compatible with mission requirements.
     d. Facilities. Facilities should be easily identifiable and when possible within close proximity to other support
activities. Consideration should allow for easy accessibility, with parking immediately adjacent to the facility.
Facility furnishings should be durable, comfortable, attractive and consistent with a warm, inviting environment.
Private office space is required, ideally 180 sq feet minimum should be offered. The space should be adequate for a
standard size desk, chair, visitor seating, locking filing cabinets, book shelves, floor-to-ceiling walls and closable
doors. Storage and supply areas are necessary. The office must include computers, telephone, facsimile, and
internet connectivity.

8-8. Forms
Service member/Family Data Card/Volunteer Data or Service Records may be locally developed to meet mission
requirements. DD Form 2793 must be completed by statutory Air Guard volunteers. Volunteers working with
children will have applicable background checks as prescribed by Federal and State law, DoD Issuances and Air
Force Instructions( AFI).




                                                                                                           23
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                                           4 August 2011


Appendix A

References

Section I
Required Publications
This section contains no entries.


Section II
Related Publications

AFI 24-301
Vehicle Operations

AFI 33-332
Privacy Act Program

AFI 34-108
Air Force Commercial Sponsorship Program and Sale of NAFI Advertising Procedures

AFI 34-201
Use of Non-Appropriated Funds (NAFs)

AFI 34-223
Private Organization (PO) Program

AFI 34-249
Youth Programs

AFI 36-2706
Equal Opportunity Program Military and Civilian

AFI 36-3009
Airman and Family Readiness Centers

AFI 40-301
Family Advocacy

AFI 51-601
Gifts to the Department of the Air Force

AFI 90-501
Community Action Information Board and Intergrated Delivery System

AFPD 34-8
Youth Program

AR 25-55
The Department of Army Freedom of Information Act

AR 58–1
Management, Acquisition and Use of Motor Vehicles

AR 210-22
Private Organizations on Department of the Army Installations


24
4 August 2011                                                              *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009




AR 215-1
Military Morale, Welfare, and Recreation Program and Non-appropriated Funds Instrumentalities

AR 215-3
Non-appropriated Funds Personnel Policy

AR 340-21
The Army Privacy Program

AR 608-1
Army Community Service Center

AR 608-10
Child Development Services

AR 608-75
Exceptional Family Member Program

DoD 4525.8–M
DoD Official Mail Manual

DoD 5400.11-R
DoD Privacy Program

DoD 5500.7-R
Joint Ethics Regulation

DoD 7000.14-R
DoD Financial Management Regulation

DoDD 1342.17
Family Policy

DoDI 1000.15
Procedures and Support for Non-Fed Entities Authorized to operate on DOD Installations

DoDI 1015.10
Military Morale, Welfare, and Recreation Programs

DoDI 1342.22
Family Centers

DoDI 1402.5
Criminal History Background Checks on Individuals in Childcare Services,

DoDI 6060.4
Youth Programs

JFTR
Joint Federal Travel Regulation

NGR 600-21
Equal Opportunity Program in the Army National Guard




                                                                                                25
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                                             4 August 2011



NGR 600-22/ANGI 36-3
National Guard Military Discrimination Complaint System

United States Code (USC) Title 5, §552
Records maintained on individuals

USC Title 10 §1588
Authority to accept certain voluntary services

USC Title 31 §341
Money and Finance


Section III
Prescribed Forms
This section contains no entries.


Section IV
Referenced Forms

DA Form 4162
Army Community Service (ACS) Volunteer Service Record

DD Form 2585
Reparation Processing Center Processing Sheet

DD Form 2648-1
Presentation Counseling Checklist for Reserve Component Service Members Released from Active Duty

DD Form 2793
Volunteer Agreement for Appropriated Funds (APF) and Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Instrumentalies.




26
4 August 2011                                                                 *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009


Appendix B
Management Control Evaluation Process

B-1. Function
The function covered by this evaluation process is the State Family Program

B-2. Key management controls
     a. Annual review
     b. Certification that a required internal control evaluation has been conducted will be documented on DA Form
11-2 (Internal Control Evaluation Certification). Certification, in block 7 of DA Form 11-2 will include a statement
of the method used and how compliance was tested.; summary of results; list of any deficiencies identified (indicate
no deficiencies if there were none); and what corrective actions(s) have been taken, as well as what deficiencies are
pending correction.
     c. When applicable use AFPD 65-2, (Management Control Program) and AFI 65-201 (Management Control) in
regard to Air Guard Family Program

B-3. Management control evaluation process. An annual review will be completed to substantiate compliance
with the following:
     a. The State Family Program has a staff in accordance with paragraph 1-5 (Structure and organization),
subparagraph “d” of this regulation.
     b. The State Family Program has a volunteer management program.
     c. All client data gathered is safeguarded per AR 340-21/AFI 33-332.
     d. The SFPD prepares and tracks annual budget and spending plans, shortfalls, and unfunded requirements in
accordance with DFAS and USPFO regulations.
     e. The State Family Program follows proper procurement practices.
     f. A procedure is in place that controls inventory of physical property such as, but not limited to furnishings,
copy machines, fax machines, audiovisual equipment, telephone systems, computers, and so forth as required by the
USPFO.
     g. The State Family Program has the following physical property onsite to support services and administrative
processes such as, but not limited to:
        1. Sufficient telephone lines with appropriate access to Defense Service Network for incoming and outgoing
calls.
        2. Internet accessibility for all staff
        3. Audiovisual equipment
        4. Automated data processing equipment
        5. Locking file cabinets for Privacy Act materials and filing cabinets for administrative materials.
        6. Adequate automation equipment for all programs
     h. State Family Program facilities/offices are accessible to individuals with disabilities.




                                                                                                         27
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                        4 August 2011


Glossary

Section I
Abbreviations

AC
Active Component

AF
Air Force

AFAS
Air Force Aid Society

AFFIRST
Air Force Family Intergrated Results and Statistical Tracking

AFFORGEN
Army Force Generation

AFH
Air Force Handbook

AFI
Air Force Instruction

AFPAAS
Air Force Personnel Assestment & Accountability System

AFPC
Air Force Personnel Center

AFPD
Air Force Policy Directive

AFRC
Air Force Reserve Command

A&FROP
Airman & Family Readiness Program Office

A&FRP
Airman and Family Readiness Program

A&FRPM
Airman and Family Readiness Program Manager

AFTB
Army Family Team Building

AG
Active Guard

AGR
Active Guard Reserve




28
4 August 2011                                             *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009


AL
American Legion

AMSCO
Army Management Structure Code

AMVETS
American Veterans

ANG
Air National Guard

ANGI
Air National Guard Instruction

APF
Appropriated Funds

AR
Army Regulation

ARC
American Red Cross

ARNG
Army National Guard

ATP
Army Teen Panel

BGA
Boys and Girls Club of America

CAC
Community Action Council

CAIB
Community Action Information Board

CDS
Child Development Services

CEMP
Comprehensive Emergency Management Program

CID
Criminal Investigation Division

CNAIC
Child Care National Agency Check with Written Inquiries

CNGB
Chief, National Guard Bureau

CSM
Command Sergeant Major


                                                                               29
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                          4 August 2011



CSMsgt
Command Chief Master Sergeant

CYP
Child and Youth Program

DA
Department of the Army

DA PAM
Department of the Army Pamphlet

DAF
Department of the Air Force

DEERS
Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System

DJS
Director of the Joint Staff

DoD
Department of Defense

DoDD
Department of Defense Directive

DoDI
Department of Defense Instruction

DP
Director of Personnel

EEIC
Element of Expense Identification Code

EEO
Equal Employment Opportunity

E-FACC
Emergency Family Assistance Control Center

EFMP
Exceptional Family Member Program

ESGR
Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve

FAC
Family Assistance Center

FAP
Army Family Action Plan




30
4 August 2011                               *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009


FOUO
For Official Use Only

FP
Family Program

FRA
Family Readiness Assistant

FRG
Family Readiness Group

FRP
Family Readiness Plan

FRSA
Family Readiness Support Assistant

FS
Family Support

FY
Fiscal Year

GSU
Geographically Separated Unit

GTP
Guard Teen Panel

IAW
In accordance with

ID
Identification Card

IDP
Installation Deployment Plan

IDS
Integrated Delivery System

ISFAC
Inter Service Family Assistance Committee

ITA
Invitational Travel Authorization

ITO
Invitational Travel Order

JFHQ
Joint Forces Headquarters

JFSAP
Joint Family Support Assistance Program


                                                                 31
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                       4 August 2011



JFTR
Joint Federal Travel Regulation

KVT
Key Volunteer Team

LOSS
Line of Sight Supervision

MACOM
Major Army command

MAJCOM
Major Command

MARE
Major Accident Response Exercise

MOU
Memorandum of Understanding

MWR
Morale, Welfare and Recreation

NAC
National Agency Check

NAF
Non-appropriated Fund

NAIC
National Agency Check with Written Inquiries

NEO
Noncombatant Evacuation Operations

NG
National Guard

NGB
National Guard Bureau

NGB/CF
Director of the Air National Guard

NG CYP
National Guard Child &Youth Program

NGB-FP
National Guard Bureau Family Program

OA
Officers Association




32
4 August 2011                                                                *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009


OASD FM&P
Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Management & Policy

OMK
Operation Military Kids

OPM
Office of Personnel Management

OSD
Office of Secretary of Defense

PDF
Personnel Deployment Function Lines

POC
Point of Contact

PRP
Personal Reliability Program

RD
Rear Detachment

SA
Salvation Army

SARC
Sexual Assault Response Coordinator

SAS
School Aged Services

SCHR
State Criminal History Repository

SEG
Senior Enlisted Group

SFP
State Family Program

SFPD
State Family Program Director

SFPO
State Family Program Office

SJA
Staff Judge Advocate

SOP
Standard Operating Procedure

SOS
Survivor Outreach Specialist


                                                                                                  33
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                                                 4 August 2011



SPPM
Suicide Prevention Program Manager

SYC
State Youth Coordinator

TAA
Transition Assistance Advisor

TAG
The Adjutant General

TFFR
Total Force Family Readiness

USPFO
United States Property and Fiscal Office

VA
Veteran’s Administration

VEA
Volunteer Excellence Award

VFW
Veterans of Foreign Wars

VRED
Virtual Record of Emergency Data

VSO
Veterans Service Organization

YLS
Youth Leadership Forums

YRRP
Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program

YS
Youth Services


Section II
Terms

Adjutant General
The commander of the Army and Air National Guard in each State or Territory.

Airman and Family Readiness Program Manager
The individual assigned to the Wing, to advise command on Family matters and provide information, resources and
referral to Service members and Families.

Commanding General (CG)
The commander of the Army and Air National Guard in the District of Columbia.


34
4 August 2011                                                                  *NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009



Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS)
The verification system for eligibility for medical treatment of military members and their Families at military
medical treatment (MTF) facilities and for payment of treatment at civilian health care facilities through TRICARE.

Department of Defense (DoD) Personnel and Their Families
This includes all military members, all Services and Guard and Reserve, military retirees, DoD civilians (including
guard technicians and NAF personnel) and their eligible immediate Family members. Other Uniformed Services
include members of the US Coast Guard, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, uniformed State
Department personnel, Public Health Service personnel and members of foreign military units assigned or attached
to a CONUS or OCONUS (US) installation.

Direct Support (DS)
Is a mission requiring a force to support another specific force and authorizing it to answer directly to the supported
force’s request for assistance. When operating in the DS role, missions can be coordinated directly between the
assigned unit and the supported unit.

Family/Family Member
For the purposes of entitlements, the Family is the spouse and/or children of the military member or anyone who
meets the military dependency criteria outlined in AR 608-1/AFI 36-3009. For the purposes of information
briefings/activities, the Family is expanded to encompass persons who have influence over the member’s attitude
toward military service; i.e., parents, siblings, fiancée, or common-law spouse.

Family Assistance Center (FAC)
The FACs primary mission is to provide information, resources and referral to Service members and Families in
need. For the purposes of the National Guard, a FAC may be located in brick and mortar facilities, such as armories,
Air Wings and other readiness centers. The FAC is not necessarily a 24 hour support center. Minimum necessary
supplies for Family assistance personnel working in FACs include but are not limited to the following: computers
with Internet capabilities, printers and cell phones.

Family Assistance Center Coordinator
Individual that supervises/coordinates the Family Assistance Centers and Specialists.

Family Assistance Center Specialist
The individual that mans and provides services from the FAC to provide information, resources and referral to
Service Members and Families.

Family Liaison/Military Point of Contact
A unit member designated by command as their Family Program representative.

Family Readiness Support Assistant
Individual(s) assigned to the Brigade/Troop Command/Battalion, to advise command on Family matters and to
support FRGs.

Inter-service Family Assistance Committee (ISFAC)
A local collaboration of Governmental, non-Governmental, community organizations, individuals, and Military
members from all Service branches working together to synchronize services and support for all Service members
and their Families.

Joint Family Support Assistance Program
A mobile support service which partners with Military, State and local resources to facilitate an integrated service
delivery system, community support and outreach for geographically dispersed Service members and their Families.




                                                                                                           35
*NGR 600-12/ANGI 36-3009                                                                      4 August 2011


Mobilization
The accelerated expansion of the AC by ordering the National Guard and Reserves to active duty to prepare for
and/or operate in war or national emergency. Mobilization has five phases: preparatory, alert, mobilization and
home station, movement to mobilization station, and operational readiness improvement.

State Family Program Director
The individual in the State identified as the primary point of contact to TAG for coordination and implementation of
the State Family Program.

State Child and Youth Program Coordinator
The individual(s) in the State identified as the primary point of contact for coordination and implementation of the
Child and Youth Program.

State
The 50 States and four Territories/District (Guam, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and the District of Columbia.)

Total Force
Members of the Active Duty Air Force, Air National Guard, Air Force Reserve, and Air Force Civilian employees,
and National Guard Technicians.

TRICARE
Department of Defense’s managed health care program for active duty military, active duty service Families, retirees
and their Families, and other beneficiaries.

Waiting Family
A Family that lives separately from their military sponsor because of a mission requirement. Such circumstances
include unaccompanied tours, extended temporary duty and field training exercises.

Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program (YRRP)
A program that networks military services, veteran service organization, state government departments and other
agencies that provide information, resources, referral and proactive outreach to Service members, spouses,
employers and youth throughout all mobilization phases.


Section III
Special Abbreviations and Terms
This section contains no entries.




36
