BY ORDER OF THE CHIEF,                               AIR NATIONAL GUARD INSTRUCTION 40-102
NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU                                                                     11 JULY 2008
                                                                          Certified Current 20 Aug 2013
                                                                                      Medical Command

                                                                                 STATE AIR SURGEON




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: NGB/SGP                                            Certified by: NGB/SG (Col William S. Riggins)
Supersedes ANGI 40-102, 10 May 2002                                                         Pages: 7

This instruction governs the position of the State Air Surgeon (SAS) in the Air National Guard (ANG). It
implements ANGPD 40-1, State Air Surgeon. This Air National Guard Instruction (ANGI) prescribes the
qualifications, duties, responsibilities, and both wartime and peacetime contingency requirements of the
State Air Surgeon.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.


1. Philosophy. The SAS enhances the ability of the ANG to properly perform its state and federal mis-
sions as the primary liaison between the individual medical/aeromedical evacuation units, the Adjutant
General (TAG) and the Air Surgeon (NGB/SG) on force protection medical issues, medical aspects of
homeland security and other medical matters. The SAS helps to ensure that the State maintains a viable
and healthy force for worldwide deployment. The SAS coordinates with the State’s Army National Guard
Surgeon as well as other ANG SASs within the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) region
to identify military medical capabilities. The SAS coordinates appropriate use of medical assets mobilized
for state or national emergencies and exercises staff oversight of ANG medical activities. Authority for
this position is as follows:
   1.1. Appointed by the Adjutant General with concurrence of NGB/SG.
   1.2. Member of the State Headquarters staff as the senior ANG medical officer.

2. Qualifications of SAS:
   2.1. Must hold the aeronautical rating of Air Force flight surgeon.
   2.2. Preferably has previous medical command experience.
   2.3. Should be an 0-6 or eligible for promotion to 0-6 with at least two years’ retainability.
2                                                                          ANGI40-102 11 JULY 2008


    2.4. Must have Provider Credential File (PCF) approved by NGB/SG within ninety days following
    appointment as the State Air Surgeon.
    2.5. Must complete a one week certification training program at NGB/SG within one year of appoint-
    ment as SAS and attend the Readiness Frontiers Symposium or equivalent within two years of
    appointment. Failure to complete the training negates authority outlined in Section 4 of this instruc-
    tion.
    2.6. NGB/SG retains authority to waive any of the above qualifications.

3. Mandatory Re-Qualification Training.
    3.1. At a minimum the SAS must attend an ANG annual SAS meeting at least every other Year
    (Readiness Frontiers, Association of Military Surgeons of the United States (AMSUS), etc.)
    3.2. Completes a one week recertification training program as directed by NGB/SG every five years
    in order to maintain waiver/certification authority.

4. Duties and Responsibilities of SAS. As the senior ANG medical officer in the State, the SAS serves
as consultant to the TAG for all medical issues. The SAS also acts as the liaison between NGB/SG and all
medical units within the State.
    4.1. The SAS functions as the State Headquarters’ Surgeon General in addressing all ANG medical
    and aeromedical programs within the State. Specifically the SAS:
       4.1.1. Oversees all force protection medical requirements for all ANG members of the State.
       4.1.2. Ensures that a host Medical Group (MDG) is assigned to all Geographically Separated
       Units (GSUs) within the State. GSUs in states without a SAS will be assigned a host MDG by the
       commander of the State’s ANG headquarters.
           4.1.2.1. The commanders of each GSU and host MDG will be notified in writing of these
           assignments.
           4.1.2.2. A copy of the notification letter will be sent to Medical Operations Division (NGB/
           SGP).
           4.1.2.3. Ensures that support agreements are formally established between the host
           MDG and assigned GSUs in accordance with AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures.
           4.1.2.4. Evaluates medical aspects of GSU support agreements annually, serving as a catalyst
           for issue identification and resolution
       4.1.3. Assists line and medical leaders regarding medical personnel issues and programs.
           4.1.3.1. Part of the Health Professions Recruiting/Retention Team within their State. Partici-
           pates in an annual strategic planning process with the HP recruiting team. Coordinates the
           assistance of unit health professionals to unit/regional HP recruiters when requested
           4.1.3.2. Advise line commanders on medical unit commander selections and provide input for
           medical and aeromedical commanders’ officer performance reports.
           4.1.3.3. May serve as a member of medical officer promotion boards.
ANGI40-102 11 JULY 2008                                                                                 3


         4.1.3.4. May nominate members of medical organizations throughout the State for awards,
         decorations and promotions.
         4.1.3.5. Will perform/aggregate annual capability gap analysis data and forward to the
         regional SAS rep on the Human Weapons System Council. (See AFI 48-101, Aerospace Med-
         icine Operations and 2007 HQ USAF/SG3 Policy Letter, for further details.)
     4.1.4. Advises TAG, state headquarters and line commanders, as well as medical organization
     commanders, on ANG medical/health programs.
     4.1.5. Ensures that support agreements are formally established between the host MDG and the
     squadron medical element in accordance with AFI 48-149, Squadron Medical Elements, and AFI
     25-201, Support Agreements Procedures.
     4.1.6. Serves as the ANG medical representative in support of the State Partnership Program
     (SPP), or appoints another senior medical leader from within the state to fill this role.
         4.1.6.1. Coordinates with the State Army Surgeon’s office to ensure medical participation in
         the SPP is joint whenever feasible.
     4.1.7. Serves as the focal point at state headquarters regarding ANG medical capabilities related
     to Homeland Response and medical support to civil authorities.
         4.1.7.1. Coordinates with SASs in other states within the same FEMA region and with the
         State’s Army National Guard Surgeon to identify synergistic medical capabilities.
         4.1.7.2. Serves as liaison between the Joint Forces Headquarters (JFHQ), formerly known as
         State Area Command (STARC) and state ANG headquarters and medical organizations for
         issues related to ANG medical capabilities and requirements.
         4.1.7.3. Works to establish bi-directional cross flow of information and capabilities awareness
         with State Health Departments for CBRNE events
         4.1.7.4. Helps integrate ANG medical representation into community National Incident Man-
         agement System (NIMS) and Emergency Support Function (ESF) #8 functions.
  4.2. SASs will maintain an awareness of issues and initiatives facing each of the medical organiza-
  tions to ensure that appropriate force health protection is maintained throughout the State.
     4.2.1. SASs will assist in the identification and resolution of problems, conflicts or other factors
     potentially limiting an organization’s mission readiness. Such awareness may be developed
     through formal site visits, either individually or as part of a headquarters’ team, or through infor-
     mal methods including telephonic and electronic communiqués, or a combination of both. At a
     minimum, formal or informal visits will be accomplished annually at:
         4.2.1.1. Each GSU regardless of whether or not medical personnel are authorized/assigned.
         4.2.1.2. Each squadron with an authorized/assigned medical element (SME).
         4.2.1.3. Each MDG and Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron (AES) within the State.
     4.2.2. SAS will maintain an awareness of the Medical Regional Readiness Response (MRRR)
     that allows MDGs to forecast and schedule long-term training and exercise requirements.
     4.2.3. SAS will maintain an awareness of the allocation of existing resources, days and dollars
     that support and permeate the MRRR requirements in DoD FUNDS.
4                                                                          ANGI40-102 11 JULY 2008


       4.2.4. The SAS will ensure the Self Inspection Database program (SID) is utilized within each
       medical organization and will assist with leadership initiatives and resource procurement.
           4.2.4.1. Review the unit SID reports and the Flight Deck report at least quarterly.
           4.2.4.2. Follow up on identified unit program discrepancies.
       4.2.5. In conjunction with NGB/SG staff, the SAS will assess unit plans and assist as necessary to
       rectify issues which led to a Health Services Inspection (HSI) overall finding of less than “Satis-
       factory” during the unit’s most recent HSI in the overall score as well as any of the seven major
       scored areas.
       4.2.6. SAS will furnish a written report to the TAG, the Assistant Adjutant for Air (AAG), the
       wing commander, the visited unit’s commander, the host MDG commander and NGB/SG detail-
       ing issues, concerns and recommendations. When formal visits have been accomplished, this
       report should be submitted as soon after the visit as possible (The TAG and NGB/SG should be
       notified in writing if the report will not be submitted within two UTA’s of the visit). When infor-
       mal methods are utilized, the SAS will prepare an annual report. Note: SAS report template can be
       found on the Communities of Practice, ANG Medical Services Professional & Aeromedical Ser-
       vice Division page.
    4.3. Credentials:
       4.3.1. Medical privileges for the SAS will be awarded by the Air Surgeon (NGB/SG). The SAS’s
       PCF will be maintained at NGB/SG. If the SAS augments medical organizations outside of their
       state as a provider, the organization must maintain a privilege “Inter-facility Credentials Transfer
       Brief (ICTB) with a validity period encompassing that time the SAS serves as a provider.
       4.3.2. The SAS reviews the PCF and awards clinical privileges to all MDG commanders within
       their State. In the event of a non-physician commander, the SAS reviews and awards clinical priv-
       ileges to the senior physician in the unit IAW AFI 44-119, Para 6.14.1.1.

5. Medical Review, Certification, and Waiver Authority. As the senior medical officer within the
State, the SAS must be aware of all medical issues in the State. As such all medical issues that may impact
medical readiness of the unit should be brought to the attention of the SAS. In addition, the SAS must
mentor the younger/less experienced medical officers in the State. To meet these goals, the SAS will:
    5.1. Act as the Senior Reviewer for all Worldwide Duty (WWD) Evaluations. This will facilitate sit-
    uational awareness regarding the medical readiness and the quality of medical summaries within the
    State.
       5.1.1. Ensure quality and completeness of cases prior to forwarding to higher authority.
       5.1.2. Provide mentoring to constituent units on medical summaries.
       5.1.3. Brief the TAG/State Headquarters as needed on medical issues.
    5.2. Acts as the Senior Reviewer for all Physical Examination Processing Program (PEPP) cases.
    5.3. Acts as the Certification Authority for cases where the SAS has been delegated Certification
    Authority by NGB/SG.
ANGI40-102 11 JULY 2008                                                                                5


   5.4. Acts as the Waiver Authority for cases where the SAS has been delegated Waiver Authority by
   NGB/SG. All flying and Special Operational duty waivers must be accomplished in Aeromedical
   Information Management Waiver Tracking System (AIMWTS).
       5.4.1. SAS may grant a waiver for members on a 4-T profile to attend inactive duty for training
       (UTA) at member’s home-station, for up to 12 months if the member is expected to return to
       Worldwide Duty Status. Waivers beyond 12 months must be approved by Physicals and Standards
       Branch (NGB/SGPA) after SAS endorsement. (Note: Dental Class 4 is NOT eligible for this
       waiver.)
       5.4.2. A copy of all Waivers granted by the SAS outside of AIMWTS or PEPP must be forwarded
       to NGB/SGPA.
   5.5. Reviews and Certifies medical examinations for transfers of all individuals of non-AF compo-
   nent military transfers. Cases with disqualifying/potentially disqualifying conditions must be sent to
   NGB/SGPA for Waiver consideration.
   5.6. Review and ensure quality/completeness of Medical Evaluation Boards (MEB) conducted at
   ANG Medical Groups. The SAS will act as the Reviewing Officer and sign on block 28 of the AF
   Form 618, Medical Board Report. Once complete, the MEB package will be forwarded to Air Force
   Personnel Center (HQ/AFPC) for an Informal Physical Evaluation Board (IPEB) or a copy forwarded
   to Medical Disability Evaluations Branch (NGB/SGPD) for validation of Return to Duty.
   5.7. Review and validate Incapacitation (INCAP) pay packages. Review and ensure quality/com-
   pleteness of all Incapacitation pay extension packages before the Adjutant General’s Signature. NGB/
   SG, Financial Management (NGB/FM), and Manpower & Personnel (NGB/A1) will no longer review
   packages for completeness. Packages will be forwarded directly to the Chief of Staff (COS) from the
   TAG for approval. (INCAP pay checklist- located on the Communities of Practice, ANG Medical Ser-
   vices Professional & Aeromedical Service Division page.)

6. Assistant to the SAS: The SAS may appoint an officer or senior enlisted person from any medical
organization the additional duty of assisting in the fulfillment of SAS duties and responsibilities.
   6.1. The appointment must have the concurrence of the member’s organization commander.
   6.2. The assistant to the SAS is prohibited from:
       6.2.1. Making credential/privilege determinations.
       6.2.2. Making determinations pertaining to certification and waiver authority.
       6.2.3. Other actions which require determination of a privileged provider.

7. Mobilization and Contingency Missions. During a mobilization and with consent and concurrence
of TAG and NGB/SG, the SAS may augment any state medical organization, any Unit Type Code (UTC)
tasking for which the SAS is otherwise qualified, or HQ NGB/SG.



                                              CRAIG R. MCKINLEY, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              Director, Air National Guard
6                                                                     ANGI40-102 11 JULY 2008


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures, 1 May 2005
AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Planning and Training, 14 Apr 2008
AFI 41-115, Authorized Health Care and Health Care Benefits in the Military Health Services System
(MHSS), 28 Dec 2001
AFI 41-117, Medical Service Officer Education, 23 Apr 2001
AFI 44-103, The Air Force Independent Duty Medical Technician Program and Medical Support for
Mobile Medical Units/Remote Sites, 1 May 2005
AFI 44-119, Clinical Performance Improvement, 24 Sep 2007
AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medicine Operations, 19 Aug 2005
AFI 48-149 Squadron Medical Elements, 28 Feb 2003
AFI 48-123 Vol 1, Medical Examinations and Standard, Volume 1-General Provisions, 5 Jun 2006
AFI 48-123 Vol 2, Medical Examinations and Standards, Volume 2-Accession, Retention, and Administra-
tion, 5 Jun 2006
AFI 48-123 Vol 3, Medical Examinations and Standards, Volume 3-Flying and Special Operational Duty,
5 Jun 2006
AFI 48-123 Vol 4, Medical Examinations and Standards, Volume 4-Special Standards and Requirements,
5 Jun 2006
AFMAN 44-158, The Air Force Independent Duty Medical Technician Medical and Dental Treatment
Protocols, 1 Dec 1999
ANGI 36-2005, Appointment of Officers in the ANG of the United States and As Reserves of the Air
Force, 15 Mar 2005
ANGI 40-101, Annual Training and Planning Requirements and Procedures Local, 28 Jan 1994
ANGI 40-103, Medical Support to Geographically Separated Units (GSUs), 16 Jul 1995
ANGI 41-102, Early Appointment Program for Physician, 30 Oct 1995
ANGI 41-103, Annual Training, Planning Requirements, and Procedures for ANG Aeromedical Evacua-
tion Units, 22 Dec 1995
ANGPD 40-1, State Air Surgeon, 21 Oct 1994

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAG—Assistant Adjutant for Air
AES—Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
ANGI40-102 11 JULY 2008                                                      7


AGR—Active Guard Reserve
AIMWTS—Aeromedical Information Management Waiver Tracking System
AMSUS—Association of Military Surgeons of the United States
AT—Annual Training
DoD FUNDS—Department of Defense Financial Uniform Needs Development System
ESF-#8—Emergency Support Function #8 (FEMA)
FC—Flying Class
FEMA—Federal Emergency Management Agency
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HMDS—Host Medical Squadron
HSM—Health Services Management
IPEB—Informal Physical Evaluation Board
LoD—Line of Duty
MDG—Medical Group
MEB—Medical Evaluation Boards
NIMS—National Incident Management System
PCF—Provider Credential File
PEPP—Physical Examination Processing Program
SAS—State Air Surgeon
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SME—Squadron Medical Element
SPP—State Partnership Program
STARC—State Area Command
TAG—The Adjutant General
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
UTC—Unit Type Code
