BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR NATIONAL GUARD
CHIEF, NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU                                         INSTRUCTION 38-401

                                                                        18 NOVEMBER 2009
                                                          Certified Current 22 November 2013
                                                                   Manpower & Organization

                                                                  SUGGESTION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: NGB/A1MM/OLTN                                      Certified by: NGB/A1M (Lt Col Mary
Supersedes: ANGI 38-401, 12 April 2001                                              Burrus)
                                                                                  Pages: 16


This instruction implements Department of Defense (DoD) 1400.25-M, DoD Civilian Personnel
Manual, Subchapter 451, Award. It gives the directive requirements for the Air National Guard
Suggestion Program. This instruction applies to all Air National Guard (ANG) military and
competitive technicians, active military members including Traditional Guardsmen, and the
Active Guard/Reserve (AGR) members. ANG Title 5 and Title 10 employees fall under the Air
Force (AF) Innovative Development through Employee Awareness (IDEA) Program and should
submit their ideas through their servicing area manpower idea office. The Suggestion Program
rewards Airmen for their ideas on how to increase productivity or work efficiency which saves
the ANG and AF money and resources.

NOTICE: This publication will be used for the Air National Guard (ANG) military members or
National Guard technicians employed under Title 32, United States Code (U.S.C.) 709.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.
2                                                      ANGI38-401 18 NOVEMBER 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This
publication has been updated to reflect changes in guidance and procedures dealing with the
Suggestion Program.
ANGI38-401 18 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                     3




                                           Chapter 1

                                          GENERAL

1.1. Purpose. This instruction prescribes policies and procedures for administering and
managing the ANG Suggestion Program. It also gives instructions on the submission and
eligibility of suggestions, explains evaluation and disposition procedures, and provides guidance
for the payment of awards. Awards are based on the merits of the contribution and benefits that
accrue without regard to race, color, religion, sex, marital status, national origin, physical
handicap, age, political affiliation, or union membership affiliation or participation.
Supplementation of this regulation and establishment of local forms are prohibited without prior
approval from the NGB/A1MM/Operating Location TN [OLTN]. Supplements will not change
the intent of the governing instruction.
1.2. Responsibilities:
   1.2.1. The Chief, National Guard Bureau. The Chief, National Guard Bureau (NGB) is
   responsible for the overall administration, improvement, and evaluation of the National
   Guard Suggestion Program. This responsibility has been delegated to NGB/A1MM/OLTN
   Suggestion Program Manager for ANG suggestions.
   1.2.2. The Air National Guard. The NGB/A1MM/OLTN Suggestion Program Manager
   (SPM) interprets policy and provides guidance to the states’/territories’ Human Resources
   Office (HRO) SPMs. The NGB SPM ensures that the states/territories uniformly apply
   suggestion policy. The NGB SPM develops appropriate supplements, policies, and plans;
   conducts training workshops; decides disputed cases; determines the final eligibility and
   award amount; has the authority to award and reviews direct inquiries from participants.
   1.2.3. State Adjutant Generals. The State Adjutant Generals are responsible for assuring
   compliance with program requirements, promoting and supporting the Suggestion Program,
   and ensuring that prompt action is taken on awards.
   1.2.4. Unit Commanders. Unit Commanders budget for and ensure that the unit promptly
   pays suggestion awards, designate a SPM, and establish procedures to verify that their unit
   implements suggestions.
   1.2.5. HRO SPMs. State SPMs administer and publicize the Suggestion Program; acts as
   second line evaluator; provide advice, assistance, and training to supervisors on the effective
   use and participation in the program; provide training and/or orientation to all technicians
   and military members on how to submit suggestions; ensure that all suggesters are kept
   informed of the status of their suggestion; evaluation is performed within prescribed time
   limits; and ensure that all suggestions meet eligibility requirements.
   1.2.6. Unit Level SPM. The Quality Assurance (QA) Office acts as the Unit Level SPM .
   The Unit Level SPMs (QA) receive, control, and evaluate suggestions; responsible for
   administering and publicizing the Suggestion Program at the unit level; providing guidance
   and acting as the first line evaluators.
4                                                          ANGI38-401 18 NOVEMBER 2009


                                           Chapter 2

          DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY AND SUBMITTING SUGGESTIONS

2.1. Suggestion Eligibility Criteria. Any individual, team, or group within the ANG may
submit a suggestion. An idea does not become a suggestion until a person submits it on an AF
Form 1000, Idea Application, (attachment 2) and it meets the following criteria:
    2.1.1. A suggestion must outline a specific area for improvement, state a workable solution,
    and incorporate expected benefits with documentation of validated savings.
    2.1.2. A suggestion must be the suggester’s own thoughts or a new application of an old
    principle. It may be a patented idea, invention, or scientific achievement.
    2.1.3. Suggesters must sign the AF Form 1000, agreeing that the US Government may use
    their suggestions, once awarded, without incurring further claims by suggesters, their heirs,
    or any other persons.
    2.1.4. Suggestions are ineligible if they are vague, incomplete, deal with generalities or
    opinions, or appear to be a personal complaint or criticism.
2.2. Types of Suggestions. New Suggestions come in three different types, Stand-Alone,
Confirmatory, and After-the-Fact.
    2.2.1. Stand Alone Suggestions. Stand-Alone refers to ALL suggestions which do not have
    a separate improvement process document, such as an AFTO Form 22, Technical Manual
    (TM) Change Recommendation and Reply.                  Stand-Alone suggestions identify
    tangible/intangible savings to the ANG and/or the Air Force. Tangible Savings are savings
    which are measurable or touchable. Stand-Alone suggestions require an AF Form 1000
    completed by the suggester, AF 1000-1 completed by unit level evaluation and a Job
    Responsibility Determination Statement. Suggesters must sign and date. All issues must be
    resolved before submitting a suggestion. When processing Stand-Alone Suggestions, they
    must have a local unit evaluation completed front and back using AF Form 1000 (attachment
    2), AF Form 1000-1, Idea Evaluation and Transmittal, (attachment 3), and a Job
    Responsibility Determination (JRD) Statement (attachment 4) completed for each suggester
    by his/her supervisor. Refer to the Base and HRO Evaluator Checklist (attachment 5).
    2.2.2. Confirmatory and After the Fact Suggestions. The term "confirmatory" refers to all
    separate improvement process documents, which establish ownership and identify tangible
    savings/intangible benefits on the form. Confirmatory Suggestions do not require unit level
    evaluation. All suggestions that affect a Technical Order must be processed as an AFTO
    Form 22, before attaching a suggestion. All issues must be resolved before submitting a
    suggestion. The AF Form 1000 must be submitted within 30 days of receipt. All other
    separate improvement processes, such as the AF Form 1067, Modification Proposal, and the
    AF Form 847 will be considered after-the-fact suggestions.
       2.2.2.1. Suggesters may request waivers to the 30-day confirmatory time limit. The
       request must be in writing to the SPM and identify the person to whom the proposal was
       made. Suggesters must provide the reason they were unable to submit an AF Form 1000
       within 30 days.
ANGI38-401 18 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                  5


       2.2.2.2. Processing Confirmatory Suggestions. Approved separate improvement process
       forms must be attached to an AF Form 1000 for recognition through the ANG Suggestion
       Program. The AF Form 1000 must be submitted within 30 days of date of approval of
       the separate improvement process document.
   2.2.3. All Suggestions are processed through the State HRO SPM. All issues must be
   resolved before submitting a suggestion.
2.3. Retaining Ownership Rights. Ownership is determined by the first suggestion/idea to
reach the final approval authority. The suggester retains ownership of a suggestion for 1 year
after final approval/disapproval action. When a suggestion is withdrawn, the suggester does not
retain the 1-year ownership allowed by this paragraph.
6                                                          ANGI38-401 18 NOVEMBER 2009


                                           Chapter 3

                               EVALUATION PROCEDURES

3.1. Evaluating Suggestions:
    3.1.1. A suggestion that needs MAJCOM, Air Force, or other federal agency approval
    requires a unit level evaluation performed by the QA. The evaluation analysis will state how
    it affects local procedures and identify the next-level evaluator. Evaluators complete an AF
    Form 1000-1 for each evaluation. (see attachment 3 & 5)
       3.1.1.1. Both the evaluator and responsible official must sign the form.
       3.1.1.2. To approve or disapprove a suggestion, the responsible official must have the
       authority to implement the suggestion.
3.2. Meeting Total Processing Time. Good Suggestions directly affect efficiency and
effectiveness of the NGB and other federal agencies. Evaluators must make every effort to
ensure suggestions receive the same timely and positive responses given any other suspended
communication. Decisions must be fully justified or the evaluation will be considered
incomplete.
    3.2.1. Unit Level SPM (QA) Total processing time must not exceed 30 calendar days. Unit
    processing time starts when the unit SPM receives the suggestion and ends when the unit
    SPM notifies the submitter that the suggestion is approved, in concurrent (approval pending
    implementation) status, being forwarded to the next evaluation level, State HRO SPM.
    3.2.2. HRO Level. Total processing time must not exceed 10 calendar days. HRO
    processing time starts when the HRO SPM receives the suggestion package and ends on the
    date the HRO SPM refers the package to the NGB/A1MM/OLTN SPM for higher level
    evaluation. When the suggestion package is returned to the HRO for final processing, total
    processing time of the award or disapproval must not exceed 10 calendar days.
    3.2.3. NGB/A1MM/OLTN. Total processing time must not exceed 60 calendar days.
    Processing time starts when the NGB/A1MM SPM refers the package for higher level
    evaluation.
    3.2.4. NGB/ANG Level Evaluator. Must complete evaluation within 30 working days of
    receipt of notification. When NGB/ANG Evaluator approves the suggestion, notification of
    approval, identification of intangible/tangible benefits and recommends wider use, the
    suggestion will be approved and forwarded to Air Force Level for further approval.
3.3. Determining Job Responsibility. The reporting official/supervisor determines job
responsibility based on the merits of each suggestion. As a general rule, suggestions from unit
level that must be approved and implemented at command or higher level normally are not job
responsibility. The same rationale applies for command personnel when approval authority is at
Headquarters Air Force or higher. (Attachment 4)
ANGI38-401 18 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                     7


                                           Chapter 4

                                           AWARDS

4.1. Awards Approval Authority. State Adjutant Generals may approve cash awards up to and
including $3,000 for locally adopted suggestions only resulting in tangible/intangible benefits or
a combination of both. Cash awards for locally approved suggestions in excess of $3,000 will be
sent to NGB/A1MM.
   4.1.1. All cash awards must be accompanied with a suitable Award Certificate.
4.2. Meeting Eligibility for Cash Awards:
   4.2.1. All Title 32 military members and Federal civilian employees paid from appropriated
   funds are eligible for cash awards.
   4.2.2. Military and Federal civilian retirees are eligible if they submitted their suggestions
   prior to their retirement date.
4.3. Granting Cash Awards. Grant cash awards under the following conditions:
   4.3.1. ANG or Air Force implements the suggestion or the OPR provides written
   certification that the suggestion will be implemented on a specific date.
   4.3.2. If the suggestion is implemented locally, the NGB/A1MM/OLTN SPM may consider
   an award for the local tangible savings or intangible benefits. Consider an additional award
   if ANG or the Air Force implements the suggestion at a higher level for wider application.
   4.3.3. Approved AFTO Forms 22 "Corrections" will receive a $100 award and
   "Improvements" will receive a $200 award unless tangible savings have been noted. NOTE:
   There are no tangible savings with "Corrections."
4.4. Award Types. Recognition may be either a monetary or a non-monetary award, but may
not be a time-off award. All cash awards are subject to applicable tax rules.
   4.4.1. Individual Suggester:
       4.4.1.1. Tangible Savings. Award will be 15 percent of estimated first-year savings, total
       award will be no more than $10,000.
       4.4.1.2. Intangible Benefits. Award will be $200 (limited to one award per approved
       suggestion). EXCEPTION: AFTO Forms 22 "Corrections" will receive $100.
   4.4.2. Multiple (Team/Group) Suggesters. If an individual declines a share of the award,
   that share will be subtracted from the total award.
4.5. Paying Awards. Pay cash awards for suggestions only for actual improvements and
benefits to the Government. Apply awards payment scales equally to all who are eligible for
cash awards. To calculate savings and benefits or award payment, always round up to the
nearest dollar.
   4.5.1. Confirmatory and After-the-Fact Intangible Benefits. The HRO SPMs process the
   awards. Finance awards from the Operations and Maintenance Fund to which the individual
   was assigned at the time the suggestion was submitted. Federal Regulation 5 C.F.R.
   451.103(c)(1) requires funding to be available for paying suggestion awards. Use a SF 50-B
8                                                        ANGI38-401 18 NOVEMBER 2009


    to pay technicians and a SF 1034 to pay AGRs and traditional guardsmen. The unit finance
    office cuts an electronic SF1034 to pay AGRs and traditional guardsmen. This SF1034 is
    transmitted to DFAS in Denver. The HRO SPM sends copy of the SF50 to NGB/A1MM to
    close out file.
    4.5.2. Stand-Alone and Locally Approved Suggestions. NGB/A1 will be responsible for
    identifying funding source for cash awards when the Suggestion benefits the ANG and is
    adopted for implementation described in 4.4.1.1., and cash awards for locally approved
    suggestions in excess of $3000. The HRO SPM sends a copy of the SF50 to NGB/A1MM to
    close out file.
    4.5.3. When another DoD component or Federal agency adopts a suggestion from an Air
    National Guard participant, the benefiting DoD component or other Federal agency funds the
    award. Payment from the AF will take eight to twelve weeks from time of approval.
    4.5.4. If it primarily benefits a particular ANG unit or the NGB/ANG, pay the award from
    funds available to that unit
4.6. Special Recognition Awards. Plaques, trophies, and similar items valued no higher than
$150 may be given in addition to a monetary or non-monetary Suggestion award.
ANGI38-401 18 NOVEMBER 2009                                                              9


                                         Chapter 5

                        ADOPTED AND PRESCRIBED FORMS

5.1. Adopted Forms.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1000, Idea Application
AF Form 1000-1, Idea Evaluation and Transmittal
AF Form 1067, Modification Proposal
AF Technical Order Form 22, Technical Manual (TM) Change Recommendations and Reply
SF 50, Notification of Personnel Action; SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services
Other Than Personal.
5.2. Prescribed Forms. Not applicable.



                              HARRY M. WYATT III, Lieutenant General, USAF
                              Director, Air National Guard
10                                                      ANGI38-401 18 NOVEMBER 2009


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Instruction 1400.25-M, DoD Civilian Personnel Manual, December 1996

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ANG—-Air National Guard
AGR—-Active Guard/Reserve
DoD—-Department of Defense
HRO—-Human Resources Office
JRD—-Job Responsibility Determination
OPR—-Office of Primary Responsibility
SPM—-Suggestion Program Manager

Terms
After—the-Fact Suggestion--Suggestion presented formally or informally to management prior
to submission of AF Form 1000.
Approval—-A submission that has been evaluated and approved for implementation.
Approval/Disapproval Authority—-Any evaluator who has the ability to implement a
suggestion.
Award—-Appropriate recognition for an approved and implemented suggestion.
Confirmatory Suggestion—-Any suggestion resulting from an approved separate improvement
process (e.g., AFTO Form 22), where ownership is established and tangible/intangible benefits
are documented on the separate improvement process form. Approved separate improvement
process form will be attached to AF Form 1000; no evaluation required.
Co—Suggester--A member of a group or team who proposes a new or improved way of doing
business.
Duplicate Suggestion—-A suggestion that duplicates another suggested solution for which
someone holds ownership rights.
Evaluation—-A functional OPR’s analysis of a contribution documented on an AF Form 1000-
1.
Evaluator—-An individual assigned by the functional OPR to analyze the contribution.
Extension—-Written request to referring activity and originating suggestion office asking for
additional time to evaluate or implement.
Group/Team Suggestion—-A suggestion that has two or more suggester’s and is the result of
their combined efforts.
ANGI38-401 18 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                11


Implementation—-A contribution put into use by the OPR.
Initial Presentation—-Presentation of a suggestion which starts the 30 day clock for
confirmatory suggestions.
Intangible Benefits—-Benefits which cannot be computed in specific monetary terms.
Ownership Period—-Time period beginning when suggestion was submitted through one year
after final approval/disapproval action.
Reporting Official/Supervisor—-Normally, supervisor of suggester who determines job
responsibility; may also act as first-level evaluator.
Responsible Official—-An individual at least one supervisory level above the evaluator who, by
his or her signature on the AF Form 1000-1, ensures that the evaluation is valid, meets
requirements of this directive, and is in the best interest of the Air National Guard.
Separate Improvement Process Documents—-Forms used by other Air Force separate
improvement programs (including, but not limited to, Technical Manual (TM) Change
Recommendation and Reply (AFTO Form 22); that may be eligible for submission through the
ANG Suggestion Program for evaluation and recognition.
Suggester—-An individual who proposes a new or improved way of doing business.
Tangible Savings—-Savings to the Government that can be measured in dollars.

Attachment 2
SAMPLE AF FORM 100
12   ANGI38-401 18 NOVEMBER 2009
ANGI38-401 18 NOVEMBER 2009                    13



                              Attachment 3

                       SAMPLE AF FORM 1000-1
14   ANGI38-401 18 NOVEMBER 2009
ANGI38-401 18 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                   15


                                           Attachment 4
                  SAMPLE JOB RESPONSIBILITY DETERMINATION

Suggestion #:                 Suggester:

Job Responsibility Determination Statements

a. If a suggestion can be implemented by an individual without approval of higher authority,
including the reporting official, the action is considered to be within job responsibility.

b. If the suggester's primary responsibility is to make recommendations on the subject matter
contained in the suggestion, the action is considered to be within job responsibility.

c. If a suggestion is developed by a team/group and can be implemented without approval of
higher authority, or if the team has been officially chartered, in writing, to make
recommendations on the subject matter contained in the suggestion, the action is considered to
be within job responsibility.

d. As a general rule, if not addressed above, suggestions from unit level that must be approved
and implemented at command or higher level normally are not job responsibility. The same
rationale applies for command personnel when approval authority is at Headquarters Air Force
or higher.

e. All other suggestions are considered to be outside job responsibility.

One of the following statements must be selected:

______This suggestion has been determined to be within job responsibility.

______This suggestion has been determined to be outside job responsibility. (If the member
cannot implement the idea then it is outside his job responsibility.

_____________________________________________
Signature of Supervisor & Date

_____________________________________________
Type/Print Name, Grade/Rank, Title

This statement is required on all suggestions in order to determine calculation of award:

Intangible benefits awards = $200 for outside suggester's job responsibility, $0 for within
suggester's job responsibility.

Tangible savings = 15 % outside suggester's job responsibility.
16                                                          ANGI38-401 18 NOVEMBER 2009


                                          Attachment 5
                        BASE & HRO’S EVALUATOR CHECKLIST

To make it easier to check the evaluation form, double check to be sure you have answered all
the following questions. If you need help, call DSN 266-4004.

a. Is the evaluation addressed to the next organization needing to take the next action (next
evaluation office) in the TO: this block should be addressed to the next level evaluator’s office.
It should contain the complete address of the evaluator.

b. The FROM: block is the unit evaluator’s office symbol and complete address.

c. If you elected to adopt the suggestion, did you place an “X” in Item 3.A.? Did you check
either Mandatory or Optional? Did you furnish the IMPLEMENTATION DATE?

d. If you don’t have the authority to approve the suggestion, did you mark Block 3D ? All
evaluations going to ANG for evaluation must be marked. Did you address the form to Higher
OPR; e.g., the Appropriate Maintenance ALC/Depot

e. Did you explain in Item 2. the reasons for your decision? Be very, very specific; give as much
information as you can. Don’t use abbreviations without first spelling out what is meant.

f. Is the Tangible Savings shown in 4.A.? Show the cost of savings, provide supporting
documentation if possible.

g. Did you include your printed name, rank, title, organization, and DSN in the Evaluator Block?
DID YOU SIGN IT?

h. Did the responsible official (your supervisor) sign in the Responsible Official Block? Is the
printed name, title, grade/rank, and organization included?

i. All evaluations must be typed.

j. Do you have the Job Responsibility Determination Sheet?


When you have answered “Yes” to the above questions, send package
