BY ORDER OF THE                                     AIR NATIONAL GUARD INSTRUCTION
CHIEF, NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU                                                 36-2501

                                                                             24 JANUARY 2013

                                                                                  PERSONNEL

                                                        GENERAL OFFICER FEDERAL
                                                 RECOGNITION BOARDS FOR GENERAL
                                               OFFICER APPOINTMENT OR PROMOTION
                                                        IN THE AIR NATIONAL GUARD

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: NGB-GO                                                              Certified by: NGB-GO
                                                                        (Lt Col Sonja M. Lucas)
Supersedes:   NGR (AF) 36-1, 8 March 1993                                              Pages: 20


This instruction prescribes the authority and provides guidance for appointment and composition
of Federal Recognition Boards (FRB) of general officers in the Air National Guard (ANG). It
outlines the procedures for conducting such boards to determine the qualifications of individuals
recommended for appointment or promotion in the ANG and as a Reserve of the Air Force and
provides for the extension of temporary federal recognition. It implements appropriate
provisions of title 10 U.S.C., Chapter 1205 and 1405 and title 32 U.S.C., Chapter 3, The Reserve
Officer Personnel Management Act (ROPMA), DoD Instructions 1310.02, 1320.12, 1320.14,
AFI 36-2501, and AFI 36-2504 as applicable to the Air National Guard, AFI 90-301, ANGI 36-
2001 and ANGI 36-2005. Requests for changes to this instruction must be sent to NGB-GO,
1411 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA, 22202-3231. Copies of state supplements to this
instruction must be sent for approval to NGB-GO. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-AF61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction is a complete revision of NGR (AF) 36-1, and incorporates significant statutory
changes as a result of National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2007 and Adverse
Information Internal Review, as well as policy changes directed by the Secretary of the Air
Force, in order to enhance general officer promotion board processes for members of the ANG.
 2                                                                                   ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013


Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION/POLICY                                                                                                    3
      1.1.   Promotion Program Objectives. ..........................................................................                   3
      1.2.   General Officer Federal Recognition and Reserve of the Air Force Appointment
             Eligibility Requirements. ....................................................................................             3
Table 1.1.   Mandatory Separation Date Calculation. .............................................................                       4
Table 1.2.   Time in Grade. ...................................................................................................         5
      1.3.   General Officer Federal Recognition and Reserve of the Air Force Appointment
             Ineligibility Factors. ...........................................................................................         6
      1.4.   Reassignment/Transfer Requests. ........................................................................                   7
      1.5.   Approval of Waivers. .........................................................................................             7
      1.6.   Wear of the Uniform by Adjutants General. ........................................................                         8

Chapter 2—FEDERAL RECOGNITION POLICIES                                                                                                  9
      2.1.   General. ..............................................................................................................    9
      2.2.   Processing Procedures. .......................................................................................            10

Chapter 3—FEDERAL RECOGNITION BOARD                                                                                                    12
      3.1.   General. ..............................................................................................................   12
      3.2.   GOFRB Procedures. ...........................................................................................             12
      3.3.   Information/Documentation Provided to the Federal Recognition Board. ............                                         13
      3.4.   Officers with Substantiated Adverse Information. ...............................................                          13
      3.5.   Promotion Propriety Actions. ..............................................................................               14

Chapter 4—REMOVAL FROM GENERAL OFFICER POSITION AND TRAINING
            WAIVERS                                                                                                                    16
      4.1.   Removal from Position Commensurate with Grade. ............................................                               16
      4.2.   Training waivers. ................................................................................................        16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                         18
ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013                                                                      3



                                           Chapter 1

                           GENERAL INFORMATION/POLICY

1.1. Promotion Program Objectives.
   1.1.1. Officers will be examined without regard to race, religion, sex, color, creed, or
   national origin to determine their general physical, moral, and professional fitness for the
   grade and position for which they are being considered.
   1.1.2. The whole-person concept will apply to validate the officer’s record and matters that
   bear on the officer’s potential to serve in the next higher grade, including such factors as job
   performance, professional qualities, leadership, depth and breadth of experience, job
   responsibility, advanced academic and developmental education, and specific achievements.
   Of these factors, job performance is the most important.
   1.1.3. Federal Recognition Boards are required to certify that officers recommended for
   federal recognition, including those who had adverse information furnished to the board,
   meet the exemplary conduct requirements of 10 U.S.C. §8583.
   1.1.4. Federal recognition of a promotion to a general officer grade will be at the discretion
   of the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF). Federal recognition is extended upon receipt of
   an order announcing federal recognition. An officer will not wear the insignia of a higher
   State grade prior to federal recognition, except as provided in paragraph 1.6.
1.2. General Officer Federal Recognition and Reserve of the Air Force Appointment
Eligibility Requirements.
   1.2.1. The eligibility criteria for general officer federal recognition and Reserve of the Air
   Force appointments to the grade of brigadier general or major general are as follows and, to
   the extent not inconsistent with this ANGI, as outlined by NGB-GO guidance in the NGB-
   GO General Officer Federal Recognition Handbook which is released six months prior to
   each board.
      1.2.1.1. Retainability. Beginning on the first day of the month in which the GOFRB
      convenes, nominees must have sufficient time remaining before his or her mandatory
      separation date for age to serve in an active status, as follows:
          1.2.1.1.1. Nominees for line positions must have at least four years remaining to
          serve in an active status in the higher grade before reaching maximum age for that
          grade.
          1.2.1.1.2. Nominees for Adjutant General and Assistant Adjutant General positions
          must have at least two years remaining to serve in an active status in the higher grade
          before reaching maximum age for that grade or in the case of the Adjutant General
          that position.
          1.2.1.1.3. Nominees assigned to Chaplain and health profession competitive
          categories must have at least two years remaining to serve in an active status in the
          higher grade before reaching maximum age for that grade. If extended under 10
          U.S.C. §14703, the officer must have four years remaining to serve in an active
 4                                                           ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013


           status in the higher grade before reaching separation for maximum age under that
           statute.
        1.2.1.2. Mandatory Separation Date (MSD). Nominees in the grade of colonel must not
        reach their MSD within 90 days after the date the GOFRB convenes. Nominees in a
        general officer grade must not have reached their MSD prior to the date the GOFRB
        adjourns.

Table 1.1. Mandatory Separation Date Calculation.
Grade                          Computation
Colonel                        1st day of the month following the month in which the officer
10 U.S.C. §14507               completes 30 years commissioned service
Brigadier General (GOL)        5 years TIG OR 30 years + 30 days total commissioned service,
10 U.S.C. §14508(a)            whichever gives the officer the longest retention time BUT not
                               past the last day of the month the officer attains age 62.
Brigadier General (AGC)        Individual holds the position of Assistant Adjutant General. Last
10 U.S.C. §14510               day of the month officer attains age 62.
Major General (GOL)            5 years TIG OR 35 years + 30 days total commissioned service
10 U.S.C. §14508(b)            whichever gives the officer the longest retention time BUT not
                               past the last day of the month officer attains age 64.
Major General (AGC)            Individual holds the position of Assistant Adjutant General. Last
10 U.S.C. §14511               day of the month officer attains age 64.
Adjutant General Position      Last day of the month officer attains age 66.
(Major/Brigadier General)
10 U.S.C. §14512

        1.2.1.3. Medical. The Reserve Component Periodic Health Assessment (RCPHA)
        approved as medically qualified by ANG/SG. RCPHAs may not be dated prior to six
        months prior to the GOFRB.
        1.2.1.4. Physical Standards. Meet Air Force fitness standards IAW AFI 36-2905.
        1.2.1.5. Security Clearance. Have evidence of a favorable local files check and possess a
        completed favorably adjudicated Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI)
        indicating eligibility for access to Top Secret information. Current investigation must not
        be older than 5 years. For those nominees who do not already possess eligibility to Top
        Secret information or a SSBI within 4 years and 10 months, a SSBI must be initiated
        prior to the convening date of the Federal Recognition Board.
        1.2.1.6. Senior Developmental Education (SDE) - formerly Professional Military
        Education. Satisfactory completion of SDE is required.
        1.2.1.7. Time in Grade. Nominees must have completed the amount of years of service
        in the current grade as defined in Table 1.2 by the date the GOFRB convenes.
ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013                                                                    5


Table 1.2. Time in Grade.
For Promotion to:                 Years of Service in Grade
                                  (Computed From DOR)
Brigadier General                 Two years
Major General                     One year

       1.2.1.8. Additional Service Requirements.
          1.2.1.8.1. Officer must have served continuously for five years in active status
          immediately preceding consideration by a Federal Recognition Board. This
          requirement may be waived by the Chief, National Guard Bureau, for good cause
          shown, if an officer has been in an inactive status for no more than two years during
          the five year period. This requirement is not applicable to the position of Adjutants
          General or to retired Air Force commissioned officers.
          1.2.1.8.2. Certificate of Eligibility (COE). Officer must have a minimum of three
          consecutive years of satisfactory service in the Air National Guard immediately
          preceding the GOFRB. In the positions of Wing Commander, Chief of Staff, and
          Assistant Adjutant General, the officer must have at least 12 years of active
          commissioned service, of which a minimum of 10 years must have been in the air
          component of an Armed Force.
       1.2.1.9. Must possess a baccalaureate degree or higher from an institution accredited by
       the American Council of Education.
       1.2.1.10. Must possess high moral character and superior professional qualifications.
       Factors used in selecting general officers include: officership, duty performance, breadth
       of experience, intellectual leadership, contributions to Total Force concepts and
       operations, continued contributions to the Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF),
       command experience or leadership in their area of specialty, and developmental
       education. In addition, all general officers must meet the exemplary conduct
       requirements of 10 U.S.C. §8583.
       1.2.1.11. Position Vacancy Nominations. A nominee who is currently assigned to a
       general officer position and is the sole occupant of the position may be nominated as a
       position vacancy nomination.
       1.2.1.12. Certificate of Eligibility (COE) Nominations.
          1.2.1.12.1. The purpose of the COE is to assist in the state’s Force Management Plan
          by pre-qualifying officers for a general officer position and subsequent federal
          recognition, thus reducing the time it takes to promote individuals to the general
          officer grade upon assignment.
          1.2.1.12.2. A COE is effective for two years from the date of Senate confirmation.
          1.2.1.12.3. Possession of a COE does not afford protection from Mandatory
          Separation Date (MSD). (See paragraph 2.2.1.8)
       1.2.1.13. General Officer of the Line (GOL) Appointments.
6                                                            ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013


           1.2.1.13.1. Positions other than Adjutants General or Assistant Adjutants General,
           such as Chief of Staff or Wing Commander, require GOL appointments. Officers in
           Adjutants General or Assistant Adjutants General positions may receive GOL
           appointments if they meet GOL standards and are nominated for a GOL appointment
           by their State.
           1.2.1.13.2. Once an officer is federally recognized as a GOL, the officer can be
           reassigned among general officer positions within a State without loss of federal
           recognition.
       1.2.1.14. Adjutant General Corps (AGC) Appointments.
           1.2.1.14.1. Officers who are assigned to the position of Adjutant General or Assistant
           Adjutant General, who do not meet GOL standards or are not nominated by their
           States for GOL appointments, will receive AGC appointments, if otherwise qualified
           for federal recognition.
           1.2.1.14.2. Officers serving as Adjutants General or Assistant Adjutants General with
           AGC appointments may be nominated by their States for consideration by a
           subsequent GOFRB for a GOL appointment in the same grade.
           1.2.1.14.3. Officers with AGC appointments only may not be reassigned to a GOL
           position.
       1.2.1.15. Citizenship. Must submit proof of citizenship and be citizens of the United
       States IAW 32 U.S.C. §313.
1.3. General Officer Federal Recognition and Reserve of the Air Force Appointment
Ineligibility Factors.
    1.3.1. AFI 36-2005, Table 2.2 and ANGI 36-2005 list conditions which make applicants
    ineligible for Reserve of the Air Force status and thus for federal recognition. The only
    exceptions are for Adjutants General and Assistant Adjutants General.
    1.3.2. In addition to the ineligibility criteria in AFI 36-2005, Table 2.2 and ANGI 36-2005,
    applicants with any of the following are ineligible for federal recognition and Reserve of the
    Air Force appointment. Waivers are not authorized:
       1.3.2.1. AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, describes disqualification
       conditions.
       1.3.2.2. Excessive or detracting tattoos/brands, markings, piercing, and/or body
       modifications which advocate any type of sexual, racial, ethnic or religious
       discrimination that are prejudicial to good order and discipline or that are of a nature that
       tends to bring discredit upon the USAF/ANG are prohibited in and out of uniform.
       Tattoos/brands that would detract from an appropriate professional image while in
       uniform are not waiverable. For more specific guidance, refer to ANGI 36-2002.
       1.3.2.3. Individuals who should be screened from the Ready Reserve IAW DoDD1200.7.
       1.3.2.4. Individuals who were discharged due to hardship, dependency or inability to
       perform active federal service, unless circumstances no longer exist and documentation
       has been submitted with the application for federal recognition that such hardship,
       dependency, or inability to perform active federal service no longer exists.
ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013                                                                    7


       1.3.2.5. Individuals who were discharged for physical disability unless the disability for
       which discharged no longer exists.
1.4. Reassignment/Transfer Requests.
   1.4.1. Adjutants General and Assistant Adjutants General who are federally recognized in
   general officer grades as GOL-qualified are eligible for reassignment to GOL positions in
   grade.
   1.4.2. General officers assigned to GOL positions are eligible for reassignment to Adjutant
   General or Assistant Adjutant General positions in grade.
   1.4.3. General Officers who are federally recognized with AGC appointments may not be
   reassigned to a GOL position.
   1.4.4. Reassignment of general officers serving in Adjutant General or Assistant Adjutant
   General positions who are GOL-qualified to a GOL position must be approved by the CNGB
   so as not to exceed statutory limitations. MSD must be recalculated. No reassignments to
   GOL positions will be made without CNGB approval.
   1.4.5. Individuals (without prior commissioned service), whose initial assignment is as the
   Adjutant General, may be federally recognized and appointed in the grade for which
   qualified.
   1.4.6. A member of the Air Force Reserve appointed to an authorized position in the Air
   National Guard, in the same grade in which he/she holds an appointment as a Reserve of the
   Air Force, is exempt from examination by a Federal Recognition Board. The Chief, National
   Guard Bureau, will extend federal recognition to the Air Force Reserve officer upon receipt
   of State appointment.
   1.4.7. States must forward the following documents to NGB-GO (See NGB-GO General
   Officer Federal Recognition Handbook):
       1.4.7.1. Assignment Order.
       1.4.7.2. For technicians assigned to a GO position not authorized to be filled by a
       technician: A SF Form 50 terminating the officer from technician status within 14 days of
       federal recognition.
       1.4.7.3. For officers assigned to a GO position authorized to be filled by a technician: A
       SF Form 50 assigning the officer to the technician position.
       1.4.7.4. For officers currently serving on active duty (title 10) or full-time National
       Guard duty (title 32) assigned to a GO position incompatible with the continuation of
       such duty: An order releasing the officer from such active duty or full-time National
       Guard duty.
       1.4.7.5. Updated biography, and for general officers, an official photograph that meets
       the GO Federal Recognition Handbook requirements.
1.5. Approval of Waivers. Requests for waivers from non-statutory provisions of this
instruction must be submitted through CNGB to the Secretary of the Air Force for approval.
Such requests must contain full justification citing the extraordinary circumstances involved.
 8                                                            ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013


Waiver requests must be signed by the Adjutant General or Governor and be submitted to the
CNGB, ATTN: NGB-GO, prior to the submission of the nomination packages.
1.6. Wear of the Uniform by Adjutants General.
     1.6.1. At the request of the governor, CNGB may authorize an Adjutant General to wear the
     insignia of a grade one grade higher than the officer’s federally recognized grade, not to
     exceed major general. This authority does not extend to wear of the uniform in title 10
     status. When performing title 10 duty, officers must wear their federally recognized grade
     which is their Reserve of the Air Force grade. All duty outside the United States, its
     territories and possessions must be performed in title 10 status.
     1.6.2. Under this authority, and IAW the restrictions of paragraph 1.6.1:
        1.6.2.1. Officer may wear insignia one grade above current federally recognized grade.
        1.6.2.2. The higher grade may be used for correspondence within the state.
        1.6.2.3. The higher grade may be used for protocol stationery.
        1.6.2.4. The higher grade may be used for parking stickers.
        1.6.2.5. Officer may not accrue seniority in the higher grade.
        1.6.2.6. Officer may not receive pay in the higher grade.
        1.6.2.7. Officer may not earn retirement credit in the higher grade.
        1.6.2.8. Officer may not receive benefits for survivors based on the higher grade.
        1.6.2.9. Officer may not assume any legal authority associated with the higher grade.
        1.6.2.10. Officer may not be issued an identification card in the higher grade.
ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013                                                                     9


                                           Chapter 2

                          FEDERAL RECOGNITION POLICIES

2.1. General.
   2.1.1. The appointment of officers to general officer positions and grades in the Air National
   Guard is a function of the State concerned, as distinguished from federal recognition of the
   State appointment and Reserve of the Air Force appointment in that grade. Federal
   recognition of State appointment and Reserve of the Air Force appointment in that grade
   shall be made without regard to race, color, creed, sex, religion, or national origin.
   2.1.2. The criteria prescribed herein are minimum requirements that qualify applicants for
   consideration by a general officer Federal Recognition Board. Qualification does not
   constitute a guarantee of federal recognition. Federal recognition will not be extended before
   Senate confirmation. However, IAW 32 U.S.C. §308 the Secretary may authorize the
   extension of temporary federal recognition to a person who has been recommended for
   federal recognition by a federal recognition board and is pending appointment as a reserve
   officer of the Air Force.
   2.1.3. An Adjutant General or an Assistant Adjutant General may not be federally
   recognized in a grade above major general. The State Code must specifically authorize and
   provide for Assistant Adjutant General (Air) positions which carry a general officer grade
   (either major general or brigadier general). Executive orders implementing a State Code
   without a specific grade are not sufficient.
   2.1.4. Federal recognition of a State appointment and appointment as a Reserve of the Air
   Force in the same grade are concurrent actions in the general officer grades. An officer may
   not be federally recognized in a grade without also being appointed as a Reserve of the Air
   Force in that grade. The Secretary of the Air Force has authority to grant federal recognition.
   2.1.5. Except for AGC appointments, Reserve of the Air Force appointments are in a
   permanent grade and for an indefinite period.
   2.1.6. Each nomination package for federal recognition of State appointment under the
   provisions of this instruction will be endorsed as follows:
      2.1.6.1. Nominations for the position of State Adjutant General must be endorsed by the
      Governor.
      2.1.6.2. All other nominations must be endorsed by the Governor or the State Adjutant
      General.
   2.1.7. Chief, National Guard Bureau extends federal recognition as follows:
      2.1.7.1. Adjutants General and Assistant Adjutants General.               Date of Senate
      confirmation.
      2.1.7.2. GOL positions. Date of Senate confirmation, if a vacancy exists within the
      ANG portion of the RC GO end strength prescribed by 10 U.S.C. §12004. If no vacancy
      exists at the time, on the date such vacancy occurs. For purposes of promotion as
      vacancies occur, officers are placed on a Headspace list based on their assignment date
 10                                                            ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013


         into the authorized position. When a vacancy occurs, the next eligible officer shall be
         promoted.
         2.1.7.3. Individuals with a Certificate of Eligibility will not be federally recognized until
         assigned to a vacant general officer UMD position, and for line GO positions only within
         the limitations addressed within this instruction.
      2.1.8. Nominees will not meet a Federal Recognition Board until they have met all of the
      requirements for promotion or appointment in accordance with this instruction. NGB-GO
      will review all nomination packages and forward to AF/DPG when the minimum
      requirements outlined in law and this instruction for federal recognition have been met.
      2.1.9. Officers who are Senate confirmed but not yet appointed to the next higher grade may
      not sign on official memorandums or documents as a selectee. In addition, signature
      elements will not reference selectee on official memorandums or documents.
2.2. Processing Procedures.
      2.2.1. The Chief, National Guard Bureau, will announce the scheduled General Officer
      Federal Recognition Board (GOFRB) date as furnished by the SECAF with suspense dates
      for nomination packages due to the NGB-GO.
         2.2.1.1. Completed nomination packages will include at a minimum the following
         documents. Additional supporting documentation, as required, will be announced in
         GOFRB Announcement and the GO Federal Recognition Handbook.
         2.2.1.2. Nomination Letters will be endorsed to the Chief, National Guard Bureau,
         ATTN: NGB-GO.
         2.2.1.3. The Letter of Recommendation must be signed by the Governor or Adjutant
         General, as appropriate.
         2.2.1.4. AF Form 709, Promotion Recommendation, completed IAW AFI 36-2406,
         Chapter 7 and signed by the Governor or Adjutant General, as appropriate.
         2.2.1.5. Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) Report. Award of Top Secret
         Clearance or Top Secret Clearance initiated. Top Secret must not expire prior to the date
         the GOFRB convenes.
         2.2.1.6. Technician Statement of Understanding, if required. Technicians nominated for
         promotion to a position incompatible with continued technician employment must
         include a statement of understanding, signed by the Adjutant General and officer
         concerned, that technician employment will be terminated NLT 14 days following date of
         federal recognition in the higher grade. Technicians who are already GOs who are
         transferred in grade to a position incompatible with continued technician employment
         (e.g., Wing Commander to Assistant Adjutant General) must have their technician
         employment terminated NLT 14 days following the transfer. Technicians should contact
         their State HRO for further guidance.
         2.2.1.7. Approved NGB-SG RCPHA. Physical examination must be completed by an
         active duty military medical facility within 6 months preceding the scheduled date of the
         Federal Recognition Board.
ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013                                                                     11


     2.2.1.8. Mandatory Separation Date (MSD) Statement of Understanding. In order for an
     officer to have his/her MSD held in abeyance and avoid removal from an active status,
     the officer must be assigned to a general officer position and must be on a list of officers
     found qualified for federal recognition (i.e., the list of officers found qualified by the
     GOFRB has been approved by SAF and forwarded to the Secretary of Defense). Until
     both requirements are satisfied, nomination for or possession of a COE does not afford
     protection from MSD.
     2.2.1.9. Adverse Information Internal Review signed by the Investigating Officer and
     The Adjutant General or Governor, as applicable.
     2.2.1.10. Biographical Summary. Reflects the nominee’s military career, civilian
     occupation, military developmental education and personal degrees, and Awards and
     Decorations.
     2.2.1.11. OPRs that close out up to 60 days immediately preceding the board will be
     forwarded no later than 45 days after the close out to NGB-GO.
     2.2.1.12. State Assignment/Appointment Order. (Position Vacancy Promotions Only).
     2.2.1.13. State Promotion Order. (Position Vacancy Promotions Only).
     2.2.1.14. Certificate of current flying status and proficiency in current type aircraft.
     2.2.1.15. Most recent individual flight record printout.
     2.2.1.16. Official Photograph for general officers. NOTE: This photograph is taken for
     the specific purpose of meeting a Federal Recognition Board to the grade of major
     general, it must be in compliance with AFI 36-2903, AFI 36-2532, and the GO Federal
     Recognition Handbook.
     2.2.1.17. Standard Form 278 for general officers who have exceeded 60 days of active
     duty (title 10) during any calendar year since becoming a general officer. [Note:
     Beginning in FY 2012, all general officers will be required to have a SF 278 on file.]
  2.2.2. Records of the nominees will be screened by CNGB for accuracy and completeness
  and to ensure that officers meet the requirements for consideration for federal recognition or
  certificate of eligibility for federal recognition in the general officer grade.
 12                                                              ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013


                                               Chapter 3

                               FEDERAL RECOGNITION BOARD

3.1. General.
      3.1.1. General Officer Federal Recognition Boards (GOFRBs) will be convened at a location
      determined by the Secretary of the Air Force. Normally two boards are held each year to
      consider officers for appointment or promotion to general officer positions/grades conducted
      in accordance with AFI 36-2501 and a SECAF Memorandum of Instruction.
      3.1.2. GOFRBs will examine the officers under consideration to determine which are
      qualified for federal recognition and appointment or promotion as Reserve of the Air Force to
      the grade concerned. Members will serve under oath and are expected to perform their duties
      without prejudice or partiality, having in view the special fitness of the officers and the
      efficiency and effectiveness of the United States Air Force.
3.2. GOFRB Procedures.
      3.2.1. GOFRBs are convened by the Secretary and will consist of a minimum of three voting
      members from the Regular Air Force and the ANG, one of whom must be an ANG officer.
      The board president will be a Regular officer serving the grade of major general and is a
      voting member of the board. The GOFRB will assemble at the time and place determined by
      the Secretary of the Air Force IAW AFI 36-2501 and SECAF Memorandum of Instruction.
      3.2.2. Any officer selected to be a board member who believes he or she cannot in good
      conscience perform his or her duties as a member of the board without prejudice or partiality
      has a duty to request relief from such duty. Such a request will be honored. Any board
      member who believes the integrity of the board's proceedings has been adversely affected by
      improper influence of superior military or civilian authority, misconduct of the board
      president or a member, or any other reason, has a duty to request relief from his or her
      obligation to preserve the confidentiality of the board from the Secretary of the Air Force or
      the Secretary of Defense, and upon receiving it, to report the basis for his or her belief to that
      authority.
      3.2.3. Procedures and policies for GOFRBs are established to provide for the careful
      consideration, without prejudice or partiality, of all officers eligible for federal recognition
      and Reserve of the Air Force appointment or promotion and to ensure the independence and
      integrity of boards by precluding unauthorized communications to boards or board members
      prior to or during the board. An additional objective is to maintain a relatively similar
      promotion opportunity from board to board. In assessing an officer's qualifications for
      promotion to general officer, the board should consider the standards prescribed by the
      Secretary of the Air Force. Generally, these include officership, duty performance as
      reflected in evaluation reports, breadth of experience, intellectual leadership, contributions to
      Total Force concepts and operations, continued contributions to the Air and Space
      Expeditionary Force (AEF), promotion recommendations, command experience, and
      developmental education. Although the above factors are not all inclusive, they do form the
      foundation on which the board considers officers fully qualified to assume the grade and
      designation for which they are being considered.
ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013                                                                13


   3.2.4. The SECAF Memorandum of Instructions will provide additional guidance to assist
   board members in fulfilling their responsibilities.
   3.2.5. No person may direct the board to recommend or non-recommend a particular officer.
   3.2.6. Board reports will be forwarded through the Chief of Staff of the Air Force to the
   Secretary of the Air Force for recommendation for Presidential nomination and Senate
   confirmation.
3.3. Information/Documentation Provided to the Federal Recognition Board.
   3.3.1. NGB-GO will provide at a minimum for the GOFRB to review the following:
      3.3.1.1. The Officer Selection Folder.
      3.3.1.2. Officer Performance Reports (OPRs).
      3.3.1.3. Officer PRFs (AF Form 709), Promotion Recommendation.
      3.3.1.4. AF Form 78, Air Force General Officer Promotion Recommendation.
      3.3.1.5. An official photograph (for promotion to Major General only).
      3.3.1.6. Decoration citations.
      3.3.1.7. Officer promotion selection brief.
      3.3.1.8. Officer biographical summary and training point summary of previous 5 years.
      3.3.1.9. SOUIF (if applicable, IAW AFI 36-2501).
      3.3.1.10. All documents, forms, letters, and endorsements required by the GOFRB
      Handbook.
3.4. Officers with Substantiated Adverse Information.
   3.4.1. SECAF is required by law and DoD policy to present all credible information of an
   adverse nature (herein referred to as “adverse information”) to GOFRBs. For the purposes of
   this instruction, adverse information includes documentation filed in a Senior Officer
   Unfavorable Information File (SOUIF) maintained by the SAF/IG, under provisions of AFI
   90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution. Any officer who is recommended for
   federal recognition by a GOFRB who has adverse information that was not available for
   review by the GOFRB, will have that information presented to a promotion review board in
   the form of a SOUIF. The promotion review board will make a recommendation to the
   SECAF whether to support the officer for appointment to the next higher grade.
   3.4.2. The SOUIF contains:
      3.4.2.1. An executive summary of:
          3.4.2.1.1. Substantiated or partially substantiated allegations of misconduct.
          3.4.2.1.2. Documents describing behavior which reflects adversely upon an officer's
          judgment or exercise of authority.
      3.4.2.2. Documentation reflecting command or supervisory action under the UCMJ, or
      administrative reprimand, admonishment, or counseling.
 14                                                             ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013


         3.4.2.3. The officer's comments or responses to the executive summary(ies) and/or
         documentation.
      3.4.3. If an officer is found qualified for federal recognition by the GOFRB, the Secretary of
      the Air Force, based on the significance of the unfavorable information, or information
      received after a board has convened may:
         3.4.3.1. Initiate action to withhold federal recognition from the officer consistent with
         the requirements paragraph 3.5.3.1 of this instruction.
         3.4.3.2. Support the nomination; however, a summary of the adverse information
         (termed a disclosure) is required to accompany the report of the board to the Secretary of
         Defense. The disclosure will also include a summary of the actions taken by the Air
         Force and the Air National Guard regarding the adverse information, as well as the
         reasons why the Air Force is supporting the nomination. Office of the Secretary of
         Defense (OSD) is required to disclose adverse information to the President and Senate
         Armed Services Committee during the nomination and confirmation process.
3.5. Promotion Propriety Actions.
      3.5.1. States at all levels should ensure that only the best qualified officers are promoted to
      general officer.
      3.5.2. Withdrawal from GOFRB: The State nominating official may withdraw a nomination
      for federal recognition and Reserve of the Air Force promotion at any time prior to the
      convening of the GOFRB. The request to withdraw a promotion nomination should be sent
      to NGB-GO in sufficient time prior to the GOFRB to allow for proper disposition.
      3.5.3. The appointment of officers to a higher grade, who are on lists of officers found
      qualified for federal recognition, may be involuntarily delayed IAW 10 U.S.C. §14311 based
      on investigations and proceedings or lack of qualifications. The procedures set out in AFI
      36-2501, paragraph 11.3 will be utilized in such cases for officers who are on lists of officers
      found qualified for federal recognition (i.e., the list of officers found qualified by the GOFRB
      has been approved by the Secretary of the Air Force and forwarded to the Secretary of
      Defense).
      3.5.4. A GOFRB is not a selection board or promotion board under 10 U.S.C. §14101.
      Unlike active duty and reserve promotions, which are governed by title 10, United States
      Code and require Presidential action to deny promotion to an officer favorably recommended
      for promotion by a selection board, title 32, United States Code, which governs federal
      recognition, does not. Accordingly, the Secretary of the Air Force always has discretion,
      even after Senate confirmation, to refuse to extend federal recognition to an officer when in
      the best interests of the Air Force.
         3.5.4.1. Before federal recognition is withheld, the officer will be notified of the reason
         for the withholding action and given a reasonable opportunity to respond. If after
         considering the officer’s response the Secretary of the Air Force determines the officer is
         no longer qualified for federal recognition, the officer will not be extended federal
         recognition or appointed to the new grade or position.
      3.5.5. A person determined by a GOFRB as not qualified for federal recognition and GOL
      appointment under the provisions of this instruction may not be reconsidered for federal
ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013                                                             15


  recognition and GOL appointment in that grade or position for a period of 9 months. If
  considered for federal recognition and GOL appointment a second time and again determined
  as not qualified, the officer may not again be considered for federal recognition and GOL
  appointment in that grade, but may be considered by a GOFRB additional times for federal
  recognition with an AGC appointment.
 16                                                             ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013


                                              Chapter 4

  REMOVAL FROM GENERAL OFFICER POSITION AND TRAINING WAIVERS

4.1. Removal from Position Commensurate with Grade.
      4.1.1. Under 10 U.S.C. §14314(a) when a general officer ceases to occupy a position
      commensurate with his grade (or commensurate with a higher grade), the State concerned
      (acting on behalf of the Secretary of the Air Force) shall transfer or discharge the officer in
      accordance with whichever of the following the officer elects (or appears most appropriate if
      no election is made):
         4.1.1.1. Transfer the officer in grade to the Retired Reserve, if the officer is qualified and
         applies for the transfer.
         4.1.1.2. Transfer the officer in grade to the inactive status list of the Standby Reserve, if
         the officer is qualified.
         4.1.1.3. Discharge the officer from the officer’s current reserve appointment and, if the
         officer is qualified and applies, appoint the officer in the reserve grade held by the officer
         as a reserve officer before the officer’s appointment in a general officer grade.
         4.1.1.4. Discharge the officer from the officer’s reserve appointment.
      4.1.2. Under 10 U.S.C. §14314(b) when an officer who is federally recognized in the Air
      National Guard solely because of the officer’s appointment as Adjutant General or Assistant
      Adjutant General (i.e., AGC appointment) ceases to occupy that position, the officer’s federal
      recognition shall be withdrawn and the State concerned (acting on behalf of the Secretary of
      the Air Force), not later than 30 days after the date on which the officer ceases to occupy that
      position, shall require that the officer—
         4.1.2.1. be transferred in grade to the Retired Reserve, if the officer is qualified and
         applies for the transfer;
         4.1.2.2. be discharged from the officer’s reserve appointment and appointed in the
         reserve grade held by the officer as a reserve officer immediately before the appointment
         of that officer as adjutant general or assistant adjutant general, if the officer is qualified
         and applies for that appointment; or
         4.1.2.3. be discharged from the officer’s reserve appointment.
      4.1.3. States must coordinate with NGB-GO at least 90 days prior to the removal date to
      complete the necessary documents.
4.2. Training waivers.
      4.2.1. Only the Chief, National Guard Bureau, may excuse a member from any part of the
      active or inactive duty training requirement during a member's retirement year.
      4.2.2. Requests for waiver will be considered only for personal hardship or other
      extraordinary circumstances.
      4.2.3. The officer must submit the request for waiver through command channels to the
      Chief, National Guard Bureau, ATTN: NGB-GO, when it becomes apparent that he/she will
ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013                                                                  17


  be unable to meet these training requirements. The request must reach the Chief, National
  Guard Bureau, at least 30 days before the relevant period of training. Included in the request
  will be a detailed justification for failure to meet the particular training requirements.




                                           Harry M Wyatt III, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           Director, Air National Guard
 18                                                       ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, United States Code, 03 January 2012
Title 32, United States Code, 03 January 2012
DoDI 1310.02, Appointing Commissioned Officers, 8 May 2007
DoDI 1320.12, Commissioned Officer Promotion Program, 27 September 2005
DoDI 1320.14, Commissioned Officer Promotion Program Procedures, 24 September 1996
AFI 36-2005, Appointment In Commissioned Grades And Designation and Assignment in
Professional Categories -- Reserve of the Air Force and United States Air Force, 19 May 2003
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 14 June 2010
AFI 36-2501, Officer Promotions and Selective Continuation, 16 June 2004
AFI 36-2504, Officer Promotion, Continuation and Selective Early Removal in the Reserve of
the Air Force, 9 January 2003
AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution, 23 August 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 24, Application for Appointment as Reserve of the Air Force or USAF without
Component
AF Form 78, Air Force General Officer Promotion Recommendation
AF Form 475, Education/Training Record
AF Form 707A, Field Grade Officer Performance Evaluation Report
AF Form 707B, Company Grade Officer Performance Evaluation Report
AF Form 709, Promotion Recommendation Form

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AGC—Adjutant General Corps
ANGUS—Air National Guard of the United States
ANGI—Air National Guard Instruction
COE—Certificate of Eligibility
DOD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
GOFRB—General Officer Federal Recognition Board
ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013                                                                  19


GOL—General Officer of the Line
JPAS—Joint Personnel Adjudication System
MSD—Mandatory Separation Date
NGR—National Guard Regulation
OPR—Officer Performance Report
RCPHA—Reserve Component Periodic Health Assessment
SOUIF—Senior Officer Unfavorable Information File
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Active status—All reserve commissioned officers of the ANG and the United States Air Force
Reserve (USAFR) (participating and non-participating) who are not on the ISLRS or in the
Retired Reserve (see also RASL).
Active Guard/Reserve (AGR)—Full-time military duty personnel under 32 U.S.C. §502(f) for
the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, and training the reserve
components.
Adjutant General Corps (AGC) Appointment—Appointment received by an officer assigned to
a position of Adjutant General (Commanding General in the District of Columbia) or Assistant
Adjutant General of a State who was not considered by a GOFRB under GOL standards.
Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC)—A combination of numbers and letters used to identify an
Air Force Specialty.
Air National Guard (ANG)—A Reserve component of the United States Air Force consisting of
all federally recognized units, organizations, and members of the Air National Guard of the
States (see State).
Air National Guard of the United States (ANGUS)—The Reserve component of the Air Force
all of whose members are members of the Air National Guard.
Air Reserve Components (ARC) of the Air Force—The Air National Guard (ANG) and the
United States Air Force Reserve (USAFR).
Appointment as a Reserve of the Air Force—Appointment to the permanent federal grade
equivalent to the grade in which the officer is federally recognized as a member of the Air
National Guard.
Certificate of Eligibility (COE )—A certificate issued in accordance with 32 U.S.C. §307 to
individuals found qualified for federal recognition for an office prior to it becoming vacant.
Federal Recognition—Acknowledgment by the federal government that an officer assigned
within the ANG meets the prescribed federal standards for the grade and position to which
assigned. The Secretary of the Air Force has authority to grant federal recognition.
Federal Recognition Board—A board appointed, composed, and convened IAW 32 U.S.C.
§307 to determine qualifications for federal recognition and subsequent Reserve of the Air Force
appointment.
 20                                                        ANGI36-2501 24 JANUARY 2013


General Officer of the Line (GOL) Appointment—Appointment received by an officer who was
considered by a GOFRB under GOL standards.
GOL Qualified—Term used to describe a general officer assigned to an AGC position who was
found qualified by a GOFRB in his current grade under GOL standards.
Military Technician—Federal employees of the military department who occupy technician
positions under 32 U.S.C. §709.
Promotion—Advancement as a Reserve of the Air Force to the next higher grade. Requires
formal nomination by the President and confirmation by the U.S. Senate.
Reserve of the Air Force—The common federal status possessed by members of the Air
National Guard (ANG) and the United States Air Force Reserve. This term is not used to
identify an Air Force component or organization.
SOUIF—A written summary of adverse information about an officer who is being considered
for federal recognition to a general officer grade. The SOUIF may also contain documentation
of the command action taken against the member and the member’s response to the summary
and/or documentation.
State—Includes all fifty States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and
the territories of Guam and the Virgin Islands.
