BY ORDER OF THE                                     AIR NATIONAL GUARD INSTRUCTION
CHIEF, NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU                                                 36-2651

                                                                         22 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                       AIR NATIONAL GUARD SELECTIVE
                                                            RETENTION REVIEW BOARDS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: NGB/A1P                                                              Certified by: NGB/A1
                                                                      (Col Michael E. Flanagan)
                                                                                       Pages: 25
Supersedes:   ANGI36-2606,
              8 August 2012


This instruction implements AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, and describes the
responsibilities and provides authority, guidance, and procedures for establishing and conducting
the Air National Guard Selective Retention Review Board (SRRB) for officers and enlisted
members who are approaching retirement eligibility as defined by this instruction. This
publication does not apply to the Regular Air Force or Air Force Reserve. In collaboration with
the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF),
the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) develops personnel
policy for the Selective Retention Review Board. This publication may not be supplemented.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified
with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated
with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the
appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered
compliance items. This publication requires collecting and maintaining of information protected
by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8251, 10 U.S.C. 833, 10 U.S.C. 8013,
 2                                                                                 ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


10 U.S.C. 501 through 520, 37 U.S.C. 308, 44 U.S.C. 3101, Executive Order 9397 and 13478
(SSN). System of Records Notices F036 AF PC G, Selective Reenlistment Consideration applies.
Vigilance should be taken to protect Privacy Act (PA) and Personal Identifying Information (PII)
when submitting or sending nominations, applications or other documents to DoD agencies
whether through government internet systems (e-mail), postal methods, faxing or scanning. As a
minimum review the following references and take appropriate actions to protect your PA/PII
that contains sensitive or For Official Use Only (FOUO) information before sending: AFI 33-
332, Privacy Act Program, Chapter 7 and 12, DoD 5400.11-R, Department of Defense Privacy
Program; and AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use. Forms affected by the PA have
an appropriate PA statement. Refer to Attachment 1 for Glossary of References and Supporting
Information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This instruction
has been revised to integrate the selective retention policy for Air National Guard under the
Human Resource Management (HRM) Enterprise.


Chapter 1—TOTAL FORCE DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                            4
       1.1.   Overview. ...............................................................................................................      4
       1.2.   Litigation. ...............................................................................................................    5
       1.3.   Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................               5

Chapter 2—PROGRAM MANAGEMENT                                                                                                                 6
       2.1.   Selective Retention Review Board (SRRB). ..........................................................                            6
       2.2.   Criteria for Selective Retention Review Board (SRRB) Consideration. ...............                                            6
       2.3.   Preparation for ANG SRRBs. ................................................................................                    6
       2.4.   Appointment and Composition of ANG Selective Retention Review Boards. .....                                                    8
       2.5.   Documents for Review by an ANG SRRB. ...........................................................                               9
       2.6.   Procedures for Conducting ANG SRRBs. .............................................................                            10

Chapter 3—POST BOARD ACTIONS                                                                                                                12
       3.1.   Actions on ANG SRRB Inputs. .............................................................................                     12
       3.2.   Delays in Separation. .............................................................................................           12
       3.3.   Request for Reconsideration. .................................................................................                13
       3.4.   Administrative Errors. ...........................................................................................            14

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND
             TERMS                                                                                                                          15
ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                      3


Attachment 2—ANNUAL CYCLE OF EVENTS FOR ANG SELECTIVE RETENTION
             PROGRAM                                               17

Attachment 3—COMMANDER’S BRIEFING TO MEMBERS TO BE CONSIDERED BY
             SRRB                                                  19

Attachment 4—INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING NGB FORM 27               20

Attachment 5—SPECIAL ORDER FORMAT TO APPOINT ANG SELECTIVE
             RETENTION REVIEW BOARD MEMBERS                        21

Attachment 6—ANG SELECTIVE RETENTION REVIEW BOARD REPORT FORMAT    22

Attachment 7—MINORITY REPORT FORMAT                                23

Attachment 8—LETTER FORMAT FOR MEMBERS SELECTED FOR RETENTION      24

Attachment 9—LETTER FORMAT FOR MEMBERS NOT SELECTED FOR
             RETENTION                                             25
 4                                                           ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                              Chapter 1

                                TOTAL FORCE DEVELOPMENT

1.1. Overview. This publication provides authority, guidance, and procedures for establishing
and conducting the Air National Guard Selective Retention Review Board (SRRB). Membership
in the ANG is a privilege and confers upon the individual the obligation to serve in the active
military service upon mobilization or emergency, or at such other times as the national security
may require. Inherent in this tenet is the obligation for the ANG as a reserve component of the
Air Force to develop a force management tool that provides States a vehicle to ensure a quality
trained force, stable promotion opportunities for lower grade personnel, and a viable combat
ready force in event of mobilization and/or contingency/peacetime commitments.
     1.1.1. This instruction provides authority for The Adjutant General (TAG) to conduct ANG
     Selective Retention Review Boards (SRRBs) in order to maintain a stable and viable force
     structure.
        1.1.1.1. Under no circumstance will the convening of SRRBs be for the purpose of
        accommodating individual financial gain or at the request of the member.
        1.1.1.2. Board members will be appointed by TAG to recommend the retention or non-
        retention of Federal recognition of officers and enlisted members in the ANG of the
        respective State in accordance with (IAW) the policies and procedures provided in this
        instruction.
     1.1.2. Separations as a result of this instruction will be identified as "other than for cause."
        1.1.2.1. Separation from the ANG, Withdrawal of Federal recognition, and transfer to the
        Air Force Reserve for members not selected for retention will be effected no earlier than
        1 October and no later than 31 December of the year in which the board considered the
        member for retention.
        1.1.2.2. A member can elect to transfer to the Air Force Reserves program, transfer to an
        ANG unit outside the state of the SRRB who non-retained the member, or transfer to the
        retired reserves. If a member initiates a request for reconsideration and it is not approved,
        separation/discharge will be affected as originally established.
     1.1.3. This instruction applies to all members of the ANG who meet the criteria in paragraph
     2.2. without regard to race, color, religion, gender, national origin, or sexual orientation.
        1.1.3.1. This instruction does not apply to general officers and officers or enlisted
        members who do not meet the criteria established in paragraph 2.2. of this instruction.
     1.1.4. Provisions of this instruction do not preclude starting action to separate/discharge an
     officer or enlisted member before the established effective date of separation.
        1.1.4.1. If action is started to separate/discharge a member under any other directive,
        separation/discharge under this instruction will be delayed until that action is completed.
        1.1.4.2. This instruction will not be used in any case where separation/discharge for
        cause, to include substandard performance, would be more appropriate.
ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                   5


   1.1.5. In the event of a partial or full mobilization of the ANG, or in the event members of
   the ANG of the State concerned have been ordered to active duty under Title 10 United
   States Code (USC), Section 12301(a) or 12302, members will remain in active status until
   such time the emergency/ contingency/mobilization authority is rescinded or revoked.
1.2. Litigation. States must immediately advise National Guard Bureau, Judge Advocate
(NGB/JA) through NGB’s Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and Services (NGB/A1)
whenever litigation is brought against a State for actions that result from this program. When the
litigation is completed, a copy of the judgment or final order must be forwarded to NGB/A1.
1.3. Roles and Responsibilities.
   1.3.1. The Director, Air National Guard (NGB/CF) will:
       1.3.1.1. Develop, manage and execute all manpower and personnel plans, programs and
       policies to recruit, retain and sustain a high quality volunteer force through innovative
       and effective enterprise solutions.
       1.3.1.2. Maintain overall responsibility for development and oversight of the ANG
       Selective Retention Review Board (SRRB).
   1.3.2. National Guard Bureau, Manpower, Personnel and Services Directorate (NGB/A1)
   monitors the ANG SRRB.
   1.3.3. State Adjutant General (TAG) implements SRRB policy and procedures to establish
   an effective force management program for units under their jurisdiction.
       1.3.3.1. TAG must ensure that SRRBs are used exclusively as a force management tool
       for retirement eligible personnel to effect needed personnel adjustments to ensure
       continuing mission viability and career expectation of assigned personnel.
   1.3.4. TAGs and commanders are responsible for ensuring personnel subject to SRRB
   consideration receive a fair and impartial review based on the needs of the unit, the ANG and
   the United States Air Force (USAF).
   1.3.5. Each ANG State Headquarters is responsible for implementing this instruction to
   include appropriate administrative support for the conduct of the boards.
   1.3.6. Each FSS is responsible for providing unit and State administrative support of this
   instruction.
 6                                                         ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                             Chapter 2

                                  PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

2.1. Selective Retention Review Board (SRRB). The State Adjutant General (TAG)
determines when the SRRB will convene to review retirement eligible officers and enlisted
personnel.
2.2. Criteria for Selective Retention Review Board (SRRB) Consideration. ANG officers
(except general officers) and enlisted members will be considered under the SRRB if they meet
the following criteria:
     2.2.1. Retirement eligible on or before 31 December of the year prior to the board
     convening.
     2.2.2. Members previously selected for retention under any authority will be included and
     again considered.
     2.2.3. Includes consideration for officers retained under authority of the Secretary of the Air
     Force for any reason beyond their mandatory separation/discharge date based on maximum
     years of commissioned service permitted by law.
     2.2.4. Individuals in Active Guard/ Reserve (AGR) status who have completed 20 years
     satisfactory service toward a non-regular retirement, but have not completed 20 years of
     active duty will be considered (unless exempt by paragraph 2.2.7 below).
     2.2.5. Are not otherwise scheduled to be separated between 1 January and 31 December of
     the year of the board's review for such reasons as mandatory separation/discharge date,
     maximum age, medical disqualification, promotion deferment, or not selected for
     reenlistment.
     2.2.6. Members serving on a Title 10 Statutory Tour who, after meeting the Force
     Management Review (FMR) and identified for retirement or return to state of affiliation, may
     be considered for selective retention upon official notification by NGB Form 833, Force
     Management Review (FMR) Member Acknowledgement of Decision Notification. Members
     commencing a Statutory Tour between 1 January and publication of the board results will be
     removed from consideration.
     2.2.7. Members in AGR status who have or will have between 18 and 20 years of active
     service (sanctuary zone) toward retirement during the calendar year of the board are exempt
     from consideration.
     2.2.8. Officers who have completed at least 20 years of satisfactory service toward a non-
     regular retirement, but have not completed the minimum promotion service time to retire in
     highest grade held are not exempt from consideration (see paragraph 3.1.6).
2.3. Preparation for ANG SRRBs.
     2.3.1. All personnel actions established by this instruction must be completed within the
     same calendar year TAG directs the convening of SRRBs.
        2.3.1.1. The management of the SRRB program requires that the timelines established in
        this instruction be followed as closely as possible. If the timelines must be adjusted, care
ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                   7


     will be taken to ensure the rights of the individual are protected. If a deadline is not met,
     the subsequent deadlines may be adjusted; however, once TAG directs the convening of
     boards, then the boards must meet in May or June of that year.
     2.3.1.2. Regardless of any adjustments, the completion of SRRB events must be
     concluded by 31 December. The member must be provided the same response times
     prescribed in this instruction.
  2.3.2. No later than (NLT) 20 February of the year the SRRBs are convened, each ANG
  State Headquarters will:
     2.3.2.1. Establish the SRRB Roster, a list of all ANG officers (except general officers)
     and enlisted members from the Personnel Data System (over 20 years Satisfactory
     Service) who are to be considered by the SRRB.
     2.3.2.2. Verify all members on the SRRB Roster meet the criteria for consideration and
     review under this instruction and remove names of anyone determined ineligible per
     paragraph 2.2.
     2.3.2.3. Determine the convening dates for the SRRB.
     2.3.2.4. Notify FSSs and Wing/Group commanders of the convening dates; furnish a
     copy of the SRRB Roster to the FSS and each commander.
  2.3.3. Wing/Group Commander Actions
     2.3.3.1. Upon receipt of the SRRB Roster, determine the Expiration Term of Service
     (ETS) of each enlisted member and projected dates of separation for officers.
         2.3.3.1.1. Enlisted member with ETS on or before 31 December of the year the
         SRRB is convened. Commander may extend the enlistment to consider the member
         under the SRRB process or deny extension/reenlistment and separate the enlisted
         member at ETS.
         2.3.3.1.2. Notify the affected enlisted member and servicing                   FSS    of
         reenlistment/extension approval/denial no later than 31 March.
     2.3.3.2. Members under consideration may voluntarily transfer to the Retired Reserve,
     Individual Ready Reserve (IRR), another ANG unit or AF Reserve unit and subsequently
     be removed from consideration at any time.
  2.3.4. Members to be considered will be briefed no later than 31 March using Attachment 3
  as a guide. After the briefing, members will initial beside their name on the list, and the
  commander will sign the bottom certifying that all members on the list have been notified
  and briefed.
  2.3.5. States may obtain relevant personnel information for use by SRRB. Relevant
  personnel information consists of: Personnel Report on Individual Personnel (RIP), and
  Letters of Recommendation.
  2.3.6. Reference Attachment 4. Commanders will prepare NGB Form 27, Federal
  Retention Evaluation/Recommendation, for members being considered by SRRB.
     2.3.6.1. When commander recommends retention, the NGB Form 27 will not be required
     unless directed by TAG.
 8                                                         ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


        2.3.6.2. The NGB Form 27 will be forwarded through command channels to arrive at the
        board's convening location NLT 30 April.
        2.3.6.3. The squadron (or immediate) commander will personally confer with each
        member to advise them of retention or non-retention recommendation.
     2.3.7. Members may submit a letter to the board.
        2.3.7.1. Letter may describe any matter of record believed important for the board's
        consideration.
        2.3.7.2. The letter may not criticize any individual or reflect on the character, conduct, or
        motives of any individual.
        2.3.7.3. All the information in the letter must be accurate and, if called on to do so, the
        member must be able to provide evidence to support any questioned information.
        2.3.7.4. To be considered by the board, the letter must be addressed to the board and
        arrive at the board's convening location NLT 30 April.
2.4. Appointment and Composition of ANG Selective Retention Review Boards.
     2.4.1. TAG will select and appoint boards by Special Order (see Attachment 5) and will
     provide a copy to each individual appointed NLT 20 April.
     2.4.2. The Board Composition will be composed of no less than three and not more than five
     members with voting authority.
        2.4.2.1. Members may be selected from the ANG within the State concerned, from other
        components of the Air Force, or from ANG units in other States with the concurrence of
        TAG concerned.
        2.4.2.2. The majority of the members will be from the ANG.
        2.4.2.3. TAG may not serve as a member of the board.
        2.4.2.4. All board members will serve in their federally recognized grade.
        2.4.2.5. Separate boards will be appointed to review officers and enlisted members.
        However, boards may be appointed to review only certain grades within the officer and
        enlisted grade structure as long as the composition is within these guidelines.
            2.4.2.5.1. Boards appointed to review enlisted members must have at least one field
            grade officer and at least one Senior Non-Commissioned Officer (SNCO) as voting
            board members.
            2.4.2.5.2. A separate board will be composed for Non-Commissioned Officers
            (NCO) whose grade or rank is senior to the NCOs appointed to the enlisted review
            board. The additional board will consist of no less than three nor more than five field
            grade officers.
            2.4.2.5.3. The board president will be a lieutenant colonel or higher; at least one
            NCO from the original enlisted review board will serve as a non-voting advisor to this
            board.
     2.4.3. Board Membership: The members of a board should collectively possess wide
     command, management, and technical experience.
ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                 9


      2.4.3.1. TAG action to appoint board members serves as approval for retention of those
      board members who are in the ANG under the TAG's jurisdiction.
      2.4.3.2. Board members will not be considered by a SRRB during the year in which they
      serve as board members.
      2.4.3.3. It is highly recommended personnel not be selected to serve on consecutive
      boards.
   2.4.4. The president of the board must be senior in grade to all board members and to all
   members being considered by the board.
      2.4.4.1. All voting board members should be senior in rank (based on date of rank) to
      individuals being considered by the board.
      2.4.4.2. A rated member (officer or enlisted) will be appointed to the board when
      considering members on flying status as appropriate to individuals being considered by
      the board.
      2.4.4.3. At the discretion of TAG, the State senior enlisted advisor, regardless of rank,
      may be appointed as a non-voting member of the enlisted review board.
      2.4.4.4. A Command Chief Master Sergeant (CCM) is considered higher ranking than a
      Chief Master Sergeant (CMSgt).
   2.4.5. The senior member of the board (in federally recognized grade) will be appointed
   president and should be a member of the ANG.
   2.4.6. The junior member of the board will be appointed as the recorder, unless an additional
   member is appointed without voting authority to act as recorder.
   2.4.7. All members being considered by an ANG selective retention review board will
   receive fair and impartial consideration, and board members will be free from any improper
   command or other influences in the performances of their duties or as a result of such
   performance.
   2.4.8. Accordingly, no person may dictate, coerce, or attempt in any manner to dictate or
   coerce any vote of any member of a board; or
      2.4.8.1. Influence, or attempt in any manner to influence, the vote by any member of a
      board, except as expressly allowed by this regulation; or,
      2.4.8.2. Censure, reprimand, admonish, or otherwise take any manner of reprisal action
      against any member of a board with respect to any vote cast or other action taken by the
      member in the performance of such duties.
2.5. Documents for Review by an ANG SRRB.
   2.5.1. The board recorder, or an individual designated by TAG, will review all documents
   before the board is convened.
      2.5.1.1. Any letter submitted by an individual IAW paragraph 2.3.7. of this instruction
      that criticizes any individual, or reflects on the character, conduct, or motives of any
      other individual, will be removed with the concurrence of the board president.
 10                                                      ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


      2.5.1.2. Letter will be returned to the originator with the board president's explanation of
      why it was not presented to the board.
   2.5.2. The board will be furnished the SRRB Roster of all members to be considered
   including (as a minimum) the following documentation for each member:
      2.5.2.1. NGB Form 27 (as required).
      2.5.2.2. Relevant personnel information as determined by the State (see paragraph
      2.2.4).
      2.5.2.3. Letter to the board submitted by the individual (See paragraph 2.3.7.)
   2.5.3. Unsolicited communications will not be considered by the board.
2.6. Procedures for Conducting ANG SRRBs. Boards will meet in May or June of each year
and will proceed as follows:
   2.6.1. The order appointing the board will be read by the recorder who will then administer
   the following oath or affirmation "Do you (swear) (affirm) that you (identify each member
   by grade and name) will faithfully, without prejudice or partiality, and having in view both
   the special fitness of individuals and the efficiency of the (State) Air National Guard and the
   United States Air Force, perform duties imposed upon you, that you understand that no one
   may dictate, coerce, or attempt to influence your vote except as allowed by this instruction,
   and that you will not divulge the proceedings or results of this board except to proper
   authority, so help you God?"
      2.6.1.1. An affirmation is the same as an oath except in affirmation the words "So help
      you God" are omitted.
      2.6.1.2. The board members will respond "I do."
   2.6.2. The following oath or affirmation will be administered to the recorder and any non-
   voting board members by the president of the board: "Do you (swear) (affirm) that you
   (identify by grade and name) will faithfully, without prejudice or partiality, and having in
   view both the special fitness of individuals and the efficiency of the (State) Air National
   Guard and the United States Air Force, perform duties imposed upon you, that you
   understand that no one may dictate, coerce, or attempt to influence your actions or
   deliberations except as allowed by this instruction, and that you will not divulge the
   proceedings or results of this board except to proper authority, so help you God?"
   2.6.3. The State Director of Staff, personnel officer, or other individual designated by TAG
   will present a personnel force management briefing to the board.
      2.6.3.1. This briefing will present the personnel force status of the State and a
      comparison among its units along with an evaluation of what is needed to achieve
      mission effectiveness.
      2.6.3.2. As a minimum, this force management briefing should include the following
      items: overall State and unit manning with regard to total authorized and assigned
      strength, grade manning, excess/overgrades, age, retirement eligible personnel, and
      projected programs affecting Unit Manpower Document changes.
ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                11


     2.6.3.3. The ratio of drill status, military technician, and military duty personnel as it
     relates to the above topics should also be a part of the briefing.
  2.6.4. The board will review all documents IAW paragraph 2.5, and determine what future
  benefits can be expected for the ANG and the USAF from the continued service of each
  member it considers. Continued retention must be based on the combination of unit
  commander’s recommendation and organizational force management requirements.
  2.6.5. The recommendations of the board are advisory only. Nevertheless, the board
  members’ recommendations will largely determine which members are retained.
     2.6.5.1. TAG may approve all or some of the results.
     2.6.5.2. TAG can nullify the board results at any time.
  2.6.6. Other than the following, no record of board proceedings will be prepared:
     2.6.6.1. A report of the board's action and recommendation, using Attachment 6 as a
     guide, will be submitted to TAG by 15 July.
     2.6.6.2. Any member of the board who disagrees with the recommendations of the
     majority of the board may submit a minority report using Attachment 7 as a guide.
         2.6.6.2.1. Submit the     minority report    as    an   attachment   to   the   board’s
         recommendations.
         2.6.6.2.2. The board member who disagrees with the recommendations of the
         majority will sign both the minority report and the board proceedings, indicating on
         the board proceedings that a minority report is being submitted as an attachment.
 12                                                      ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                           Chapter 3

                                  POST BOARD ACTIONS

3.1. Actions on ANG SRRB Inputs.
   3.1.1. TAG will review the recommendations of the board, including minority reports, and
   approve or disapprove any or all specific recommendations.
   3.1.2. After TAG's action, notification will be sent by the State Headquarters to the
   appropriate Wing/Group commander (or equivalent commander if there is no intervening
   wing/group commander in the State) and appropriate FSSs or Geographically Separated Unit
   (GSU) personnel office notifying them of TAG's decision.
       3.1.2.1. This notification will include the date of separation/discharge from the ANG for
       each member not selected for retention.
       3.1.2.2. TAG may direct separation between 1 October and 31 December of the calendar
       year of the board provided that the member is permitted at least 30 days in which to
       respond to the notification of non-retention.
   3.1.3. Each member will be notified of TAG's decision by letter using Attachment 8 or
   Attachment 9 as a guide.
       3.1.3.1. TAG or a designated representative signs the letter.
       3.1.3.2. Letters may be modified to meet local circumstances.
       3.1.3.3. Whenever possible, the letter should be personally delivered to any member who
       was not selected for retention by the wing/group or equivalent commander.
       3.1.3.4. If personal delivery is not possible, the letter must be sent by certified mail to
       each member.
       3.1.3.5. Deadline for notification, whether in person or by certified mail, is 15 August of
       the year in which the board was convened.
   3.1.4. The FSSs will maintain a list of those enlisted members that have been approved or
   non-recommended for retention and update appropriate Reenlistment Eligibility (RE) Codes
   in the Personnel Data System.
   3.1.5. Following the decision of TAG, separation/discharge orders will be issued IAW AFI
   36-3209, Separation and Retirement Procedures for Air National Guard and Air Force
   Reserve Members. Individuals may request that TAG (or a designated representative)
   approve an earlier date, but not prior to 1 October.
   3.1.6. Commissioned officers who require additional service in order to qualify for non-
   regular retirement in highest grade held may seek an assignment with the Air Force Reserve
   to meet their tenure minimums.
3.2. Delays in Separation.
   3.2.1. In exceptional circumstances, TAG may retain a member no more than six months
   past the 31 December separation/discharge date for the purpose of recruiting and training a
   replacement, upcoming formal inspection, or other circumstances deemed necessary by
ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                 13


   TAG. TAG is the ultimate authority for any retention decision six months beyond 31
   December.
   3.2.2. Individuals who are hospitalized or pending Individual Disability Evaluation System
   (IDES) processing (AFI 36-3212, Physical Evaluation for Retention, Retirement and
   Separation) for conditions incurred in the Line of Duty (AFI 36-2910, Line of Duty
   [Misconduct]) Determination) may be retained beyond their established separation date
   provided they have received an approved Medical Hold from NGB/SG in accordance with
   AFI 41-210, TRICARE Operations and Patient Administration Functions.
      3.2.2.1. Extension expiration will match the Medical Hold release date.
      3.2.2.2. Justification for extension should be submitted through the unit commander to
      TAG, in letter format and include the Medical Hold approved by NGB/SG.
      3.2.2.3. Presumption of Fitness. The existence of a physical defect or condition does not,
      of itself, justify continuance in service. Refer to AFI 41-210, TRICARE Operations and
      Patient Administration Functions for conditions that warrant retention.
3.3. Request for Reconsideration.
   3.3.1. Upon official written notification of TAG's decision to non-retain, an individual may
   request reconsideration of the decision.
      3.3.1.1. The member must forward the request for reconsideration within 30 days of
      official written notification but not later than 15 September, whichever is earlier.
      3.3.1.2. The request must be forwarded through the member's immediate commander
      and chain of command to TAG.
      3.3.1.3. The member will furnish an information copy of the request for reconsideration
      to TAG and FSS for the sole purpose of informing them that a request for reconsideration
      is pending.
   3.3.2. The FSS will withhold action on the projected separation/discharge pending a final
   decision on the request for reconsideration.
   3.3.3. The request for reconsideration must be reviewed by each succeeding echelon of
   command in a timely manner (3 to 5 days) and a recommendation, with rationale, provided in
   forwarding endorsements.
   3.3.4. Requests for reconsideration must arrive in TAG's office no later than 30 September.
   3.3.5. After TAG has determined retention or non-retention, a letter will be sent to the
   member, the appropriate wing/group commander (or equivalent commander if there is no
   intervening wing/group in the State), and appropriate FSS, and GSU personnel office (if
   applicable) advising them of the decision.
      3.3.5.1. TAG's decision on a request for reconsideration is final and will be dispatched to
      the member no later than 31 October.
      3.3.5.2. There is no appeal beyond the TAG.
 14                                                      ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


3.4. Administrative Errors. If, through administrative error, an eligible member is not
considered as required by this instruction, TAG may waive, for the year in question only, the
requirement that the member be considered under this instruction.
   3.4.1. This action will be taken only when TAG determines that it is clearly required in the
   interest of equity; or that the passage of time makes it impractical to consider or reconsider
   the member for the year in question before the member is considered in due course under this
   instruction.
   3.4.2. In the case where a member was considered by the board, but there is substantial
   evidence this member did not have the necessary qualifying time in service to meet the
   board, the results pertaining to this individual will be null and void, as if the member was not
   considered by the board.




                                             MICHAEL R. TAHERI
                                             Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Commander, ANGRC
ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                             15


                                       Attachment 1
   GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMS

References
DoDD 5400.11, DOD Privacy Act Program, 8 May 2007
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 February 2005
AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy Act and Civil Liberties Program, 5 June 2013
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-3209, Separation and Retirement Procedures for Air National Guard and Air Force
Reserve Members, 14 April 2005
AFI 36-3212, Physical Evaluation for Retention, Retirement and Separation, 02 February 2006
AFI 36-2910, Line of Duty (Misconduct) Determination, 4 October 2004
AFI 41-210, TRICARE Operations and Patient Administration Functions, 22 March 2006

Abbreviations/Acronyms
AGR—Active Guard/ Reserve
AFI—Air Force Instruction
ANG—Air National Guard
ARPC—Air Reserve Personnel Center
EAD—Extended Active Duty
ETS—Expiration Term of Service
FTNGD—Full Time National Guard Duty
GSU—Geographical Separated Unit
IAW—In Accordance With
IRR—Individual Ready Reserve
NLT—No Later Than
NCO—Non-Commissioned Officer
NGB—National Guard Bureau
PDS—Personnel Data System
SNCO—Senior Non-Commissioned Officer
SRRB—Selective Retention Review Board
SRP—Selective Retention Program
 16                                                       ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


TAFMSD—Total Active Federal Military Service Date
TAG—The Adjutant General
USAF—United States Air Force
USC—United States Code

Terms
Air National Guard (ANG)—The federally recognized Air National Guard of each state, the
District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Guam.
Air National Guard Federal Recognition—Acknowledgment by the federal government that
an individual assigned within the ANG meets the prescribed federal standards for the grade and
position to which assigned. Federal recognition is extended by the Chief, NGB for officers and
for enlisted members by virtue of their enlisting in a Federally recognized unit or organization of
the Air National Guard.
Extended Active Duty (EAD)—This is active duty (normally more than 90 days) performed by
a reservist or guardsman for whom strength accountability changes from the Reserve to the
regular military component.
Medical Hold—A method of retaining a service member beyond an established retirement or
separation date for reason of disability processing, for conditions when presumption of fitness
does not apply (D0DI 1332.38, Paragraph E3.P3.5.1.).
Military Duty Personnel—Those members of the ANG in Active Guard/Reserve (AGR)
program and ordered to Full-Time National Guard Duty (FTNGD) under the authority of Title 32
USC Section 502(f).
Military Technician—A Federal employee of the ANG who occupies a full-time position and is
a member of the ANG unit in which employed under Title 32 USC Section 709.
Retirement Eligible—An individual who has completed 20 years of satisfactory service towards
a non-regular military retirement with the last 8 years (6 years for members who separated from
aforementioned components between 5 Oct 94 and 30 Sep 99) of satisfactory federal service as a
member of any category of the Armed Forces, except a Regular component, the Fleet Reserve, or
the Fleet Marine Corps Reserve and meets satisfactory years service in grade; minimum
commissioned service as an officer; or who has completed 20 years of active duty/active duty for
training based on total active federal military service date (TAFMSD) within the PDS.
Satisfactory Years Service in Grade—For purposes of officers qualifying for regular/non-
regular retirement in highest grade held, officer in grades above O-5 must have held current
grade satisfactorily for 3 years to retire in highest grade held. For enlisted grades it must be the
highest grade held for the purpose of retirement. Non retention of any enlisted member, E-7 or
above, with less than 2 years in grade should be rare. Since promotions are based on potential, 2
years is considered minimum return on investment.
Senior Noncommissioned Officer—Master Sergeant (E-7) through Chief Master Sergeant (E-
9).
Separation—Release from the ANG and transfer to a section of the Air Force Reserve.
ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  17


                                         Attachment 2
   ANNUAL CYCLE OF EVENTS FOR ANG SELECTIVE RETENTION PROGRAM

A2.1. The Adjutant General may direct that the post-board schedule of events be compressed
provided that the member is permitted at least 30 days in which to respond to the notification of
non-retention.

Table A2.1. Annual Cycle of Events for ANG Selective Retention Program.
DATE            DEADLINE
20 February:    Deadline for ST HQ to run rosters and verify listings from MILPDS or current
                Personnel Data System.
                Deadline for TAG to set board convening dates.
                Deadline for TAG to notify units and FSSs of convening dates and individuals
                to be considered.
31 March:       Deadline for commander’s briefing (Attachment 3) to members to be
                considered by current Fiscal Year SRRB.
                Deadline for unit commander to make extension/reenlistment decision.
20 April:       Deadline for members to review and verify accuracy of their personnel records
                on the virtual Personnel Center-Guard and Reserve (vPC-GR), or the virtual
                Military Personnel Flight (vMPF) which contain the data the board would
                receive from MILPDS or the current personnel data system. (Members are
                responsible for their data.) If members have not reviewed and corrected any
                errors in their records at this point, the personnel record in system for the
                member on this date will be used by the board.
                Deadline for TAG to select and notify board members.
30 April:       Deadline for FSS to have NGB Forms 27 and letters to the board for the board
                meeting in May or June.
BOARD MEETS IN MAY-JUNE
15 July:  Deadline for board reports to be given to TAG.
15 August:      Deadline for members’ non-selection and selection notification letters to be
                dispatched via first class certified mail (when letter is mailed).
                Deadline for members’ non-selection and selection notification letters to be
                personally delivered to members (when letter is hand delivered).
15 September: Deadline for member to forward request for reconsideration.
30 September: Deadline for member's request for reconsideration. Must be received by
              TAG by this date.
                Earliest date to separate/discharge members not selected for retention.
1 October:      Deadline for FSS personnel system input.
 18                                                   ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


31 October:    Deadline for TAG decision on any member requests for reconsideration.
31 December: Deadline to separate/discharge members not selected for retention.
ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                               19


                                       Attachment 3
   COMMANDER’S BRIEFING TO MEMBERS TO BE CONSIDERED BY SRRB

A3.1. WHEN COMMANDERS CONDUCT THEIR MANDATORY BRIEF TO MEMBERS
OF SELECTIVE RETENTION, THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION MUST BE INCLUDED.
BE SURE ALL MEMBERS INITIAL NEXT TO THEIR NAME ON THE LIST.
  A3.1.1. The Air National Guard Selective Retention Review Board (SRRB) considers the
  selective retention of retirement-eligible officers/enlisted members (use as appropriate for
  addressee) who are deemed vital to the continuity of the (State) Air National Guard.
  A3.1.2. The Adjutant General will convene a board of officers (and NCOs, as appropriate) to
  assist in determining which members should be retained as part of the State's force
  management plan in order to support the unit's mission and meet the needs of the ANG and
  the USAF.
  A3.1.3. You will be considered by a (State) ANG selective retention review board
  convening on (date). (For enlisted members, include the sentence: "If your expiration of term
  of service occurs before 31 December (year), your eligibility for review will depend on your
  commander's decision to permit your extension or reenlistment.) In the event that you have
  been previously considered and retained, this review will be an annual recurring event.
  A3.1.4. You may submit a letter to the board calling attention to any matter you feel is
  important or relevant in the review of your records. If you wish to submit a letter, it must
  adhere to the provisions of the SRRB instruction and be addressed to: President, (State) ANG
  Selective Retention Review Board, (provide complete address), and be received by the board
  before (date).
  A3.1.5. In the event you are not familiar with the specific provisions of the Selective
  Retention Review Board, contact the (servicing) Force Support Squadron for counsel and
  assistance as needed.
  A3.1.6. You are responsible for ensuring personnel records are current and accurate by 20
  April.
A3.2. AFTER BRIEFING, COMMANDER MUST SIGN AND DATE BOTTOM OF LIST OF
MEMBERS TO BE CONSIDERED BY SRRB AND CERTIFY ALL MEMBERS HAVE
BEEN BRIEFED.
 20                                                   ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                       Attachment 4
                INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING NGB FORM 27

A4.1. NGB Form 27 will be completed by squadron (or unit) commander. 2, 3, and 4 are
limited to space provided.
   A4.1.1. SECTION 1. Organizational Manning. Authorized/ assigned numbers will be
   provided by the servicing FSS.
      A4.1.1.1. The application of this data will be directed to determining authorized versus
      assigned in member’s grade.
      A4.1.1.2. Authorized/ assigned numbers applicable to duty AFSC will include all grades
      within member’s DAFSC.
   A4.1.2. SECTION 2. Organizational Forecast. The included elements are associated with
   projected unit mission requirements, should be answered as completely as possible and be
   supported by force management plan.
   A4.1.3. SECTION 3. Organizational Viability. The included elements reflect the
   member’s impact and potential within the organization.
      A4.1.3.1. In addressing these elements, commander’s responses will be objectively
      (overgrade/ excess and SORTs) and subjectively (mission viability, career expectation/
      promotion opportunities and organizational benefits) based.
   A4.1.4. SECTION 4. Recommendation. Must make recommendation by marking one box.
   Comments are optional. NOTE: Sections 2 and 3 are State options.
ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                   21


                                          Attachment 5
SPECIAL ORDER FORMAT TO APPOINT ANG SELECTIVE RETENTION REVIEW
                        BOARD MEMBERS

(State Military Letterhead)
SPECIAL ORDER NUMBER (X).
1. The following officers are appointed members of the ANG Selective Retention Review Board
for the State of (State) to consider retention of all officer personnel listed on the SRRB Roster.
The members of the board will assemble at the time and place designated by the SRRB president.
Authority: ANGI 36-26XX.
(Rank) (First Name, Middle Initial, Last Name) - President
(Rank) (First Name, Middle Initial, Last Name) - Member
(Rank) (First Name, Middle Initial, Last Name) - Member and recorder (if appropriate)
2. The following officers and enlisted personnel are appointed members of the ANG Selective
Retention Review Board for the State of (State) to consider the retention of all enlisted personnel
listed on the SRRB Roster. The members of the board will assemble at the time and place
designated by the SRRB president. Authority: ANGI 36-26XX.
(Rank) (First Name, Middle Initial, Last Name) - President
(Rank) (First Name, Middle Initial, Last Name) - Member
(Rank) (First Name, Middle Initial, Last Name) - Member and recorder (if appropriate)
3. (Use this paragraph only if appointing a recorder without vote.) (Rank) (First Name, Middle
Initial, Last Name), is appointed recorder to the CY (XX) SRRB without vote.
BY ORDER OF THE GOVERNOR
(Signature Block of TAG)
 22                                                     ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                         Attachment 6
        ANG SELECTIVE RETENTION REVIEW BOARD REPORT FORMAT

(State Military Letterhead)
MEMORANDUM FOR (ADJUTANT GENERAL)
FROM:
SUBJECT: Report of (enter Year) (State) ANG Selective Retention Review Board.
TO: The Adjutant General, (State)
1. Pursuant to Special Order (number) dated (date), the (State) ANG Selective Retention
Review Board (SRRB) appointed therein convened at (time) (date), at (location). (Atch 1)
2. The board, acting under oath and having an obligation to select only those members who
possess outstanding qualifications to support a combat ready (State) Air National Guard, has
carefully reviewed the records of every member submitted for consideration. The individuals
recommended or not recommended for retention are listed in Attachments 2 and 3 respectively.
3. The review of the individuals' records recommended for retention reveals them to be qualified
to meet not only the continuing requirements of their present assignments but to have potential
for continued growth in the (State) ANG. They can be expected to make significant contributions
to the needs of the ANG and the USAF.
4. The board adjourned at (time) hours, (date).
(Signature Block of Board President) Attachments:
1. Special Order (Number, Date)
2. List of Members Recommended for Retention
3. List of Members Not Recommended for Retention
4. Minority Report (when appropriate)
ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  23


                                        Attachment 7
                             MINORITY REPORT FORMAT

(State Military Letterhead)
MEMORANDUM FOR (ADJUTANT GENERAL)
FROM:
SUBJECT: Minority Report
Pursuant to Special Order (number) dated (date), I was a member of the (State) ANG Selective
Retention Review Board (SRRB) which met on (date), and I believe the following individuals
should (should not) be retained.
(List of Individuals and Reasons)
(Member's name, grade, and signature)
 24                                                      ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                         Attachment 8
          LETTER FORMAT FOR MEMBERS SELECTED FOR RETENTION

(Appropriate Military Letterhead)
MEMORANDUM FOR (HEADQUARTERS NAME & OFFICE SYMBOL)
FROM:
SUBJECT: Selective Retention in the (State) Air National Guard
1. The CY (year) (State) ANG Selective Retention Review Board has completed its review of
retirement eligible officers and enlisted personnel. After evaluation of its recommendations, I am
pleased to inform you that you have been selected for continued retention in the (State) ANG.
2. You will again be considered for continued retention the next time the Selective Retention
Review Board meets. Selection for continued retention does not preclude applicable military
authority from separating you for other reasons IAW applicable ANG or USAF instructions (add
for enlisted members – “or from denying your extension or reenlistment”).
(Signature block of TAG or designated representative)
ANGI36-2651 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                       25


                                            Attachment 9
       LETTER FORMAT FOR MEMBERS NOT SELECTED FOR RETENTION

(Appropriate Military Letterhead)
MEMORANDUM FOR (Member’s Name)
FROM: (Headquarters’ Name & Office Symbol)
SUBJECT: Non Retention in the (State) Air National Guard
1. The CY (year) (State) ANG Selective Retention Review Board has completed its review of
retirement eligible officers and enlisted personnel.
2. It is my duty to inform you that you have not been selected for continued retention.
Accordingly, you will be separated from the (State) Air National Guard effective (date), unless
you request an earlier date and your request is approved. You should not consider non-retention
as an unfavorable reflection on your military career; nor is it a separation/discharge "for cause."
In determining your eligibility for retention, I can assure you the (State) ANG Selective
Retention Review Board (SRRB) carried out its duties in a most conscientious, thorough, and
impartial manner.
3. You may elect to transfer to the Air Force Reserves program, transfer to an ANG unit outside
of (state), or transfer to the retired reserves. If you do not elect any of these options, you will be
discharged from the ANG and Reserve of the Air Force with no military affiliation or benefits.

4. Should you desire to have TAG reconsider this decision, you must submit your request for
reconsideration within 30 days but not later than 15 September, whichever is earlier. The request
must be forwarded through your immediate commander and chain of command to TAG.
5. On behalf of (The Adjutant General -- insert if letter is not to be signed by The Adjutant
General), the Governor, and the Secretary of the Air Force, I extend to you their sincere
appreciation for your many personal sacrifices and for your devoted service to the State, the
Nation, and the (State) Air National Guard.
(Signature block of TAG or designated representative)
NOTE: Send courtesy copy to state Human Resource Officer (HRO) if member is a Military
Technician or AGR. Letter may be modified to meet local circumstances.
