BY ORDER OF THE CHIEF,                                                  AIR NATIONAL GUARD INSTRUCTION 33-104
NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU                                                                                                             10 MAY 2005



                                                                                     AIR NATIONAL GUARD SYSTEMS
                                                                               TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENGINEERING
                                                                                MANAGER - BASE LEVEL (ANG STEM-B)
                                                                                           PROCEDURAL GUIDANCE

                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: ANG/SC (CMSgt M. Robinson)                                             Certified by: ANGRC/CV (Col S. Wassermann)
                                                                                                              Pages: 49
                                                                                                         Distribution: F

This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Command, Control, Communica-
tions, and Computer (C4) Systems, and is linked to AFI 33-103, Requirements Developing and Process-
ing, AFI 33-104, Base Level Planning and Implementation, AFMCI 33-104, Engineering Installation (EI)
Procedures. This instruction establishes policies and procedures and provides guidelines for Air National
Guard (ANG) Systems Telecommunications Engineering Managers (STEM) in planning the Communica-
tion Information Systems to implement base architecture in support of planned Command, Control, Com-
munications, Computer, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) Systems requirements.
All included references to STEM are understood to refer to the ANG STEM-B unless otherwise stated.
This publication applies to ANG Engineering Installation (EI) units.

Chapter 1— GENERAL INFORMATION                                                                                                                 4
      1.1.    ANG STEM Concept. ................................................................................................                4
      1.2.    Related References. ...................................................................................................          4
      1.3.    Objective. ...................................................................................................................   4
      1.4.    Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................      4

Chapter 2— BLUEPRINT DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES                                                                                                    9
      2.1.    C4ISR Inforstructure Planning System (CIPS) database Base Blueprint. .................                                           9
      2.2.    General Information. ..................................................................................................           9
      2.3.    Continuous Review Process. ......................................................................................                9
Figure 2.1.   Determining Core Building Heirarchy .....................................................................                        12
Table 2.1.    CIPS Commodity and Subcommodity Codes ...........................................................                                13
2                                                                                                          ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


Chapter 3— REQUIREMENTS PROCESSING                                                                                                              14
      3.1.    New Requirements. ....................................................................................................            14
      3.2.    Tracking. ....................................................................................................................    15
      3.3.    Implementation. .........................................................................................................         15
Figure 3.1.   ANG Communications System Requirements Development Process ......................                                                 17

Chapter 4— CONTRACTING                                                                                                                          18
      4.1.    General Process. .........................................................................................................        18
      4.2.    ANG STEM Responsibility. ......................................................................................                   18
      4.3.    ANG/C4CE Responsibility. .......................................................................................                  19
      4.4.    COR Responsibilities. ................................................................................................            19

Chapter 5— TRAINING POLICY GUIDANCE                                                                                                             21
      5.1.    General. ......................................................................................................................   21
      5.2.    ANG/C4CE Responsibility. .......................................................................................                  21

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                 22

Attachment 2— CIPS REVIEW CRITERIA                                                                                                              28

Attachment 3— DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS MINIMUM                                                                                                      29

Attachment 4— VOICE SWITCHING SYSTEMS MINIMUM                                                                                                   31

Attachment 5— DATA SYSTEMS MINIMUM                                                                                                              33

Attachment 6— NETWORK CONTROL CENTER MINIMUM                                                                                                    35

Attachment 7— FLIGHT SUPPORT SYSTEMS MINIMUM                                                                                                    37

Attachment 8— LONG HAUL SUSTEMS MINIMUM                                                                                                         39

Attachment 9— RADIO SYSTEMS MINIMUM                                                                                                             40

Attachment 10— VIDEO SYSTEMS MINIMUM                                                                                                            42

Attachment 11— SECURITY SYSTEMS MINIMUM                                                                                                         43

Attachment 12— OTHER SYSTMES MINIMUM                                                                                                            45

Attachment 13— MISSION STATEMENT MINIMUM                                                                                                        46
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                3


Attachment 14— MILITARY CONSTRUCTION/MODIFICATIONS   47

Attachment 15— DEMOGRAPHICS                          48

Attachment 16— LOGICAL BAN LAYOUT MINIMUM            49
4                                                                            ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


                                                Chapter 1

                                     GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. ANG STEM Concept. ANG STEM is responsible for providing base technical engineering plan-
ning and consulting services, broad-gauge technical solution and broad-gauge cost estimates as required
to support major C4ISR systems. The ANG STEM will also collaborate with Base Communications
Flight Plans and Implementation Office, Base Civil Engineering and other base agencies, in the develop-
ment and maintenance of the Base C4ISR Infostructure Planning System (CIPS) Systems Blueprint. The
Base CIPS Blueprint is a document that identifies the current status of the bases' C4ISR systems, lists
known shortfalls, outlines a future (target architecture) configuration that will eliminate any known or
anticipated shortfalls, and describes how the base can migrate to the target configuration in an affordable,
incremental manner (phases). The ANG STEM assigned to support each base oversees and manages the
engineering planning services provided by Air National Guard Engineering Installation Squadrons (EIS).
The ANG STEM efforts concentrate on development and maintenance of the Base CIPS Blueprint. The
CIPS Blueprint is the long-range communication engineering plan, focused on the economical and
orderly development of an efficient, integrated Base C4ISR transport system. To ensure consistency with
the ANG plans and the CIPS Blueprint guidance, the ANG STEM will be the focal point for all technical
solutions impacting the Base C4ISR information transport system.

1.2. Related References. See Attachment 1.

1.3. Objective. The ANG STEM will provide a responsive means of supporting customer requirements
while implementing Air National Guard architectures at base level. In this context, "responsive" means
better integration of CIPS requirements and implementation efforts; wiser and more efficient spending of
IT dollars; more accurate requirement forecasting (budgeting); better use of engineering and installation
resources; and better resolution of the customer's needs and requirements. The CIPS Blueprint will pro-
vide a transition plan, providing for the orderly modernization and implementation of a cost-effective
base-wide digital information transport system to support voice, data, video, telemetry, etc., (i.e., all
C4ISR needs of the present and envisioned future).

1.4. Responsibilities.
    1.4.1. ANG Command, Control Communications and Computers (ANG/C4) responsibilities.
       1.4.1.1. Pass information concerning downward-directed Air Force (AF) and ANG unique pro-
       grams impacting the base information transport systems and phased implementation schedules to
       the STEMs.
       1.4.1.2. Coordinate with System Program Offices (SPOs) to ensure major programs are properly
       documented in the Blueprint, systems integration issues are adequately addressed, and assess
       impact on related information transport systems and planned requirements.
       1.4.1.3. Consult with the systems engineers and assess the impact of C4 acquisition programs on
       base information transport systems. Assessments include reviewing design specifications for com-
       pliance with the ANG CISA, identifying interface requirements, and recommending any parallel
       actions involving the information transport system to assure new C4 systems can be implemented.
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                                 5


     1.4.1.4. Assist and support the ANG in the formulation of Program Objective Memorandum
     (POM) for base C4 transport systems by providing costs, technical details, technical justifications,
     and solutions. Any assistance in justifying a POM submittal should be limited to the technical
     defense of solutions and costs versus defending the requirement.
     1.4.1.5. Meet and coordinate with National Guard Bureau (NGB) offices, ANG Chief Information
     Officer (CIO) and AF to review requirements and programs for integration. Develop technical
     solutions, identify trends, identify funding requirements, develop funding strategies, and develop
     implementation schedules to be applied ANG wide.
     1.4.1.6. Coordinate efforts of ANG STEMs to ensure consistency in services provided to the
     bases and ensure the Blueprint satisfies ANG architecture and objectives. Measure quality of the
     Blueprints.
     1.4.1.7. Monitor major AF directed programs to develop impact assessments of the programs on
     base level infrastructure, and provide appropriate input.
     1.4.1.8. Accept and process only Communications Requirements Documents (also referred to as
     AF Information Management Tool (IMT) AF 3215, IT/NSS Requirements Document, Communi-
     cation-Computer Systems Requiremetn Document (CSRDs), or any other format historically used
     to establish a communications requirement, reviewed and forwarded/signed by ANG STEM for
     ANG/C4 action.
  1.4.2. ANG Global Communications Division, Engineering Installation Branch (ANG/C4CE).
     1.4.2.1. Develop procedural policy, required directives, and general guidance necessary for
     implementing the ANG STEM program. Provide policy, planning, and funding support for the
     entire ANG STEM program.
     1.4.2.2. Research and compile information from the ANG/C4 staff, ANG STEMs, and customers
     to evaluate ANG STEM processes.
     1.4.2.3. Identify procedural changes and process improvements to improve overall STEM pro-
     gram performance.
     1.4.2.4. Serve as the ANG functional administrator for all aspects of the CIPS. These responsibil-
     ities include but are not limited to STEM/CIPS working group representative and ANG CIPS
     database administrator.
     1.4.2.5. Analyze the process used to develop and maintain Blueprints, develops improvements,
     and writes appropriate policy and procedures.
     1.4.2.6. Act as technical consultant, providing assistance to the ANG in defining and clarifying
     requirements.
     1.4.2.7. Attend NGB and AF meetings as required.
     1.4.2.8. Conduct a meeting at least once a year with the all STEMs.
     1.4.2.9. Work with the ANG representatives to identify any equipment or data that is classified or
     has the potential of being classified when combined with other sensitive information. Evaluate
     Blueprint for content and quality during production and ensure no classified information appears
     in the Blueprint. Review completed documents provide signature and endorsement.
6                                                                          ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


       1.4.2.10. Serve as consultant to the ANG STEM and ANG Bases on matters relating to obtaining
       or expediting Engineering Installation Squadron support services.
       1.4.2.11. Oversee the ANG STEM training program and training support provided by the 38th
       Engineering Installation Group (EIG).
       1.4.2.12. Develop and administer the ANG STEM operation/travel and training budget.
       1.4.2.13. Forecast future Information Technology (IT) infrastructure work and ANG EIS engi-
       neering and installation workload using CIPS Initiatives and Blueprint Phased Implementation
       Directives (BPIDs).
       1.4.2.14. Execute infrastructure upgrade and new infrastructure implementatoin using CIPS
       BPIDs.
       1.4.2.15. Evaluate customer satisfaction with services provided by STEM program.
       1.4.2.16. Task ANG STEM Council to conduct a complete review of the ANG STEM-B Operat-
       ing Instruction Annually and submit any required changes for publication.
    1.4.3. EI Unit Responsibilities to STEM Program. In the ANG the duties of the STEM are a comple-
    ment to the traditional aspects of EI Squadron functions. To assist the EI unit commanders in meeting
    this responsibility, each unit will have not less than one full time STEM position authorized and
    funded for every three STEM bases assigned. It is the responsibility of the EI unit commander to
    ensure STEM duties are carried out and assignment of any additional duties does not detract from
    complete STEM duties. The ANG STEM is the engineering management and configuration control
    consultant for the ANG Base C4 information transport system. The primary responsibility of the ANG
    STEM is to act as a planner and internal technical consultant to the C4 community. The ANG STEM
    provides documentation of C4 information transport systems and defines information transport sys-
    tems implementations/upgrades required to support base infrastructures and mission. The ANG
    STEM is also the base advocate in the communications arena. As a base advocate, the ANG STEM
    will assist in proper channeling of base requirements through ANG/C4 and the larger Air Force com-
    munications community.
    1.4.4. ANG STEM Responsibilities. The ANG STEM is responsible for ensuring base requirements
    are appropriately and efficently planned. As a base advocate in the communications community the
    ANG STEM may be required to:
       1.4.4.1. Review and forward all infrastructure and networking requirements documents for com-
       pliance with ANG standard architecture.
       1.4.4.2. Assist in defining, clarifying, and documenting C4 requirements.
       1.4.4.3. Review base Communication Flight (CF) technical solutions and accomplish technical
       solutions when beyond base CF capability.
       1.4.4.4. Assist in developing and maintaining elements of CIPS.
       1.4.4.5. Document the C4 information transport systems. The C4 information transport system is
       documented in the Base C4 Systems Blueprint. The Blueprint is to include, but is not limited to,
       switching and transmission systems, local area networks (LAN), cabling infrastructure, Radio
       Frequency (RF) systems, video systems, and network management and control. Depending upon
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                                7


     the base mission, the Blueprint may also document flight support systems, radio systems, video
     systems, and security systems.
     1.4.4.6. When necessary coordinate with other communications agencies to ensure that all tenant
     organizations are adequately addressed in the Blueprint.
     1.4.4.7. ANG Units that are colocated with or are a tenant of an AF or Reserve location, the
     STEM will coordinate ANG CIPS Initiatives and BPIDs with the assigned 38 EIG STEM-B. The
     STEM will maintain the CIPS database for the the ANG unit under the ANG Major Command
     (MAJCOM) section. The focus of the STEM is to ensure ANG interests are represented and doc-
     umented in the CIPS system.
     1.4.4.8. Provide projection of information transport systems upgrades. Through the Blueprint pro-
     cess, the ANG STEM must ensure the base Information Transfer System (ITS) supports the future
     needs of the ANG as identified in the defined target architecture. The STEM will also recommend
     information transport system upgrades required to support standard C4 systems. ANG Global
     Communications Division (ANG/C4C) maintains baseline and configuration control of C4 sys-
     tems; the ANG STEM ensures that the information transport system is capable of supporting the
     approved C4 systems.
     1.4.4.9. Assist in integrating communication-computer requirements with the local Operations
     and Maintenance (O&M) activity to eliminate duplication of effort and minimize required
     resources.
     1.4.4.10. Work with the base informations security manager to ensure classified information does
     not appear in a Blueprint. When applicable all classified material will appear in a classified sup-
     plement to the Blueprint.
     1.4.4.11. Work with base Sicure Internet Protocol Routed Network (SIPRNET) management per-
     sonnel and Air Forse Systems Networking (AFSN) to accomplish the SIPRNET portions of the
     Blueprint.
     1.4.4.12. Coordinate with Plans and Implementation for endorsement and base approval of com-
     pleted Blueprints.
     1.4.4.13. Work closely with the ANG/C4 staff to resolve issues involving Blueprint implementa-
     tion and funding.
     1.4.4.14. Assist in developing cost estimates for POM submittals.
     1.4.4.15. Maintain close contact with base through quarterly visits to the base, Video Teleconfer-
     encing (VTC) whenever cost effective, and frequent use of email and telephone calls. Geogrphicly
     Serperated Units (GSUs) will be visited annually or more often as required. In advance of travel,
     the STEM should contact the CF to ensure key personnel will be available, coordinate and com-
     plete an agenda in, in-brief and out-brief Comm squadron commander during visit and file a trip
     report detailing actions completed and suspense actions generated from the visit.
     1.4.4.16. Attend Civil Engineering (CE) design reviews Site Action Task Force (SATAF) meet-
     ings, Facilities Utilization Board and other meetings as necessary. The ANG STEM serves as a
     technical advisor to the Communications and Information Systems Officer (CSO) and may be
     required to propose, defend, and negotiate changes to planned C4 and Military Construction Pro-
     gram (MCP) / Sustainment Repair and Manintenance (SRM) construction projects.
8                                                                     ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


    1.4.4.17. Review non-appropriated funded, SRM, and O&M projects.
    1.4.4.18. Assist in MCP reviews and Base Comprehensive Plan development.
    1.4.4.19. Attend military and commercial technical seminars to stay informed of advances in mil-
    itary and commercial communications technology improvements.
    1.4.4.20. Attend communications conferences and symposiums to stay in informed of changes in
    Vision and objectives of communications and operations leadersip.
    1.4.4.21. Attend technical or managerial training sessions to stay current with communications
    standards, advances in communications technology and improvments in methods of fielding new
    technologies.
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                                   9


                                               Chapter 2

                          BLUEPRINT DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES

2.1. C4ISR Inforstructure Planning System (CIPS) database Base Blueprint. The CIPS database
Base Blueprint is considered a living document. The information is continuously available at https://
MyCIPSaf.tinker.af.mil/CIPS/my.CIPS/ and encompasses war-fighting mission changes, standardiza-
tion, and technological advancements.

2.2. General Information.
   2.2.1. As a collaborative effort, the STEM and Base Plans and Implementation (SCX) obtain informa-
   tion needed to create and maintain the CIPS database. The CIPS database documents the baseline,
   identifies a target base CI environment and the target information transport system. Target architecture
   will be provided to the STEM. Target architectures can be further validated using 38 EIG Handbook
   33-06, Base Information Transport System – Engineering Planning (BITSEP). The CIPS Base Blue-
   print also provides a time-phased, ten years (and beyond) plan that includes all required budgetary
   information for the POM process that summarizes the Initiatives to complete a logical transition to the
   target environment
   2.2.2. The CIPS data set is “facility-centric” and requires facility identification to make nearly all
   associations between related CIPS elements. Therefore, it must be the first step in the data entry pro-
   cess. When entering Base information into the CIPS database, facility characteristics must be entered
   first. The bulk of the facility information can be obtained from the Base Civil Engineer (BCE) Real
   Property person or directly from the Automated CE System (ACES-RP) program. Construction infor-
   mation related to MCP and SRM projects will also be obtained from the BCE. Only summary data for
   MCP or SRM projects is entered into CIPS. The key data is the related CIPS Project Identifier. Deter-
   mination and of identification of facility Core Category is a STEMs responsibility and is accom-
   plished using the flowchart at Figure 2.1.
   2.2.3. The CIPS Base Blueprint provides recommendations on target architectures for each Commod-
   ity that support the Department of Defense (DoD) Global Information Grid. The CIPS Blueprint sum-
   marizes a strategy to support the total force objectives of the ANG, the United States Air Force, and
   the DoD missions through proper alignment of current and future mission requirements with commu-
   nication systems and services. The CIPS Base Blueprint provides summary information for Initiatives
   and Shortfalls for each Commodity area. CIPS also provides a way to associate Initiatives, Blueprint
   Implementation Plans (BIPs) and BPIDs dynamically allowing costs to be viewed by projected Fiscal
   Year (to be funded).

2.3. Continuous Review Process.
   2.3.1. The STEM, must collaborate with the Base CSO and SCX to conduct a CIPS information
   review. The review can be conducted via phone or e-mail but in some cases requires a base visit.
   Re-endorsement is not required for the quarterly review.
   2.3.2. Requirement Tracking. Ensure that all requirements are included in the CIPS Requirement
   Tracking Module (RTM) and the implementation costs are accurate.
10                                                                       ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005



                  NOTE: The STEM will ensure the base CSO understands the
                  STEM is available for technical consultation and guidance.
                  The STEM, CSO, and SCX relationship is the driving force in
                  assuring complete and accurate results of the base Blueprint
                  survey are documented and distributed.

     2.3.2.1. Communications and CE, (Master Plan, MCP, SRM) Data Reviews. Base information
     will be sent to the STEM as it is received or as it changes. This information is commonly prepared
     by the base Plans and Implementation Office. Discrepancies and questions about the data should
     be reviewed and cleared up as soon as identified. This may involve trips to the base civil engineer
     or other local agencies to verify a particular construction program or required date.
     2.3.2.2. Communications Data Reviews accomplished during base visit.
        2.3.2.2.1. During site visits, information in CIPS will be reviewed.
        2.3.2.2.2. Communications Systems Installation Record (CSIR) data will be reviewed during
        facility visits to synchronize with CIPS data. Updates remain a CF responsibility.
        2.3.2.2.3. CIPS Initiative Review: These documents are reviewed to verify that all identified
        and projected Shortfalls are addressed for each Commodity. Included in this review are the
        associations between each Initiative and all related BPIDs and BIPs. The BPID and BIP
        review is to validate required funding year time phasing, scope of work covered and accuracy
        of costs.
        2.3.2.2.4. Compare distribution cable records with CIPS data. Additional cable record infor-
        mation can be included in CIPS as tabular data beyond summarizing conductor counts, utiliza-
        tion rates, bad conductor counts and shortfalls related to each cable. Additional diagrams,
        sketches and other compatible files may be attached to CIPS to provide additional clarity at the
        discretion of the STEM.
        2.3.2.2.5. Review annotated as-built drawings that show all changes to the Communications,
        Computer, Command, and CSIRs affected by communication personnel and contractors.
        2.3.2.2.6. Review all planned Communications Requirements.
        2.3.2.2.7. Discuss and evaluate possible solutions to significant maintenance problems within
        the C4ISR systems.
        2.3.2.2.8. Discuss communication requirements for tenant organizations and GSUs.
        2.3.2.2.9. Review IT Assessments or data call submissions.
        2.3.2.2.10. Land Mobile Radio (LMR) Management. Verify base LMR data with CIPS
     2.3.2.3. Civil Engineering Data Reviews.
        2.3.2.3.1. Review status of allied support for ANG EIS and contracted communications
        projects.
        2.3.2.3.2. Review and discuss milestones for all construction and removal projects impacting
        the base information transport systems.
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                             11


         2.3.2.3.3. Review Tab M-3 (Construction). This data represents the upcoming construction
         programs for the next five fiscal years. Ensure all information is consistent and reasonable.
         The Tab M-3 is a part of the Base Master Plan which shows all future construction projects,
         removals, and/or changes to the base.
         2.3.2.3.4. Review a copy of all CE Tab G drawings for reference in planning routes and mini-
         mizing distribution system conflicts. Tab G-6 would show supporting structures for communi-
         cations utilities.
         2.3.2.3.5. Review DD Forms 1391, Military Construction Project Data, for future construc-
         tion projects, which have a potential impact on communications and/or their structures.
         2.3.2.3.6. Review base (and GSU) unit relocation plans.
         2.3.2.3.7. Review building removal schedule for status of base building removal plans. This
         schedule should align with any new construction (MCP, O&M, etc.) identified by the civil
         engineers.
         2.3.2.3.8. Review "As Built" fundamental layout plan (normally defined as the Tab C-1, Base
         Layout from Civil Engineering). The Tab C-1 of the Base Master Plan will be used for famil-
         iarization with the existing condition of the base
  2.3.3. CI Systems Diagramming. The STEM will develop diagrams and include them in the Blueprint
  to describe the current and target CI transport systems. Suggested diagrams might include:
     2.3.3.1. A drawing of the current target information transport system will show all Information
     Transfer Node (ITN) locations, connectivity medium between ITN and End Building Node (EBN)
     equipment. See Attachment 16.
     2.3.3.2. A drawing of the proposed target information transport system will show all ITN loca-
     tions, connectivity medium between ITNs, and node equipment.
     2.3.3.3. A drawing of the RF Interference zones overlayed on the Base Layout.
  2.3.4. CIPS Commodity Codes. See Table 2.1.
12                                                ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


Figure 2.1. Determining Core Building Heirarchy
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                                13


Table 2.1. CIPS Commodity and Subcommodity Codes
            Commodity                     Code                   Commodity                     Code
Distribution System                        DS     Network Control Center                       NCC
                            Coax Cable    COAX                                 Core Server    CSVR
                          Copper Cable     COP                                     Firewall    FW
                      Fiber Optic Cable    FOC                       Information Assurance      IA
       Maintenance Hole Duct System       MDS     Long Haul Systems                            LHS
                          Wireless Link   WLINK                          Dedicated Circuits   DCKT
Voice Switching Systems                    VSS                         Line of Sight Radios    LSR
  Customer Premise Equipment/Phones        CPE                                    NIPRNet      NIPR
                           Key System      KS                      Over the Horizon Radios     OHR
        Main Distribution Frame (MC)      MDF                                SCI Networks     SCINET
                          Voice Switch     PBX                                    SIPRNet      SIPR
                Remote Voice Switch        RST              Technical Control Equipment        TCE
Secure Customer Premise Equip/Phones      SCPE    Radio Systems                                RS
                 Secure Voice Switch      SPBX               Ground to Air Radio System        GAR
Flight Support Systems                     FSS                          Land Mobile Radio      LMR
  Voice Switching System (e.g., ETVS,     FVSS          Personal Wireless Communication       PWCS
         VCSS, STVS, J-314, DVRS)                                               System
 NAVAIDS (ILS, TACAN, VOR, MLS)           NAV     Video System                                 VS
 Radar (ASR, PAR, Canopy, Consoles)       RAD                Closed Circuit TV/Cable TV       CCTV
                               Weather     WX                                  Secure VTC     SVTV
Data Systems                              DAT             Video Teleconferencing System        VTC
                            AIS Server    ASVR    Security Systems                             SEC
                      BAN Equipment       BAN                         Entry Control System     ECS
                            Computers     COMP                   Intrusion Detection System    IDS
                       LAN Equipment      LAN                Monitor Control/Annuciator        MCA
                        Premise Wiring     PW                           Video Surveillance    SURV
       Secure BAN Equipment/Crypto        SBAN    Other Systems                                OS
         Secure LAN Equipment/PDS         SLAN                                        CSA      CSA
                         Wireless LAN     WLAN                       Maintenance Contract     MCON
                                                                 O&M Contract (By C4CE)        OMC
                                                                            Other Services    OSVS
                                                                 Giant Voice/Public Adress     PA
14                                                                            ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


                                                 Chapter 3

                                   REQUIREMENTS PROCESSING

3.1. New Requirements.
     3.1.1. In accordance with AFI 33-101, Communications and Information Management Guidance and
     Responsibilities, Paragraph 4.2., all requirements impacting the base information transport system
     will be reviewed by the STEM for architecture compliance, regardless of the initial recipient’s office
     or the type of action required. Exceptions to these requirements include manning assists, wartime
     requests/taskings, small adds moves or changes to the first 400 feet delivery infrastructure that do not
     require additional equipment, and Automated Data Processing Equipment (ADPE) requirements that
     meet Infostructure Technical Reference Model (iTRM) specifications or are purchsed through
     AFWay.
     3.1.2. Funding Strategies.
        3.1.2.1. Periodically work with base CF to have unfunded requirements included in Base
        unfunded submissions.
        3.1.2.2. The STEM will coordinate with ANG/C4 to ensure that requirements of Base level
        funded initiatives do not conflict with any known MAJCOM or ANG/C4 downward directed pro-
        gram initiatives before approving and returning to the Base for CF implementation.
     3.1.3. Processing Technical Solutions:
        3.1.3.1. For a CF provided technical solution and costing review. The STEM will ensure the tech-
        nical solution and cost estimate (broad gauge) information is on any communication requirement
        sent to ANG/C4C for approval. The STEM updates the CIPS by creating a BIP/BPID for the
        requirement before forwarding to ANG/C4C.
        3.1.3.2. For a CF requested technical solution and costing. The STEM will research with Func-
        tional Area Experts (FAE) to develop an appropriate technical solution and (broad gauge) cost.
        The technical solution and costing is returned to the CF requestor for approval. Once the commu-
        nication requirement is approved by the CF, the STEM updates the CIPS by creating a BIP/BPID
        for the requirement before forwarding to ANG/C4C.
        3.1.3.3. For a request for detailed technical solution and cost estimate (List of Materials (LOM)
        development and manday/manhour estimates). The STEM may choose to use either the EI support
        or contractor method. The EI support method will be selected whenever possible
            3.1.3.3.1. The completed requirement will be reviewed to ensure all information is correct and
            is added to CIPS for the Base as a Broad Gauge Costing, showing the date sent out in the “For-
            warded to FAE” milestone date. Any pertinent notes that the assigned engineer will need to
            accomplish the task in accordance with (IAW) the Base Blueprint, should also be added.
            3.1.3.3.2. If EI method is selected, the requirement will be first offered to the STEM hosting
            EI unit and will be forwarded to Total Force Group (TFG) for EI unit selection by the TFG
            representative only if the hosting EI unit cannot support the requirement within required time
            constraints
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                                   15


          3.1.3.3.3. When no EI unit can complete the work, then the contractor method is selected. The
          requirement will always be forwarded to the TFG for contractor implementation unless the the
          funding is executed at the base level rather than through ANG/C4CE.
          3.1.3.3.4. When the technical solution and cost estimate is complete, it is returned to the
          STEM. The STEM reviews the information, updatse the CIPS (updating the appropriate mile-
          stone date) and forwards the information to the customer.
      3.1.3.4. For a communications requirement documented in the CIPS and already approved for
      implementation (engineering and/or installation), then a BIP and BPID will be generated to the
      funding agency, normally the TFG or the Base CF.
          3.1.3.4.1. During the engineering site survey, costs will be compared to the broad gauge costs
          to ensure the project(s) can be completed within the costs shown on the BPID. Funding adjust-
          ments or technical issues should be jointly worked between the C4CE, the EI unit, the STEM
          and the customer.
          3.1.3.4.2. If the requirement is selected for ANG or 738 EIS assignment, it is an ANG/C4CE
          responsibility to accomplish the production-planning. If there are no issues from the initial site
          survey (e.g., Project Support Agreement (PSA) concurrence is not signed), the program imple-
          mentation may proceed. Once funding is allocated, the project will be sent to the ANG/C4CE
          TFG representative for inclusion in the ANG Master Work Plan (MWP) for installation in the
          appropriate Fiscal Year.
          3.1.3.4.3. To assure a smooth transition from planning to the implementation phase, the Base
          SCX office should work closely with the STEM and the ANG/C4CE TFG representative to
          ensure EI installation teams or contractor installers are available as the actions agreed upon in
          the PSA are nearing completion and project LOM delivery dates approach.
          3.1.3.4.4. TFG program implementation is the responsibility of the ANG/C4CE.

3.2. Tracking.
   3.2.1. The STEM will coordinate with ANG/C4C to ensure upward directed requirements are
   upchannelled to ANG/C4C as stipulated in AFI 33-103/ANG Sup 1, Requirements Developing and
   Processing. In addition to adding the requirements to CIPS, STEMs may also (optionally) track
   requirements with local tools for individual STEM suspense management.
   3.2.2. The STEM will ensure that requirements affecting overall Base infrastructure that are to be
   funded in a future fiscal year or phased over multiple fiscal years, are entered into the CIPS as BIPS
   associated to BPIDs so proper POM inclusion can be carried out.

3.3. Implementation.
   3.3.1. To initiate a phase or portion of a phase of a CIPS using ANG EI resources the STEM will con-
   tact the EI unit TFG representative and provide a BPID for the scope of work being initiated.
      3.3.1.1. Engineering Implementation Phase. Each October, all BPID requirements for the next
      (not current) Fiscal Year will be submitted to the TFG to be engineered. If funds are available, the
      initiative is executed using TFG processes for engineering. If no organic EI engineering capability
      is used to implement the BPID, the ANG/C4CE will implement a solution using a contracting
      method. If the engineering work is contracted, the initiating STEM will be advised by ANG/C4CE
16                                                                           ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


        of the decision and if necessary directed to work with the Base CF to provide an engineering State-
        ment of Work (SOW) for the BPID being processed.
        3.3.1.2. Installation Implementation Phase. After engineering is complete, the STEM will resub-
        mit BPID to TFG for installation. If funds are available, the initiative is executed through the TFG
        for installation. If no organic EI installation capability is used to implement the BPID, ANG/C4C
        may implement a solution using a contractor. If the engineering work is contracted, the initiating
        STEM will be advised by ANG/C4CE of the decision and if necessary directed to work with the
        Base CF to provide an installation SOW for the BPID being processed.
     3.3.2. The STEM will maintain general oversight of requirements and on-going projects. This may
     include evaluating proposed contract modifications and recommending approval/disapproval to ANG/
     C4C or monitoring Engineering Change Request Authorization (ECRA) actions during BPID execu-
     tion.
     3.3.3. The STEM will also ensure CIPS Blueprint updates are accomplished as projects are com-
     pleted.
Figure 3.1. ANG Communications System Requirements Development Process




                                                                         ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005
                                                                         17
18                                                                           ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


                                                 Chapter 4

                                            CONTRACTING

4.1. General Process. Anyone wishing to use, or directed by the TFG to use, contract support should
contact a contracting office (IAW DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation, and the Federal Acquisition
Regulation {FAR}). You will be referred to the appropriate office where details will be outlined concern-
ing your particular requirement. The contracting office issuing the contract may appoint a Contracting
Office Representative (COR). The COR will usually be a member of the communications unit that origi-
nated the requirement or the STEM. Since the ANG uses more than one type of contract, unique reporting
techniques vary from contract to contract. For Request for Proposal (RFP)/technical solution and Request
for Quote (RFQ)/cost estimates, the following paragraphs provide general guidance for processing Com-
munications Requirements
     4.1.1. The STEM and base CSO decide whether technical solution and cost estimates will be accom-
     plished and pursued in-house, by an EI engineer or by a contractor. To avoid unauthorized commit-
     ments, consult with a contracting officer (CO) to avoid any statements that may be construed by a con
     tractor or vendor as a commitment or intention to purchase from any vendor. ANG EI resources, when
     applicable, shall always be considered first when an in-house solution is ruled out. Contracts are only
     to be used if ANG EI resources are not available.
     4.1.2. The assigned engineer estimates time required to perform costing RFQ and, if unable to meet
     the contract requirement, notifies the CO or COR to negotiate a delivery date. Only the CO or COR
     may negotiate with the contractor or modify the terms of the contract.
     4.1.3. The STEM reviews the costing for acceptance or rework. If STEM-B determines rework is nec-
     essary, it is returned to the assigned engineer. If not required, the STEM returns costing to customer
     and ANG/C4CE.


                     NOTE: Timely and proper routing of contractor documents is
                     very important to the success of tech solution and costing
                     efforts (via contractor use). It is extremely important that the
                     STEM and host contracting office closely coordinate the
                     activities on-going in the process.

4.2. ANG STEM Responsibility. When a contractor conducts research to establish an initial costing for
a CIPS BIP/BPID, it is the STEM responsibility to:
     4.2.1. Update the milestone data in the CIPS.
     4.2.2. Provide the ANG/C4CE with the BPID/BIP and any additional information that is necessary to
     complete processing.
     4.2.3. Develop or review SOW.
        4.2.3.1. The STEM will ensure deliverables are clearly stated and the installed product complies
        with established architectural standards.
        4.2.3.2. It is also imperative that the deliverables include completion of Quality Assurance Eval-
        uation (QAE), completion and documentation of all required performance testing, and documen-
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                                      19


       tation required for CSIR program updates (IAW AFI 21-404, Developing and Maintaining
       Communications and Information Systems Installation Records).
       4.2.3.3. When justified by extensive scope or complexity, Project Management should be
       included in the deliverables list.
       4.2.3.4. Include provisions to address how to handle failure to perform to the terms of the con-
       tract, whether quality of work or timeliness of delivery related. This may take the form of fines,
       withholding portion of payment, legal action, etc. Contacting office will determine the appropiate
       language to address this issue.

4.3. ANG/C4CE Responsibility. When the STEM desires support to perform a costing, the following
should be accomplished by the ANG/C4CE:
   4.3.1. In coordination with the STEM, determine whether the contractor or EI method will be used
   when more than one option is available.
   4.3.2. When the method selection is made, continue with the general procedures as outlined in Para-
   graph 4.1.

4.4. COR Responsibilities. In special circumstances the STEM may be designated as the COR. The
COR responsibility is to ensure that the contractor is complying with the terms, conditions and specifica-
tions set out in the contract. The COR will coordinate with contractor team leader and any others neces-
sary to ensure maximum, on-time performance.
   4.4.1. The COR is responsible for evaluation of contractor performance. The COR will develop man-
   agement tools (i.e., checklist) to collect and support evaluation criteria that is required by the contract.
   Even when not designated as the COR, the STEM participation is critical to sound contract evaluation.
   The STEM should coordinate closely with the COR, if required, to ensure timely reporting from the
   contractor team leader. The COR will meet with the contractor team leader to discuss evaluation find-
   ings.
   4.4.2. The COR will develop and implement a surveillance plan for the delivery order. The surveil-
   lance plan will be tailored to support specifics of the delivery order. This will be the primary manage-
   ment tool.
   4.4.3. The COR will develop and implement a surveillance log based on the surveillance plan for the
   delivery order. All contractor performance will be consolidated and maintained in this log. If required
   the COR will prepare monthly, quarterly and as required reports from the surveillance log.
   4.4.4. The COR must be familiar with the contract terms, conditions and governing specifications.
   The COR must be able to apply terms, conditions and specifications to the delivery order. This is a
   critical element in daily delivery order management.
   4.4.5. The COR must solve delivery order issues/problems by using the contractual hierarchy for the
   specific contract in question.
   4.4.6. The COR is responsible to establish and maintain delivery order documentation and records of
   any meetings conducted. In the event of a discrepancy this is the only source of information.
   4.4.7. The STEM will ensure that QAE is completed by qualified CF or EI personnel prior to final
   accptance by the COR. Special attention will be afforded to all safety aspects (e.g., Occupational
20                                                                        ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


     Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), (National Electric Code (NEC), or National Electrical
     Safety Code (NESC) requirements) and should also include verifable conformance with installation
     methods to ensure manufacturer’s warranties are not invalidated. When feasible, QAE evaluators will
     observe contractor testing.
     4.4.8. The COR may be responsible to sign final acceptance documention.
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                                   21


                                               Chapter 5

                                  TRAINING POLICY GUIDANCE

5.1. General. The ANG STEM regional council member will act as point-of-contact to represent the
group training needs, requirements, and enrollment. These same training contacts will be responsible for
holding group training discussions to determine training which is required to develop and maintain the
Blueprint. He/she will be required to:
   5.1.1. The ANG STEM council will interact with ANG/C4CE to define the training needs of STEMs
   with ANG/C4CE. Identify training sources, enrollment limits, cost per student, and course duration,
   with topics and materials for the requested training.
   5.1.2. Disseminate the results of all training interactions including, but not limited to, any results of
   course evaluations/surveys discussed yearly in the group.

5.2. ANG/C4CE Responsibility. ANG/C4CE will:
   5.2.1. Interact with ANG STEM Council, identifying their training requirements, and giving positive
   feedback to additional training available.
   5.2.2. Approve training directions and obtain funding for those training objectives based on data
   received by ANG STEM Council training representatives.
   5.2.3. Schedule, project, and budget for all ANG STEM training requirements.
   5.2.4. Maintain and manage the ANG STEM training process to include support of any training held
   at other STEM locations.
   5.2.5. Continuously seek out suppliers, which will support and tailor courses to STEM needs.
   5.2.6. Work with 38 EIG to obtain and schedule ANG STEM training provided by the 38 EIG under
   provisions of AFI 10-301.



                                               DANIEL JAMES III, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                               Director, Air National Guard
22                                                                     ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of Air Reserve Component (ARC) Forces
AFI 21 404, Developing and Maintaining Communications and Information Systems Installation Records
AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems
AFI 33-101, Communications and Information Management Guidance and Responsibilities
AFI 33-103, Requirements Developing and Processing
AFI 33-104, Base-Level Planning and Implementation
AFMAN 33-105, Engineering-Installation Services
AFI 33-107 V1, Strategic Automated Command Control System-Data Transmission Subsystem
AFI 33-107 V2, Strategic Automated Command Control System-Data Transmission Subsystem
(SACCS-DTS) Network Security Program
AFI 33-107 V3, SACCS-DTS Network Security Plan
AFI 33-107 V4, SACCS-DTS AWCP MUTE BCP Operations
AFI 33-108, Compatibility, Interoperability, and Integration of Command, Control, Communications and
Computer (C4) Systems
AFI 33-111, Telephone Systems Management
AFI 33-112, Computer Systems Management
AFI 33-113, Managing Air Force Messaging Centers
AFI 33-114, Software Management
AFI 33-115v1, Network Management
AFI 33-115v2, Licensing Network Users - Certifying Network
AFI 33-116, Long-Haul Telecommunications Management
AFI 33-118, Radio Frequency (RF) Spectrum Management
AFMAN 33-120, Radio Frequency (RF) Spectrum Management
AFI 33-122, Computer Systems Manuals
AFI 33-124, Enterprise Information Technology (IT) Architectures
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use
AFI 33-133, Joint Technical Architecture – Air Force (JTA-AF)
AFI 33-202, Network and Computer Security
AFI 33-203, Emission Security (EMSEC)
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                          23


AFI 33-204, Information Assurance (IA) Awareness Program
AFI 33-211, Communications Security (COMSEC) User Requirements
AFMAN 33-214 V2, Emission Security Countermeasures Reviews
AFI 33-219, Telecommunications Monitoring and Assessment Program (TMAP)
AFI 33-220, On-Hook Telephone Security Program
AFMAN 33-221, Communications Security: Protected Distribution Systems (PDS)AFI 33-230, Informa-
tion Assurance Assessment and Assistance Program
AFMAN 33-274, On-Hook Telephone Security Guidelines
AFDIR 33-303, Compendium of Communications and Information Terminology
AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications
AFH 33-337, The Tongue and Quill
AFMCI 33-104, Engineering Installation (EI) Procedures
AFCA TC 03-32, Communications Distribution Design for Military Facilities
38 EIG Handbook 33-06, BITSEP (Base Information Transport System – Engineering Planning)
AF Engineering Technical Letter (ETL) 02-12, Communications and Information System Criteria for Air
Force Facilities
ANG Engineering Technical Letter (ETL) 01-01-1, Air National Guard Design Policy (Tab D)
TIA/EIA-568-B.1 – Commercial Building Telecommunications Cabling Standard – General Require-
ments
TIA/EIA-568-B.2 – Balanced Twisted Pair Cabling Components Commercial Building Telecommunica-
tions Cabling Standard – Balanced Twisted Pair Cabling Components
TIA/EIA-568-B.3 – Commercial Building Telecommunications Cabling Standard – Optical Fiber
Cabling
TIA/EIA-569-A – Telecommunications Pathways and Spaces
TIA/EIA-606-A – Administration Standard for Telecommunications Infrastructure
ANSI-J-STD-607-A – Commercial Building Grounding (Earthing) and Bonding Requirements for Tele-
communications
TIA/EIA-758 – Customer-Owned Outside Plant Cabling
National Fire Protection Act (NFPA) 70, National Electric Code (NEC)
IEEE C2-2002, National Electrical Safety Code (NESC)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AIS— Automated Information System
ACES-RP— Automated CE System
ADPE— Automated Data Processing Equipment
24                                                                 ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


AF— Air Force
AFSN— Air Forse Systems Networking
ANG— Air National Guard
ANSI— American National Standards Institute
APCO— Association of Public Safety Communications Officials
ASR— Airport Surveillance Radar
ATC— Air Traffic Control
ATCALS— Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems
BAN— Basewide Area Network
BCE— Base Civil Engineer
BIP— Blueprint Implementation Plans
BITSEP— Base Information Transport System - Engineering Planning
BPID— Blueprint Phased Implementation Directives
C4ISR— Command, Control, Communications and Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance
CAD— Computer Aided Drafting
CATV— Community Access Television
CCTV— Closed Circuit Television
CE— Civil Engineering
CISA— Communications and Information Systems Architecture
CIO— Chief Information Officer
CIPS— Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance (C4ISR) Infostructure Planning System
CITS— Combat Information Transport System
CF— Communications Flight
CO—Contracting Officer
COR— Contracting Office Representative
CSA— Communications Service Agreement
CSIR— Communications Systems Installation Record
CSO— Communications and Information Systems Officer
CSRD— Communications-Computer Systems Requirements Document
Cu— Copper (Cable)
DoD— Department of Defense
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                 25


DSN— Digital Switched Network
ECRA— Engineering Change Request Authorization
ECS— Entry Control System
EI— Engineering Installation
EIA— Electronic Industries Alliance
EIG— Engineering Installation Group
EIS— Engineering Installation Squadrons
EBN— End Building Node
FAE— Functional Area Experts
FAR— Federal Acquisition Regulation
FO— Fiber Optic (Cable)
FY— Fiscal Year
GSU— Geogrphicly Seperated Units
HF— High Frequency
IAW— In Accordance With
IDS— Intrusion Detection System
ILS— Instrument Landing System
ISDN— Integrated Services Digital Network
IT— Information Technology
iTRM— Infostructure Technology Reference Model
ITN— Information Transfer Node
ITS— Information Transfer System
LAN— Local Area Network
LMR— Land Mobile Radio
LOM— List of Materials
MAJCOM— Major Command
MCIA— MAJCOM Communications Infostructure Assessment
MCP— Military Construction Program
MDF— Main Distribution Frame
MH— Maintenance Hole (aka. Manhole)
MM— Multimode (Fiber Optic Cable)
MNS— Mass Notification System
26                                                               ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


MWP— Master Work Plan
NATO— North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NAVAIDS— Navigation Aid System
NCC— Network Control Center
NEC— National Electric Code
NESC— National Electrical Safety Code
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NIPRNET— Nonsecure Internet Protocol
NOSC— Network Operations and Security Center
NMS/BIP— Network Management System/Base Information Protection
O&M— Operations and Maintenance
OSHA— Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PA— Public Address
PAR— Precision Approach Radar
PCA— Probability of Correct Annunciation
POM— Program Objective Memorandum
PRI— Primary Rate Interface
PSA— Project Support Agreement
QAE— Quality Assurance Evaluation
RAPCON— Radar Approach Control
RF— Radio Frequency
RFP— Request for Proposal
RFQ— Request for Quote
RTM— Requirement Tracking Module
SATAF— Site Action Task Force
SATCOM— Satellite Communication
SCI— Sensitive Compartmented Information
SCX— Plans and Implementation Section
SDP— Service Delivery Point
SIPRNET— Secure Internet Protocol
SM— Singlemode (Fiber Optic Cable)
SOW— Statement of Work
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                   27


SPO— System Program Offices
SRM— Sustainment Repair and Maintenance
STEM— Systems Telecommunications Engineering Manager
STEM-B— Systems Telecommunications Engineering Manager - Base Level
STEM-C— Systems Telecommunications Engineering Manager - Command Level
TACAN— Tactical Air(borne) Navigation
TFG— Total Force Group
TIA— Telecommunicaitons Industry Association
TRACON— (ATC) Terminal Radar Approach Control
UHF— Ultra High Frequency
UPS— Uniterruptable Power Supply
VPN— Virtual Private Network(ing)
VHF— Very High Frequency
VOR— VHF (Very High Frequency) Omni-directional Radio-range
VSS— Video Surveillance System
VTC— Video Teleconferencing
28                                                                           ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


                                              Attachment 2

                                      CIPS REVIEW CRITERIA

A2.1. CIPS Review Criteria. Figure A2.1. is the criteria for CIPS Review.

Figure A2.1. CIPS Review Criteria.


Distribution Systems
Voice Switching Systems
Data Systems
Network Control Center
Flight Support Systems
Long Haul Systems
Radio Systems
Video Systems
Security Systems
Other Systems
Mission Statement
Military Construction/Modifications
Demographics (Building, Occupants/Users and user requirements)
Logical BAN Layout

The criteria for determining Commodity Status in CIPS will be dictated by the ANG MAJCOM Commu-
nications Infostructure Assessment (MCIA) tables loaded in the CIPS database for each Commodity/
Sub-Commodity. There are four possible states that the tailored criteria will indicate, each associated with
a color and symbol in CIPS. This result states area summarized below.


RATING          Symbol      Mission Impact
                            System INOP or serious shortfalls. Expect system failure if shortfalls are not
     RED
                            addressed

YELLOW                      System Operational. Possible Mission Impact Expected.


 GREEN                      System Operational. No Mission Impact Expected.


     NONE                   Commodity Status does not apply.
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                             29


                                           Attachment 3

                             DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS MINIMUM

A3.1. Existing Conditions Summaries.


    Copper Cable. Identify owner and O&M, location of DCO and cable vaults/distribution frames,
    number of trunk cables.
    Fiber Optic Cable. Identify owner and O&M, describe fiber backbone (identify ITNs and linked by
    xx strand SM cable, etc.), approximate percentage of end building facilities already served by FO
    cable.
    Maintenance Hole (MH)/Underground Conduit. General discussion of extent and serviceability
    of existing maintenance hole/conduit system.

NOTE: Optional drawings include existing copper and FOC distribution systems and a MH/Duct dia-
gram overlaid on a base CAD drawing.

A3.2. Assessment Criteria.


        1.   Does the Existing Conditions clearly and concisely describe the installed systems?
        2.   Does the Shortfalls/Mission Impact paragraph clearly and concisely describe the problem
             areas?
        3.   Does the Target Architecture paragraph clearly and concisely describe the short and
             long-range targets?
        4.   Does the Transition Strategy paragraph clearly and concisely describe the plan to attain
             the targets?
        5.   Are there initiatives/projects addressing shortfalls for the short and long term?
        6.   Are the cost projection tables and BIP elements current?
        7.   Are there cost projections for each initiative/program?
        8.   Do all applicable tables have data and do they appear complete?
        9.   Are the minimum required diagrams and drawings present?

A3.3. Figures.


        Existing Cable Distribution Map (map with cable plant {copper and fiber})
        Existing Fiber Optic Cable Schematic (“bubble” diagram showing backbone and end building
        connectivity)
        Existing Manhole/Conduit Systems (CAD map with manhole and duct overlay, highlight
        shortfall areas such as suspected collapsed duct, etc.)
30                                               ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


A3.4. Commodities with MCIA Criteria


       Distribution Method
       Maintenance Hole Duct Run Availability
       Copper Cable Type
       Distribution Cable Usage
       Feeder Cable Usage
       ITN to ITN Cable Type
       ITN to ITN Fiber Conductor Availability
       ITN to EBN Distribution Method
       ITN to EBN Fiber Availability
       ITN to End Node Connectivity (Density)
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                                  31


                                             Attachment 4

                           VOICE SWITCHING SYSTEMS MINIMUM

A4.1. Existing Conditions Summaries.


     Host Telephone Switch. Identify owner and O&M, location of Host Switch, general discussion of
     serviceability of switch, ISDN equipped, PRI ISDN trunking, Voice-mail and Auto-call attendant,
     etc.
     Remote Telephone Switches. Identify owner and O&M, location of Remote Switches, general
     discussion of serviceability of switch, ISDN equipped, etc.
     Other Telephone Switches. Identify owner and O&M, location of Other Switches, general
     discussion of serviceability of switch, ISDN equipped, etc.

All the items outlined in the voice switching systems summary approved by the STEM-Cs to include the
data for the tables/reports.
NOTE: Optional drawings include Base Trunking Block Diagram.

A4.2. Assessment Criteria.


        1.    Does the Existing Conditions clearly and concisely describe the installed systems?
        2.    Does the Shortfalls/Mission Impact paragraph clearly and concisely describe the problem
              areas?
        3.    Does the Target Architecture paragraph clearly and concisely describe the short and
              long-range targets?
        4.    Does the Transition Strategy paragraph clearly and concisely describe the plan to attain the
              targets?
        5.    Are there initiatives/projects addressing shortfalls for the short and long term?
        6.    Are the cost projection tables and BIP elements current?
        7.    Are there cost projections for each initiative/program?
        8.    Do all applicable tables have data and do they appear complete?

A4.3. Figures.


        Base Trunking Block Diagram (Powerpoint or Visio diagram)
32                                                            ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


A4.4. Commodities with MCIA Criteria


       Voice Switch Expandability
       Voice Switch Hardware/Software Supportability
       Voice Switch ISDN Capability
       Remote Voice Switch Expandability
       Remote Voice Switch Hardware/Software Supportability
       Remote Voice Switch ISDN Capability
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                                  33


                                             Attachment 5

                                    DATA SYSTEMS MINIMUM

A5.1. Existing Conditions Summaries.


     Unclassified Network. Number of ITNs, backbone speed, transport mechanism, approximate
     number of users.
     Classified Network. Number of ITNs, backbone speed, transport mechanism, approximate number
     of users.
     Other Networks. Include what is not in the previous two paragraphs. For instance foreign national
     networks, NATO networks, Services networks, Public domain networks, CE networks, etc.

All items outlined in the data system summary approved by the STEM-Cs to include the data for the
tables/reports. Also, the minimum includes the following logical diagrams of the BAN:


             ITN-ITN connectivity.
             ITN-EBN connectivity (each ITN on a separate diagram).
                    All core 1 buildings should be shown as red circles.
                    All core 2 buildings should be shown as yellow circles.
                    All core 3 buildings should be shown as green circles.
                    All non-core buildings should be shown as white circles.
             Logical diagram that depicts the classified network using the same symbology.

A5.2. Assessment Criteria (Classified and Unclassified Networks).


        1.    Does the Existing Conditions clearly and concisely describe the installed systems?
        2.    Does the Shortfalls/Mission Impact paragraph clearly and concisely describe the problem
              areas?
        3.    Does the Target Architecture paragraph clearly and concisely describe the short and
              long-range targets?
        4.    Does the Transition Strategy paragraph clearly and concisely describe the plan to attain the
              targets?
        5.    Are there initiatives/projects addressing shortfalls for the short and long term?
        6.    Are the cost projection tables and BIP elements current?
        7.    Are there cost projections for each initiative/program?
        8.    Do all applicable tables have data and do they appear complete?
        9.    Are the minimum required diagrams and drawings present?
34                                                         ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


A5.3. Commodities with MCIA Criteria


     Premise Wiring Coverage           BAN Equipment Configuration Backup
     Premise Wiring Management         BAN Equipment Backup Backbone
     Premise Wiring Media              BAN Equipment Logical Connection to ITNs
     LAN Equipment Technology          BAN Equipment Router Redundancy
     LAN Equipment Redundancy          AIS Server Coverage
     LAN Equipment Coverage            AIS Server Port Speed
     BAN Equipment Technology          AIS Server Technology
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                                  35


                                             Attachment 6

                           NETWORK CONTROL CENTER MINIMUM

A6.1. Existing Conditions Summaries


     General. Provide a one or two sentence description of the base's Network Control Center and its
     associated systems - macro overview. Include the Phase of CITS NMS/BIP that is installed.
     Base Information Protection System. Identify systems (firewalls, proxies, Virtual Private
     Networks (VPN), network equipment, Security Management System, etc), locations, and provide a
     (very) brief description.
     Network Management Systems. Identify systems (HP OpenView, Cisco Works, etc), locations,
     and provide a brief description.
     Configuration Management Systems. Identify systems (IPMS, HP OpenView, etc), locations, and
     provide a brief description.
     Fault Management Systems. Identify systems (Remedy, etc), locations, and provide a brief
     description.
     Remote Access System(s). Identify systems, locations, and provide a brief description.
     Other Systems. Identify systems (such as TMS), locations, and provide a brief description.

All the items outlined in the NCC summary approved by the STEM-Cs to include the data for the table/
report.
NOTE: Requiring the inclusion of a layout drawing is currently at the discretion of the individual STEM.
However, it is fully anticipated that the inclusion of the layout drawing will became a standard require-
ment.

A6.2. Assessment Criteria.


         1.   Does the Existing Conditions clearly and concisely describe the installed systems?
         2.   Does the Shortfalls/Mission Impact paragraph clearly and concisely describe the problem
              areas?
         3.   Does the Target Architecture paragraph clearly and concisely describe the short and
              long-range targets?
         4.   Does the Transition Strategy paragraph clearly and concisely describe the plan to attain the
              targets?
         5.   Are there initiatives/projects addressing shortfalls for the short and long term?
         6.   Are the cost projection tables and BIP elements current?
         7.   Are there cost projections for each initiative/program?
         8.   Do all applicable tables have data and do they appear complete?
36                                                                      ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


A6.3. Figures.


         Existing BAN Layout (Diagram showing the network between the internal router that feeds the
         BAN and the Service Delivery Point (SDP); it will include firewalls, proxies, IDS, Load
         Balancers, network equipment, etc that make up the Barrier between the SDP and the base
         network).

A6.4. Commodities with MCIA Criteria


     Core Server Software/Security Patches     Firewall Throughput
     Core Server Operating System              Firewall UPS Backup
     Core Server Connection                    Firewall VPN Capability
     Core Server Hardware                      Information Assurance Coverage
     Core Server UPS Backup                    Information Assurance Software
     Core Server Recovery and Backup           Information Assurance NOSC/NCC Connection
     Firewall Coverage                         Information Assurance UPS Backup
     Firewall Software                         Information Assurance Hardware
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                                  37


                                             Attachment 7

                            FLIGHT SUPPORT SYSTEMS MINIMUM

A7.1. Existing Conditions Summaries.


     General. Provide a two or three sentence description of the base's air traffic control and
     meteorological systems - macro overview. Note the number of runways, whether there is
     instrumentation, and whether there is local radar approach control (RAPCON) or remote approach
     (TRACON).
          ATCALS Radar Equipment. Identify systems, locations, and provide a (very) brief
          description.
     Navigational Aids/Landing Systems. Identify systems, locations, runway coverage (ILS), and
     provide a brief description.
     Meteorological Systems. Identify systems, locations, runway coverage (if applicable), and provide
     a brief description.
     Voice Communications and Radio Switching Systems. Identify systems, locations, and provide a
     brief description.


All the items outlined in the flight support systems summary approved up by the STEM-Cs to include the
data for the tables/reports.
NOTE: The Navigational Aids/Landing Systems and Meteorological Systems figures are optional at this
time

A7.2. Assessment Criteria.


        1.    Does the Existing Conditions clearly and concisely describe the installed systems?
        2.    Does the Shortfalls/Mission Impact paragraph clearly and concisely describe the problem
              areas?
        3.    Does the Target Architecture paragraph clearly and concisely describe the short and
              long-range targets?
        4.    Does the Transition Strategy paragraph clearly and concisely describe the plan to attain the
              targets?
        5.    Are there initiatives/projects addressing shortfalls for the short and long term?
        6.    Are the cost projection tables and BIP elements current?
        7.    Are there cost projections for each initiative/program?
        8.    Do all applicable tables have data and do they appear complete?
38                                                                    ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


A7.3. Figures.


        Navigational Aids/Landing Systems (Airfield layout depicting ILS systems, TACAN and
        VOR).
        Meteorological Systems (Airfield layout depicting Weather Systems).

A7.4. Commodities with MCIA Criteria


     Flight Support Switching System ATC         ASR Coverage
     Operability
     Flight Support Switching System             PAR Supportability
     Supportability
     Flight Support Switching System             PAR Coverage
     Expandability
     NAVAIDS ILS Coverage                        Weather Wind Measuring System Coverage
     NAVAIDS ILS Localizer Coverage              Weather Transmissometer Coverage
     NAVAIDS ILS Localizer Supportability        Weather Transmissometer Supportability
     ILS Supportability                          Weather Radar Processor/Display Supportability
     VOR Coverage                                Weather Runway Visual Range (RVR) Coverage
     VOR Supportability                          Weather Runway Visual Range (RVR)
                                                 Supportability
     VORTAC Coverage                             Weather Barometer Altimeter Setting Indicator
                                                 (DBASI) Coverage
     VORTAC Coverage                             Weather Barometer Altimeter Setting Indicator
                                                 (DBASI) Supportability
     TACAN Supportability                        Weather Radar Coverage
     TACAN Coverage                              Weather Radar Supportability
     Radar Automation Processing and Display     Weather Temperature and Dewpoint Set Coverage
     Expandability
     Radar Automation Processing and Display     Weather Temperature and Dewpoint Set
     Operability                                 Supportability
     Radar Automation Processing and Display     Weather Sensor Coverage
     Supportability
     Control Tower Radar Display                 Weather Sensor Supportability
     Supportability
     ASR Supportability
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                                 39


                                            Attachment 8

                              LONG HAUL SUSTEMS MINIMUM

A8.1. Existing Conditions Summaries.

    NIPRNET. (Speed, SDP, far end) Optional - vendor
    SIPRNET. (Speed, SDP, far end) Optional - vendor
    Multiplexers. Type and location. Describe # of circuits provided
    Microwave. System location
    SATCOM. System location
    DSN. (Number and Type of trunks, far-end) Optional – vendor
    FTS-2001. ( Number and Type of trunks, far-end) Optional – vendor

A8.2. Assessment Criteria.

        1.   Does the Existing Conditions clearly and concisely describe the installed systems?
        2.   Does the Shortfalls/Mission Impact paragraph clearly and concisely describe the problem
             areas?
        3.   Does the Target Architecture paragraph clearly and concisely describe the short and
             long-range targets?
        4.   Does the Transition Strategy paragraph clearly and concisely describe the plan to attain the
             targets?
        5.   Are there initiatives/projects addressing shortfalls for the short and long term?
        6.   Are the cost projection tables and BIP elements current?
        7.   Are there cost projections for each initiative/program (NIPRNET, SIPRNET, DSN, FTS,
             etc.)?
        8.   Do all applicable tables have data and do they appear complete?

A8.3. Commodities with MCIA Criteria

        SCI Networks Test Equipment
        Tech Control Facilities Battery Age
        Tech Control Facilities Battery Backup
        Tech Control Facilities Backup Generators
        NIPRNET Quality of Service
        Dedicated Circuits MDF
        Dedicated Circuits Secondary Crash Conference System
        Dedicated Circuits Infrastructures
40                                                                          ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


                                             Attachment 9

                                   RADIO SYSTEMS MINIMUM

A9.1. Existing Conditions Summaries


     HF Radios. General discussion of HF radios networks operating at the base and missions they
     support.
     VHF Radios. General discussion of VHF radios networks operating at the base and missions they
     support.
     UHF Radios. General discussion of HF radios networks operating at the base and missions they
     support.
     LMR Systems. General discussion of the base LMR system, i.e. whether is conventional or
     trunking, digital or non-digital, narrow band or non-narrow band, whether system is APCO Project
     25 compliant, and number of users.

NOTE: The Radio Systems, LMR Systems, and Antenna Field figures are optional.

A9.2. Assessment Criteria.


        1.    Does the Existing Conditions clearly and concisely describe the installed systems?
        2.    Does the Shortfalls/Mission Impact paragraph clearly and concisely describe the problem
              areas?
        3.    Does the Target Architecture paragraph clearly and concisely describe the short and
              long-range targets?
        4.    Does the Transition Strategy paragraph clearly and concisely describe the plan to attain the
              targets?
        5.    Are there initiatives/projects addressing shortfalls for the short and long term?
        6.    Are the cost projection tables and BIP elements current?
        7.    Are there cost projections for each initiative/program (HF, VHF, UHF, and LMR)?
        8.    Do all applicable tables have data and do they appear complete?

A9.3. Figures.


        Radio Systems (Block diagrams showing HF/VHF/UHF connectivity).
        LMR Systems (Block diagrams showing net layouts or trunking system diagrams).
        Antenna Fields (CAD map for buildings with antenna fields placed around them showing
        cable runs from the buildings to antennas.).
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                   41


A9.4. Commodities with MCIA Criteria


   Ground to Air System Range Coverage              Ground to Air System Audio Quality
   Ground to Air System Expandability Facilities    LMR Coverage
   Ground to Air System Frequency Allocation        LMR Expandability
   Ground to Air System Tactical Secure Voice       LMR Frequency/Audio Quality
   Ground to Air System Airfield Coverage           LMR Technology
   Ground to Air System Logistical Supportability   LMR Supportability
   Ground to Air System Telecom Expandability
42                                                                         ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


                                            Attachment 10

                                   VIDEO SYSTEMS MINIMUM

A10.1. Existing Conditions Summaries


     VTC. Identify systems & location, plus brief description.
     Secure VTC. Identify systems & location, classification, plus brief description.
     Cable TV. Identify systems & location, plus brief description.
     Video Phones. Identify systems & location, classification, plus brief description.

All the items outlined in the video systems summary approved by the STEM-Cs to include the data for the
table/report.

A10.2. Assessment Criteria.


        1.    Does the Existing Conditions clearly and concisely describe the installed systems?
        2.    Does the Shortfalls/Mission Impact paragraph clearly and concisely describe the problem
              areas?
        3.    Does the Target Architecture paragraph clearly and concisely describe the short and
              long-range targets?
        4.    Does the Transition Strategy paragraph clearly and concisely describe the plan to attain
              the targets?
        5.    Are there initiatives/projects addressing shortfalls for the short and long term?
        6.    Are the cost projection tables and BIP elements current?
        7.    Are there cost projections for each initiative/program (VTC, Secure VTC, CATV, CCTV,
              Video Phones)?
        8.    Do all applicable tables have data and do they appear complete?

A10.3. Commodities with MCIA Criteria


        Video Teleconferencing Quality of Service
        Video Teleconferencing Technology
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                                   43


                                             Attachment 11

                                 SECURITY SYSTEMS MINIMUM

A11.1. Existing Conditions Summaries


     Annunciator Systems. Provide a short general description. (Identify owner/operator; resources
     protected including priority; relate master to slave, remote, and backup system(s) - if any, etc.).
     Entry Control Systems (ECS). Provide a short description. (Identify owner/operator, resources
     protected including priority; relate master to slave, remote, and backup system(s) - if any, etc.).
     Video Surveillance Systems (VSS). Provide a short description. (Identify owner/operator,
     resources protected including priority; relate master to slave, remote, and backup system(s) - if any,
     etc.).

All the items outlined in the security systems summary approved by the STEM-Cs to include the data for
the tables/reports.
NOTE: The Security Systems Schematic, ECS Schematic, VSS Layout figures are optional.

A11.2. Assessment Criteria.


        1.    Does the Existing Conditions clearly and concisely describe the installed systems?
        2.    Does the Shortfalls/Mission Impact paragraph clearly and concisely describe the problem
              areas?
        3.    Does the Target Architecture paragraph clearly and concisely describe the short and
              long-range targets?
        4.    Does the Transition Strategy paragraph clearly and concisely describe the plan to attain the
              targets?
        5.    Are there initiatives/projects addressing shortfalls for the short and long term?
        6.    Are the cost projection tables and BIP elements current?
        7.    Are there cost projections for each initiative/program?
        8.    Do all applicable tables have data and do they appear complete?
44                                                                     ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


A11.3. Figures.


        Security Systems Schematic (OPTIONAL – Relate operator monitor/control console(s) to major
        components, zones of protection, sensor types, interconnections, etc.).
        ECS Schematic (OPTIONAL – Relate operator monitor/control console(s) to major
        components, portals, zones of protection, interconnections, etc.).
        VSS Layout (OPTIONAL – For complex systems, provide a schematic relating operator
        monitor/control console(s) to surveillance zones).

A11.4. Commodities with MCIA Criteria


     Entry Control System UPS                         Monitor Control/Enunciator Probability of
                                                      Correct Annunciation (PCA)
     Entry Control System Electrical Grounding        Monitor Control/Enunciator UPS
     Entry Control System Supportability              Video Surveillance System Coverage
     Intrusion Detection System Coverage              Video Surveillance System Hardware/Software
                                                      Supportability
     Intrusion Detection System UPS                   Video Surveillance System Lighting
     Intrusion Detection System Supportability        Video Surveillance System Video Assessment
                                                      Zone Coverage
     Intrusion Detection System Intrusion Detection   Video Surveillance System UPS
     Capability
     Intrusion Detection System Invalid Systems
     Monitor Control/Enunciator Redundancy
     Monitor Control/Enunciator Hardware/
     Software Supportability
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                                 45


                                           Attachment 12

                                  OTHER SYSTMES MINIMUM

A12.1. Other Systems Minimum. All the items outlined in the other systems summary approved by the
STEM-Cs to include the data for the tables/reports.

NOTES:
  1. The Mass Notification System (also referred to as Giant Voice/Public Address) Schematic figure
     is optional.
   2. The Contract Maintenance, O&M Contract and CSA Sub-Commodities are optional for the ANG.

A12.2. Assessment Criteria.


        1.   Does the Existing Conditions clearly and concisely describe the installed systems?
        2.   Does the Shortfalls/Mission Impact paragraph clearly and concisely describe the problem
             areas?
        3.   Does the Target Architecture paragraph clearly and concisely describe the short and
             long-range targets?
        4.   Does the Transition Strategy paragraph clearly and concisely describe the plan to attain the
             targets?
        5.   Are there initiatives/projects addressing shortfalls for the short and long term?
        6.   Are the cost projection tables and BIP elements current?
        7.   Are there cost projections for each initiative/program?
        8.   Do all applicable tables have data and do they appear complete?

A12.3. Figures.


        Mass Notification System (MNS) Schematic (OPTIONAL – Relate operator monitor/control
        console(s) to major components, zones of announcement, interconnections, etc.).

A12.4. Commodities with MCIA Criteria


        Mass Notification System Coverage
        Mass Notification System Quality of Service
        Mass Notification System Technology
        Mass Notification System Supportability
46                                                                         ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


                                            Attachment 13

                                MISSION STATEMENT MINIMUM

A13.1. Mission Statement Minimum. This attachment contains concise descriptions for each major
unit located at the base. (Minimum required is the base mission statement. Unit and Tenant Mission State-
ments are optional {dependent on base/MAJCOM}.)

A13.2. Assessment Criteria.


         1.   Is there a clear and concise mission statement for the base?
         2.   Is there a mission statement for each major unit and tenant unit located on the base?
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                               47


                                           Attachment 14

                       MILITARY CONSTRUCTION/MODIFICATIONS

A14.1. MCPs and Modifications. The table is filled out for base MCPs and Modifications.

A14.2. Assessment Criteria.


        1.   Is the table filled in and complete (Project Number, Project Title, FY, Budget, Internal/
             External Comm Equip, Internal/External Comm Cable, External MH-Duct, Total Comm
             Cost, Test Start/Finish Date)?
        2.   Has the table been updated to reflect the current FY?
48                                                                     ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005


                                          Attachment 15

                                        DEMOGRAPHICS

A15.1. Demographics. Buildings, Occupants/Users and user requirements info as a minimum

A15.2. Assessment Criteria


     1.   Are the tables filled in and complete?
          Building (or facility)
            1. Number
            2. Description
            3. Core (mission) category (data is 1, 2, 3, or Non-Core/4)
          Building Occupants/Users
            1. Organization (example 94AW)
            2. Office Symbol (example LGM) (pick primary office, don't list all)
          User Requirements
            1. Existing number of drops (LAN ports with Cat-5e wire to an outlet)
            2. Additional, forecasted number of drops
            3. Existing systems supported (link to 2nd level report for that bldg only)
            4. Proposed systems (those coming in the near term, 1-2 years)
          Primary Bldg Network Switch/Uplink
            1. Existing fiber cable type and number of strands
            2. Uplink Speed
            3. Uplink technology (can link from speed if presentation space is needed)
            4. Switch model number
          LAN Switch/Hub (2nd level report items - future addition to web blueprint)
            1. Number of ports used
            2. Number of ports equipped
            3. Switch vendor name
            4. Switch model number
ANGI33-104 10 MAY 2005                                                                       49


                                        Attachment 16

                             LOGICAL BAN LAYOUT MINIMUM

A16.1. Logical BAN Layout. Diagram of ITN to ITN connectivity (with and without FO/Cu) and NIPR-
NET/SIPRNET SDP connectivity as a minimum

A16.2. Assessment Criteria


    Are the diagrams complete and use prescribed symbology?
       - Show all ITN to EBN FO\Cu cabling (strands and type)
           -    Red Solid = SM FOC
           -    Red Dashed = MM FOC
           -    Blue = Copper
       - Standard Symbology for EBNs (all w/ bldg # inside)
           -    Red circle for CORE 1
           -    Yellow circle for CORE 2
           -    Green circle for CORE 3
                White circle for NON-CORE
