BY ORDER OF THE                                     AIR NATIONAL GUARD INSTRUCTION
CHIEF, NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU                                                 11-101

                                                                              22 MARCH 2012

                                                                             Flying Operations

                                                            FLYING HOUR MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: NGB/A3E                                                             Certified by: NGB/A3
                                                                   (Col. Michael E. Flanagan)
Supersedes:   ANGI11-101, 2 February 2009
                                                                                      Pages: 17

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 11-1, Flying Hour Program, by
providing guidance to the National Guard Bureau (NGB) staff and Air National Guard (ANG)
flying units outlining responsibilities, policies, and procedures for planning, programming, and
executing the ANG flying hour program. It also provides guidance and policy for unit level
planning and reporting flying-hour execution. This instruction is applicable to all ANG flying
organizations including detachments, and associations. Failure to observe the prohibitions and
mandatory provisions in the publication is a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military
Justice (UCMJ); or that noncompliance may result in punishment under Article 92, UCMJ. This
instruction recognizes that command authority is exercised by the State Adjutants General; the
NGB provides policy and management guidance. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and should be completely reviewed. Revisions include
changes to execution forecasting, reporting procedures for execution review periods,
programming and execution procedures for active duty/guard associations, and flying hour
funding.
1. General Information.
2                                                               ANGI11-101 22 MARCH 2012


    1.1. Program Objective: The objective for the Air National Guard Flying Hour Program
    (FHP) is to provide ANG units with flying hour resources to accomplish validated weapon
    system Volume 1 training requirements, to ensure the highest level of aircrew training and
    readiness, and to fully execute the approved flying hour program as funded in the President’s
    Budget (PB).
    1.2. Fiscal year flying-hour Operations and Maintenance (O&M) programs may not be
    exceeded without NGB/A3/FM approval. Likewise, the Transportation Working Capital
    Fund (TWCF) program, and its expense authority, may not be exceeded without prior
    approval from Headquarters Air Force Operational Training Division (HQ USAF/A3OT) and
    coordination with Headquarters Air Mobility Command, Training Resources Branch,
    Aircrew Operations and Training Division (AMC/A37TR).
       1.2.1. Units must fly within the limits of their specific weapon system Program Element
       (PE), and schedule missions accordingly to fully execute their annual flying hour
       allocation. Annual allocations may consist of O&M, incremental contingency, and/or
       TWCF airlift hours.
           1.2.1.1. There may be situations during Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO)
           when training missions must be accomplished to maintain aviation skill proficiency,
           and in those cases, O&M training hours may be executed at the deployed location
           provided the mission is scheduled, planned, and executed for the sole purpose of
           training. Otherwise, all hours flown for deployment, employment, and re-deployment
           must be charged to the contingency operation as incremental contingency O&M
           (ANG O&M-R) hours or TWCF airlift hours.
           1.2.1.2. ANG aircraft will not fly training missions from Continental United States
           (CONUS) to Outside Continental United States (OCONUS) locations and terminate
           in a theater of operation or Area of Responsibility (AOR).
           1.2.1.3. Only missions scheduled in direct support of contingency operations and
           authorized by the combatant commander will be approved and those only when using
           incremental contingency O&M-R or TWCF flying hours.
           1.2.1.4. Annual execution forecasts must be realistic and executable and include
           operational training, OCO, and TWCF airlift hours.
       1.2.2. Units may utilize ANG O&M training flying hours for positioning and
       repositioning for Domestic Emergency Response within the 54 states and territories.
           1.2.2.1. T-4 mission based on Domestic Emergency Response will be executed
           within the wing flying hour allocation using reimbursable O&M flying hours.
           Reimbursement will be made by the requesting state or agency.
    1.3. NGB/A3 will ensure that each unit is allocated adequate flying hours for their aircrew to
    attain and maintain aviation skills necessary to successfully accomplish AF mission
    requirements, IAW specific MDS Vol 1/RAP training requirements.
    1.4. Units are responsible for planning, scheduling, and executing their entire annual flying-
    hour allocation. Wing commanders will ensure that a Flying Hour Working Group (FHWG)
    is formed, and meets on a regular basis. The FHWG will consist of, as a minimum,
    representatives from maintenance, financial management, and operations.
ANGI11-101 22 MARCH 2012                                                                      3


       1.4.1. It is recommended that representation from operations scheduling and
       maintenance plans and scheduling participate in all FHWG meetings.
       1.4.2. Unless otherwise appointed by the Wing Commander, the Operations Group
       Commander (OG/CC) or the Air Operations Officer (AO) will chair the FHWG.
       1.4.3. FHWG meetings will be held not less than quarterly. Meeting minutes will be
       documented and maintained in operations in accordance with (IAW) the web RIMs
       Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.1. NGB/A3 is the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR).
       2.1.1. NGB/A3E has the responsibility to manage the execution of the Air National
       Guard FHP.
   2.2. NGB/FM, NGB/A4, and NGB/A8 have coordinating responsibilities and are considered
   Office of Coordinating Responsibility (OCRs), for this instruction.
   2.3. Wing/Group Commanders will establish and ensure their local FHWG’s comply with
   the provisions of this ANGI.
3. Programming.
   3.1. NGB/A8 is responsible for programming the overall ANG FHP and then submits those
   requirements in the ANG’s Program Objective Memorandum (POM) request to the Air
   Force Corporate Structure. The ANG program becomes official once the National Defense
   Authorization Act has been signed for the fiscal year, at which point the ANG is authorized
   and is expected to execute its funded FHP to the maximum extent possible.
       3.1.1. The ANG FHP becomes funded once the National Defense Appropriation Act is
       signed.
   3.2. Program Element Monitors (PEMs) and Force Programmers will utilize standard Air
   Force (AF) methodology and lead command models when developing the ANG FHP, IAW
   AFI 11-102, Flying Hour Program Management. PEMs may validate unique training and
   mission requirements with NGB/A3 and other functional experts to ensure all requirements
   and concerns are addressed when developing the ANG program.
4. Model Development.
   4.1. PEMs and Force Programmers will use lead command models as directed in AFI 11-
   102. The model will consist of five core components: Force Structure, Aircrew Data,
   Requirements, Calculation, and Summary. For operational flying units, the relationship of
   these components expresses the mathematical description: force structure determines the
   total number of pilots, and pilots multiplied by requirements determine the total number of
   flying hours. For formal training units, the mathematical description is: average daily
   student load multiplied by the average number of hours per student per day, multiplied by the
   number of training days determines force structure.
5. Program Management.
 4                                                                 ANGI11-101 22 MARCH 2012


     5.1. Management of the FHP is among a flying unit’s most important peacetime
     responsibilities. The goal of the program is to provide the highest level of aircrew training,
     proficiency, and mission capability with available resources.
     5.2. Program management starts with the initial planning phase and continues through the
     year of execution including initial allocation, Budget Execution Review (BER) II at mid-year
     and BER III for end-of-year (EOY) close out.
        5.2.1. Planning starts approximately nine months before the new fiscal year (FY), and
        continues through the year of execution. During the year of execution, units may fine-
        tune their current year requirements at BER II (mid-year), and again at BER III EOY
        close out.
     5.3. Units should utilize ANG models and unit historic utilization rates for their specific
     weapon system when establishing their annual flying hour requirement. ANG models can be
     found on the ANG Flying Resource Management Community of Practice (CoP) web site on
     the Air Force portal.
     5.4. Planning is the cornerstone to successful execution. Accurate long range planning is
     extremely important for Headquarters United States Air Force (HQ USAF), Secretary of the
     Air Force, Financial Management (SAF/FM), and NGB/A8/A3/A4, in order to prepare
     forecasts for critical programs and commodities. Accurate unit planning is vital to unit
     funding and mission accomplishment.
     5.5. Once unit planning is complete and approved by the unit FHWG the requirements will
     be submitted to NGB/A3 using NGB/A3E direct format or other online reporting systems.
6. Allocation Process.
     6.1. Annual flying-hour requirements are established by the unit’s FHWG, and then
     forwarded to NGB/A3 for approval and allocation. These requirements must include all
     projected hours required to support operational missions, training, contingency/AEF
     operations, and TWCF airlift missions.
        6.1.1. The ANG flying hour program manager will review all unit requirements, verify
        funding, and coordinate approval with NGB/A3. Following NGB/A3 approval
        allocations will be distributed to the units for execution. It is the unit’s responsibility to
        verify that the approved allocations are correct and support the unit’s requirements.
        6.1.2. Annual allocations may consist of three categories of flying hours: O&M-T
        (Training), TWCF Airlift, and O&M-R (reimbursable) flying hours.
     6.2. O&M hours will support unit training and training based exercises.
        6.2.1. Incremental (O&M-R) flying hours support Higher Headquarters (HHQ) directed
        Operations, Operation Noble Eagle (ONE), PACAF TSP, Operation New Dawn (OND),
        or other operational mission so identified SAF/FMBO. Flying hours for these missions
        will be included in the annual allocation to the units as reimbursable hours.
     6.3. TWCF airlift hours may only be executed by AMC gained aircraft. TWCF hours will
     be included in the unit annual FH allocation if requested.
        6.3.1. Maximum TWCF levels are established in agreements with HQ AMC. Over
        execution must be coordinated and approved by HQ USAF/A3O and HQ AMC/A37TR.
ANGI11-101 22 MARCH 2012                                                                            5


   6.4. Changes to the allocation will result in parallel changes to unit fly funding.
      6.4.1. Flying hour allocations are authorized and adjusted at the following times during
      the fiscal year. Units will submit their requests for all allocations and BER adjustments
      using the NGB/A3E requested format.
          6.4.1.1. Initial allocation. The initial allocation is provided to units based on a
          validated requirement from the unit in the month prior to the beginning of the fiscal
          year.
          6.4.1.2. The BERII, or mid-year execution review, immediately follows the
          completion of the first six months of flying in the fiscal year. Units must review,
          confirm, and request their yearly total flying hour requirements and submit those
          requirements to NGB/A3 for approval to execute.
          6.4.1.3. The BER III, or third quarter execution review, immediately follows the
          completion of flying nine months into the fiscal year, normally the first week of July.
          Units must review, confirm, and request their EOY total flying hour requirement, and
          then submit those requirements to NGB/A3 for approval to execute.
          6.4.1.4. End-of-year or fourth quarter adjustments will only be made to support
          unexpected HHQ flying requirements such as OCOs, national or state emergencies, or
          natural disasters.
   6.5. Once a final allocation is approved units are expected to fully execute their allocation.
   6.6. In order to conserve resources, including aviation fuels, units should not schedule
   known non-productive sorties within the last week of the fiscal year for the sole purpose of
   executing their allocation. Effective scheduling should ensure that every sortie has a value
   added training objective.
7. Flying Hour Funding.
   7.1. Under the Cost Per Flying Hour (CPFH) reimbursement process, funds for Depot Level
   Repair (DLR), Element of Expense/Identification Code (EEIC) 644, and Fly Supply EEIC
   605 are not distributed to ANG Flying units. Units will receive funding for Fly Government-
   wide Purchase Card (GPC) EEIC 61952, Non-fly Aviation Petroleum Lubricant AVPOL
   EEIC 693, and for AVPOL EEIC 699. The CPFH funding for EEIC’s 644 & 605 are
   centrally managed by NGB/A4PY by weapon system PE. These funds are tied directly to the
   flying hour allocations authorized by NGB/A3 and actual hours executed during the fiscal
   year.
      7.1.1. The central management of these two EEIC's, 644 & 605, provides what appears
      to be free issue to the units, however, the NGB has the responsibility of managing the
      overall fly budget and costs will be expensed at Bureau level.
      7.1.2. For detailed funding guidance refer to the Weapon System Sustainment section of
      the NGB/FM Financial Guidance.
8. Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) and HHQ Directed Mission.
   8.1. For the purpose of this instruction, contingencies are defined as operations directed by
   AF Higher Headquarters (ie NORTHCOM, SOUTHCOM, CENTCOM, PACOM, etc) with
 6                                                                ANGI11-101 22 MARCH 2012


     tasking from a gaining MAJCOM through the NGB/A3X Operational Plans and Execution
     Division.
     8.2. All flying hours logged during deployment, employment, and redeployment phases of
     OCOs will be coded with ANG mission symbols for the specific contingency/operation being
     flown. Airborne spares and staging sorties will also log hours for the specific
     contingency/operation.
9. Mission Identification Number and Aircraft Utilization Codes.
     9.1. Mission Identification Number Guidance (Mobility Air Forces (MAF) unit’s only):
     Overall mission number guidance can be found in the MAF Mission ID Encode/Decode
     Procedures. The most current Encode/Decode guidance is located on the AMC A3OC
     website on the AF portal. A link is located on the ANG Flying Hour Resource Management
     CoP. The purpose of this paragraph is to bring to the attention of the users of this regulation
     the association of the mission number to the mission symbols that should be used for
     different types of missions. The third character of a mission number has a direct relationship
     with the mission symbol and assists in determining the correct mission symbol that should be
     used with the mission number assigned. This association is noticed most when the flying
     hour data is entered into G081 by the unit maintenance personal. The G081 system is set up
     to prevent the entry of incorrect mission symbols that don’t match system presets for mission
     numbers. Integrated Maintenance Data system (IMDS) does not contain these edit features.
     Incorrect mission number and mission symbol entries directly affect the reimbursement for
     aircraft operations.
     9.2. Aircraft Utilization Code (AUC) / Mission Symbol Guidance (All Units): Mission
     symbols are the means of tracking all that the Air Force and associated organizations
     accomplish with the aircraft assigned. Only ANG Mission Symbols from the ANG Master
     Mission Symbol List should be used on ANG AFTO 781 forms. The ANG Mission Symbol
     list can be found on the ANG Flying Hour Resource Management CoP. This list is updated
     on an as needed basis.
        9.2.1. For MAF units, in order to determine which mission symbol will be accepted in
        G081 and match up to the third character of the mission number, consult the G081 AMC
        Mission Symbol List. All of the symbols listed in this list are not authorized for use on
        ANG forms; however, this list reflects what third characters will work with the mission
        symbol. These characters are listed in the column labeled “3rd position” of the G081 list.
        There is a link on the ANG Flying Hours Resource Management CoP for the G081 list.
10. Non Contingency Deployments and Exercises.
     10.1. Non contingency deployments and exercises will use O&M training hours unless
     otherwise instructed by the tasking activity and coordinated with NGB/A3E. These missions
     may include CJCS, DoD, Air Force, and ANG exercises.
     10.2. Although units may receive AEF participation credit for these deployments, for the
     purpose of flying hour management, these hours are considered O&M and will be projected,
     allocated, and executed as O&M training hours.
     10.3. When supporting an exercise, the hours will be considered either O&M-R or TWCF.
     If you are participating and receiving training, the hours will be from your unit O&M training
ANGI11-101 22 MARCH 2012                                                                          7


   allocation. If the airlift support mission is tasked through the Tanker Airlift Control Center
   (TACC) as a support mission it will be a TWCF sortie. Unless otherwise directed, refueling
   missions in support of exercises will be O&M training and coded accordingly using the ANG
   Master Mission Symbol List.
   10.3.1. Use the AMC MAF Mission ID Encode/Decode Procedures instruction to determine
   compatibility between mission symbols, mission numbers, and funding type.
      10.3.2. Each AMC Mission Identification (ID) number has twelve characters. Only a
      “funded exercise” will have letter identifiers in the 8th and 9th character positions of the
      mission ID number. AMC publishes an Exercise and Contingency list that includes
      mission symbols and 8th & 9th character elements. These listings contain the two letter
      identifiers that correspond to each Exercise and Contingency with the official name of
      each event. The Exercise and Contingency lists can be found on the ANG FH CoP or at
      the 618th TACC’s website. Only those missions that appear on these lists are funded
      missions by AMC.
      10.3.3. Fighters, Rescue, and Special Ops participating in exercises will use unit O&M
      training hours.
11. Counter Drug/Narcotics (Federal and State) Support.
   11.1. CONUS Counter Drug (CD) operations in Primary Assigned Aircraft (PAA) or unit
   possessed RC-26 aircraft will be planned and executed within the unit’s O&M flying hour
   program. These missions will be coordinated and operated under the control of the state CD
   office. Counter Drug mission symbols can be found on the ANG Master Mission Symbol
   List located on the FH CoP.
   11.2. OCONUS Counter Drug/Narcotics missions will be flown using O&M-R AF
   reimbursable funding. Hours for these operations will be included in the unit OCO
   requirement forecasts and allocations.
12. Military Support of Civilian Authorities (State/Federal Directed Domestic Operations).
   12.1. The following information is provided for managing and documenting flying hour
   execution for support of civilian authorities in situations of state and/or national disasters or
   emergencies. These missions are those in which the main purpose is in direct support of non-
   military activities such as civil relief, mercy missions, health, communications, public works,
   and others contributing to the economic and social well-being of the state and nation. These
   missions may include aerial firefighting, hurricane, tornado and flood relief, and/or
   Emergency Medical Assistance Compact (EMAC) supported disaster relief, declared
   emergencies or civil disturbance operations. In most cases, these flying hours will be
   executed by airlift, tankers, operational support, or rescue type aircraft.
      12.1.1. Two scenarios will take place in order to support emergency relief operations.
          12.1.1.1. AF Tasked. The call for airlift assistance will be made from a state Joint
          Operations Center (JOC) or a federal agency i.e., the Federal Emergency
          Management Agency (FEMA), who may in turn contact the TACC at Scott AFB.
          TACC will then contact a unit and the mission will be flown as a TWCF airlift
          mission, and coded according to HQ AMC’s direction using an appropriate TWCF
 8                                                               ANGI11-101 22 MARCH 2012


            mission utilization code. Units should not seek reimbursement directly from the
            state for TACC directed TWCF funded missions.
            12.1.1.2. ANG Coordinated. The unit is tasked directly by their state headquarters.
            The ANG Crisis Action Team (CAT) may expedite the tasking process by
            coordinating requirements with available resources. Supporting units will fly
            missions utilizing unit O&M training hours. These missions will be coded as Military
            Support of Civilian Authorities, IAW AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, using T4xx
            mission symbols from the ANG Master Mission symbol List. Supported states will
            reimburse supporting units for flying hour expenses.
        12.1.2. Units will seek reimbursement at the “Public” rate as identified in AFI 65-503,
        US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, Paragraph A15-1., which can be accessed
        through the Air Force Portal.
        12.1.3. Unit flying funding will be decremented for state reimbursements made directly
        to the unit for flying hour costs.
13. Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF).
     13.1. TWCF hours provide economic airlift while accomplishing valuable training. TWCF
     hours are executed while performing Channel, SAAM, exercise or OCO missions. Execution
     is validated by flying hour data logged by units via mission symbols down loaded from the
     REMIS data system.
     13.2. A portion of the overall ANG airlift flying hour program is identified to support TWCF
     missions. The ANG does not have its own TWCF funding prior to flying the mission, but it
     does have an execution authority based on historic TWCF execution levels. The ANG will
     only receive funding for hours logged with TWCF mission symbols.
     13.3. TWCF hours are included in the unit’s total annual flying hour allocation. The official
     data source for validating TWCF hour execution is the REMIS FH data which can be obtain
     on the GCSS data service site located on the AF Portal.
     13.4. Units flying TWCF missions must use appropriate TWCF mission symbols in order for
     the ANG to receive reimbursement. These symbols are the sole source for identifying and
     documenting TWCF participation. TWCF mission symbols begin with the letter “C”, “L”,
     “M”, “P” or “R”.
14. Reporting Flying Hour Execution.
     14.1. Units must use mission symbols from the ANG Master Mission Symbol List. All
     squadrons hosted by an ANG Wing either active or reserve will use symbols from the ANG
     Master Mission Symbol List when performing a sortie in an ANG owned/possessed aircraft.
        14.1.1. ANG squadrons attached to Active Duty or Reserve wings will also use symbols
        from the ANG Master Mission Symbol List when performing a sortie in an Active or
        Reserve owned/possessed aircraft.
     14.2. Host unit ARMS personnel assigned to operations will ensure that all mission symbols
     used by their flying squadrons are on the ANG Master Mission Symbol List.
     14.3. Units will log flying time IAW AFI 11-401/ANG Sup 1, Aviation Management.
ANGI11-101 22 MARCH 2012                                                                     9


      14.3.1. The operations ARMS and maintenance Plans and Scheduling personnel will
      coordinate and ensure that those symbols used are correctly linked to the appropriate PEC
      code for their unit/weapon system in the G081 or IMDS data base. This can only be done
      by reviewing REMIS data.
          14.3.1.1. AMC gained units using G081 should refer to AFI 21-103, AMC Sup 1,
          para 2.28.5 for detailed instructions for tracking, reconciling, and reporting.
          14.3.1.2. ACC gained units using IMDS should refer to AFI 21-103, ACC Sup 1,
          para 2.28.4.
      14.3.2. If an incorrect mission symbol is entered, then an incorrect PEC is credited with
      the flying hour.
15. Flying Hour Reconciliation.
   15.1. The Chief of Aircrew Scheduling and Support Division (i.e. Current Operations,
   flying hour management) is the operations function responsible for verifying the accuracy of
   unit flying hour data.
   15.2. Flight Records or Current Operations will determine the accuracy of all aircraft
   utilization data as recorded on the AFTO 781’s or TDY utilization message. Annotate
   discrepancies on the daily utilization reports/flying hour audit list. The Chief of Flight
   Records or designated representative will sign the validation statement on the daily
   operational utilization report. Flight Records or Current Operations will coordinate with
   maintenance debriefing to ensure required corrections were made to the database.
   (Reference AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting, Paragraph
   2.28)
   15.3. The host unit ARMS office will reconcile the operations records (AFTO 781s) with the
   host unit A4 Plans & Scheduling Accomplishment Utilization Report (AUR) report. In
   addition to the normal AUR data, special attention must be made to ensure that the
   appropriate command PEC has been credited to the time flown in the local data system,
   IMDS/G081.
      15.3.1. Reconciliation should take place on a daily basis IAW AFI 21-101, Aircraft and
      Equipment Maintenance Management, Chapter 7. Reconciliation will also include
      verification of unit level data entered into G081 or IMDS, Aviation Resource
      Management System (ARMS) and compare with REMIS. Pay special attention to the
      flying time, mission symbol and PEC when reviewing the REMIS data.
   15.4. Unit level A4, Plans and Scheduling personnel are responsible for correcting errors
   found if within the allowable timeframe, or to notify the NGB A4 AVDO to have errors
   corrected at the command level.
      15.4.1. Unit level data flows from IMDS or G081 systems to the AF REMIS system.
      Once the data has changed and is updated, reconciliation must be re-accomplished. If
      units cannot make corrections locally, they should contact NGB, Maintenance Policy
      Division (NGB/A4MM) for assistance, DSN 612-8486.
16. Program Execution Measurement.
 10                                                           ANGI11-101 22 MARCH 2012


   16.1. The ANG flying hour program is measured in four separate categories; direct O&M,
   indirect O&M, TWCF, and incremental contingency. Each month a combined report is
   submitted to Air Staff which details reported executed ANG flying hours from all ANG
   flying units in the following categories.
      16.1.1. Direct O&M. Hours funded in the President’s Budget and flown for the purposes
      of aircrew training.
      16.1.2. Indirect O&M. Hours funded by external agencies such as the National Science
      Foundation, Foreign Military Sales, or Special Operations Command.
      16.1.3. TWCF. Hours flown in support of TACC tasked airlift missions.
      16.1.4. Incremental contingency.     Hours flown in direct support of HHQ tasked
      operational missions.
17. Association and Total Force Integration.
   17.1. Descriptions
      17.1.1. Classic Associate: When an ANG unit officially associates with and flies with an
      active duty AF unit on their aircraft, this is called a "Classic Associate" organization.
      Flying hours are programmed by both commands for their respective aircrew training
      requirements. Flying time is allocated to each unit by their respective command FH
      manager, and the flying time will be reported on the AFTO 781 using the mission
      symbols marked as associate mission symbols on the ANG Master Mission Symbol List.
      The associate mission symbol will have the appropriate ANG PEC assigned to it through
      IMDS or G081, and that PEC will properly identify the hours as being from the ANG
      program. ANG crews must use the ANG Master Mission Symbol List when selecting
      associate symbols for all training and operational missions. Cost of Business sorties will
      always be logged against the command that owns the aircraft regardless of who flies the
      mission.
      17.1.2. Active Associate: When the active duty is associating with an ANG organization
      and flying ANG aircraft, this is called "Active Associate". Flying hours are programmed
      by both commands for their respective aircrew training requirements. Flying time will be
      allocated to each unit by their respective command FH manager. The flying hours will be
      reported on the AFTO Form 781 using the designated associate mission symbol. The
      associate mission symbol will automatically link the time flown to the appropriate active
      duty PEC, and the active command will automatically get credit for the time flown. TFI
      (Total Force Integration) units will be considered "active associates" for these purposes
      and will use associate mission symbols assigned by their command.
      17.1.3. ARC Associate: When the AF Reserve associates with an ANG organization or
      vice versa, it is called an "ARC Associate". Flying hours are currently programmed by
      both commands for their respective aircrew requirements. Flying time is allocated to
      each unit by their respective command FH manager. The flying hours are reported on the
      AFTO 781 using the associate mission symbol that has been assigned the appropriate Air
      Force Reserve Command (AFRC) PEC. PEC will be assigned to the associate mission
      symbols by HQ AMC/A4 for G081 users, and by the host unit maintenance data system
ANGI11-101 22 MARCH 2012                                                                       11


      administrator for IMDS users. This is accomplished by IMDS or G081 representatives.
      AF Reserves will use the Associate Mission Symbols assign by their command.
18. Associate Program Guidance.
   18.1. During the year of execution all ANG units, including associate organizations, receive
   an annual allocation based on requirements previously presented by the individual unit to
   NGB/A3E for validation. Once validated, their requirements are then allocated and
   distributed to the unit for execution. Units are then responsible for training their crews and
   accomplishing their mission with their allocated hours.
   18.2. Associating units could have two methods for executing their allocations based on how
   they operate locally. One method is to integrate both organizations into a local flying
   schedule whereby crews are mixed as needed to accomplish their training and mission, and
   the other method is to train and operate as two separate organizations. Either way, units will
   need to document how the hours were executed based on local agreements and follow the
   established NGB guidance.
      18.2.1. CAF Guidance
          18.2.1.1. For CAF associate units flying fighter aircraft for training, the time will be
          charged by using the appropriate mission symbol for the command that required the
          sortie to be generated, regardless of the command of the pilot that flew the jet.
          18.2.1.2. For CAF associate units flying fighter aircraft for OCO missions, the hours
          will be charged by using the mission symbol for the command that owns and
          possesses the aircraft.
          18.2.1.3. If an associate unit is flying OCO missions on aircraft possessed by their
          host unit, the associate unit should use the associate symbols regardless of the
          geographic operating location.
          18.2.1.4. Cost of business sorties will be charged to the command that possesses the
          aircraft.
          18.2.1.5. Cost of business or non-training sorties. All cost of business and non-
          training sorties such as FCFs, air shows, depot or ferry flights, etc, will be logged
          against the command/unit owning/possessing the aircraft, regardless of the individual
          crew member(s) flying the sortie.
          18.2.1.6. Incentive, orientation, familiarization, and indoctrination flights should be
          charged to the organization/command benefiting from and generating the sortie.
      18.2.2. MAF Guidance
          18.2.2.1. For MAF associate units flying training missions, the time will be charged
          by using the appropriate mission symbol for the command that required the sortie to
          be generated, regardless of the command of the pilot that flew the aircraft.
          18.2.2.2. For MAF associate units flying OCO missions on aircraft owned by units
          other than their primary host unit, they should use the mission symbol for the
          command/unit that owns and possesses the aircraft.
 12                                                            ANGI11-101 22 MARCH 2012


          18.2.2.3. If an associate unit is flying OCO missions on aircraft possessed by their
          host unit, the associate unit should use the associate symbols regardless of the
          geographic operating location.
          18.2.2.4. Cost of business sorties will be charged to the command that possesses the
          aircraft.
          18.2.2.5. Cost of business or non-training sorties. All cost of business and non-
          training sorties such as FCF’s, air shows, depot or ferry flights, etc, will be logged
          against the command/unit owning/possessing the aircraft, regardless of the individual
          crew member(s) flying the sortie.
          18.2.2.6. Incentive, orientation, familiarization, and indoctrination flights should be
          charged to the organization/command benefiting from and generating the sortie.
          18.2.2.7. For MAF heavy/multi crewed aircraft, a determination will need to be made
          in the planning phase of the mission as to which command has the primary
          requirement to generate the sortie. That command will be charged with the flying
          time and will assign the appropriate mission symbol for the command to be charged.
          If in doubt, use the command that the aircraft is assigned to.
   18.3. Flying hours will be allocated directly to ANG units associating with Active Duty or
   AFRC units by NGB/A3. These hours will be programmed by NGB/A8 and funded using
   the ANG O&M appropriation.
   18.4. Flying hours will be programmed and allocated to the Active Duty/AFRC associating
   unit by their respective MAJCOM A3.
19. Fuel Efficiency.
   19.1. The ANG fully understands the significance of energy conservation, and the necessity
   of maintaining combat effectiveness. ANG units will participate in their respective lead
   command fuel efficiency program and/or initiatives using all programs, techniques, and
   procedures available from their “lead command”.
   19.2. ANG AMC gained units will use the AMC Fuel Tracker program located at
   https://mafops.amc.af.mil/FuelTracker <https://mafops.amc.af.mil/FuelTracker>             to
   track, measure, and report energy saving metric data. ANG units will also participate in the
   AMC Fuel Efficiency award program. ANG CAF units will follow and participate in similar
   ACC lead efficiency programs as they become developed.
   19.3. OPR for the ANG fuel efficiency program is NGB/A3. Recommendations and
   suggestions for fuel efficiency initiatives should be sent to NGB/A3O and include details for
   implementing the suggestion and projected savings.



                                            Harry M. Wyatt III, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            DirectorAir National Guard
ANGI11-101 22 MARCH 2012                                                               13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 11-1, Flying Hour Program, 10 August 2004
AFI 11-102, Flying Hour Program Management, 5 April 2002
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 7 March 2007
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 29 June 2006
AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting, 14 December 2005
AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, 17 February 2004
AFI 11-401_ANGSUP, Aviation Management, 9 May 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
AMC/A37TR—Air Mobility Command, Aircrew Operations and Training Division, Training
Resource Branch
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AO—Air Operations Officer
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System
AUR—Accomplishment Utilization Report
AVDO—Aerospace Vehicle Distribution Officer
AVPOL—Aviation Petroleum Lubricant
AVUM—Aerospace Vehicle Utilization Monitor
BER—Budget Execution Review
CAF—Combat Air Forces
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CJCS—Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff
CONUS—Continental United States
 14                                               ANGI11-101 22 MARCH 2012


CoP—Community of Practice
CPFH—Cost Per Flying Hour
DLR—Depot Level Repairable
EEIC—Element of Expense / Identification Code
EMAC—Emergency Medical Assistance Compact
EOY—End-of-Year
FEMA—Federal Emergency Management Agency
FH—Flying Hour
FHP—Flying Hour Program
FHWG—Flying Hour Working Group
FY—Fiscal Year
G081—IMDS for Mobility
GPC—Government Purchase Card
GSD—General Support Division
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
IAW—In Accordance With
IMDS—Integrated Maintenance Data System
IMT—Information Management Tool
MAF—Mobility Air Forces
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
NGB—National Guard Bureau
OCO—Overseas Contingency Operations
OCR—Office of Coordinating Responsibility
OEF—Operation Enduring Freedom
OG/CC—Operations Group Commander
OIF—Operation Iraqi Freedom
ONE—Operation Noble Eagle
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
O&M-R—Operations and Maintenance - Reimbursable
O&M-T—Operations and Maintenance Training
ANGI11-101 22 MARCH 2012                                                                        15


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PAA—Primary Aircraft Assigned
PB—President’s Budge
PE—-Program Element
PEC—Program Element Code
PEM—Program Element Monitor
PEX—Patriot Excalibur
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
RDS—Records Distribution Schedule
REMIS—Reliability and Maintainability Information System
SAAM—Special Assignment Airlift Mission
SAF/FM—Secretary of the Air Force/Financial Manager
TACC—Tanker Airlift Control Center
TDY—Temporary Duty
TFI—Total Force Integration
TWCF—Transportation Working Capital Fund
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UTE—Utilization

Terms
Air Staff— Headquarters Air Force functional area staff agencies.
Budget Execution Review II (BER II)— This is the budget execution review and
programmatic re-pricing activity which occurs at the midpoint of the fiscal year.
Budget Execution Review III (BER III)— This is the budget execution review that occurs at
the end of the third quarter of the fiscal year. During this exercise projected flying requirements
are re-addressed, and un-executed hours are returned for re-distribution.
Modeling— The process that commands use to determine specific Mission Design Series (MDS)
flying-hour requirements for programming purposes.
Over fly Credit— Over fly credit is achieved when a unit fully executes its total approved flying
hour allocation. NGB/A3 must approve allocation over-fly.
Reimbursable Flying Hours— Hours flown for other agencies or AF which are reimbursed
back to the ANG. These hours are flown in support of HHQ missions that are not provided for
within the ANG appropriation.
Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF)— A fund established to provide peacetime
airlift for external customers at a competitive rate with civilian carriers.
Office Symbols
 16                                            ANGI11-101 22 MARCH 2012


NGB/A3— Air, Space & Information Operations
NGB/A3E— Executive Support Services Division
NGB/A3O— Operational Readiness Division
NGB/A3OS— Operations Support Branch
NGB/A3XE— Deployments Executions Branch
NGB/A3XS— Support Branch
NGB/FM— Financial Management
NGB/A4MM— Maintenance Management Branch
NGB/A4R— Logistics Readiness Division
NGB/A4PY— Weapons Systems Sustainment Branch
ANGI11-101 22 MARCH 2012                                                                   17


                                        Attachment 2
       BUDGET EXECUTION REVIEW (BER) FLYING HOUR ALLOCATION
                       ADJUSTMENT REQUEST

A2.1. This format will be used as an alternative method for submitting allocation requests and
periodic yearly execution adjustments.

Table A2.1. ANG Unit Requirements.
                               Total           Total            Total
    MDS           PEC         O&M-T           TWCF             O&M-R            Grand Total




Table A2.2. AD/AFRC Associate Unit Requirements.
                               Total           Total            Total
    MDS           PEC         O&M-T           TWCF             O&M-R            Grand Total




 Note: Active Duty and AFRC will have a different Program Element Code (PEC) Wing Flying
A2.2. Hour POC:
   A2.2.1. Column 1: MDS (F-16C/D, C-130H, LC-130H, RC-26), Etc.
   A2.2.2. Column 2: PEC Code (Program Element Code) - Check with your MX P&S if you
   don’t know your PEC code. PEC’s are also listed on the ANG Mission Symbol Master list.
   A2.2.3. Column 3: Total O&M-T training hours.
   A2.2.4. Column 4: Total TWCF airlift hours. Note: Airlift units should combine all TACC
   tasked airlift into this category including CONUS and OCONUS.
   A2.2.5. Column 5: Total Overseas Contingency Operation (OCO) O&M-R hours. Note:
   Do not include TWCF airlift.
   A2.2.6. Column 6: Enter the grand total of hours you plan on flying for each aircraft type.
   Wing Flying Hour POC: Name, Rank, DSN, and Commercial Phone#.
