BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR NATIONAL GUARD INSTRUCTION
CHIEF NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU                                                    65-102

                                                                                      8 MAY 2012

                                                                          Financial Management

                                                 AUDITING IN THE AIR NATIONAL GUARD


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.
OPR: NGB/FMFP                                              Certified by: NGB/FM (Col Michael E.
                                                                                      Cheney)
                                                                                       Pages: 4
Supersedes:    ANGI65-102, 15 March 1995


This instruction prescribes policy and responsibilities for Federal audits of the Air National
Guard (ANG), including notification procedures, report distribution, and reply requirements. It
implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 65-4, Followup on Internal Air Force Audit
Reports and Liaison with External Audit Organizations;7 September 1993; Department of
Defense (DoD) Instruction 7050.3, Access to Records and Information by the Inspector General,
Department of Defense, 24 April 2000; DoD Directive 7600.10, Audits of State and Local
Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations, 18 October 2006; and DoD Directive 7650.3,
Followup on General Accounting Office, DoD Inspector General, and Internal Audit Reports, 18
October 2006; AFPD 65-3, Internal Auditing, 21 April 2010; DoD Instruction 7600.02, Audit
Policies, 27 April 2007; and DoD Instruction 7650.2, Government Accountability Office (GAO)
Reviews and Reports, 20 November 2006. It provides ANG-specific guidance and procedures on
the policies and responsibilities for deciding, monitoring, and closing findings and
recommendations for government audits. It also establishes procedures regarding the use of
audits to improve programs; make financial reporting more accurate; and ensure public resources
are used efficiently, effectively, economically, and legally throughout the Air Force. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                     ANGI65-102 8 MAY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
updates the audit notification process; redefines how audit reports are processed; and outlines the
procedures for responding to audit findings and follow-ups. It also updates the identification of
organizations involved in the audit reporting process to include updating the National Guard
Bureau Office of Internal Review and Audit Compliance (NGB-ZC-IR). It removes all reference
to the Commanders Audit Program (CAP) which no longer exists. It improves the arrangement
of information to enhance the flow and increase reader understanding.
1. Policy. Commanders at all levels will support internal audits as an important part of the
managerial control system. All personnel, facilities, reports, records, property, and/or other
information (classified or unclassified) deemed necessary by the auditors will be made available
for examination. Office space and facilities for auditors to use will be provided.
2. Audit Focal Point Information:
     2.1. National Guard Bureau Office of Internal Review and Audit Compliance (NGB-ZC-IR).
     NGB-ZC-IR will serve as the External Audit Liaison for NGB (i.e. Joint Staff, Army
     National Guard, and ANG) and will receive notification of all external audits from the
     applicable audit agency.
     2.2. ANG Representative. The Comptroller, Plans and Programs Branch of the Financial
     Management and Comptroller Directorate, National Guard Bureau (NGB/FMFP) Joint Base
     Andrews MD), will serve as the ANG representative for all government audits (i.e. GAO,
     DoD, Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA), etc.) and is the audit focal point (AFP) for all audit
     activities involving the ANG.
     2.3. State level. The United States Property and Fiscal Office (USPFO) will be the AFP for
     at State level for all Federal audits within their jurisdiction. As the State AFP, the USPFO
     will assign an AFP at each of the ANG organizations within their jurisdiction.
     2.4. AFP for ANG organizations that do not have an USPFO. The Directors (or equivalent)
     will assign an AFP for their directorate. Every ANG organization (e.g. NGB directorate,
     detachment, geographically separated unit, training site, etc) will have an AFP.
3. Audit Notification:
     3.1. ANG will receive audit notification from audit agencies in accordance with applicable
     Air Force Instructions (AFIs).
     3.2. If instances occur where proper advance notification of an audit effort is not received,
     and a surprise element is not involved, the ANG representative should be immediately
     notified through proper ANG channels.
     3.3. The ANG representative will contact the applicable audit agency to determine the
     reasons for the lack of prior notification and will obtain audit notification documentation as
     necessary.
     3.4. Upon receiving proper audit notification, the ANG representative will advise the
     affected unit in accordance with established guidance. This procedure is not intended to
     restrict audit activity, but rather is established to ensure proper communication as required by
     Federal statute.
ANGI65-102 8 MAY 2012                                                                        3


4. Reports of Audit. The audit reporting process/report dissemination process will vary
depending on the agency conducting the audit (see table):

Table 4.1. Audit Report Reference.

                                  Agency      Directive
                                  GAO         AFI 65-401
                                  DoD         AFI 65-402
                                  AFAA        AFI 65-301
                                              AFI 65-403

5. Reply to Draft Report of Audit:
   5.1. Management will reply to the draft report of audit with a statement of concurrence or
   nonconcurrence on each finding, recommendation, and potential monetary benefit.
   5.2. If management nonconcurs with findings, recommendations, or potential monetary
   benefit, the AFP for that organization must promptly notify the ANG Representative, the
   auditor, and applicable USPFO. The goal is to resolve all disagreement prior to the
   finalization of the report of audit.
   5.3. In most instances, audit agencies will allow management 30 days to provide
   management comments to a report of audit. On rare occasions, extenuating circumstances
   may make it impossible for management to meet the audit agency’s suspense for
   management comments. When management cannot meet the aforementioned suspense, the
   AFP must promptly notify the ANG Representative, the auditor, and applicable USPFO. The
   AFP will provide the audit agency complete justification for missing a suspense and request
   the audit agency extend the suspense Audit agency personnel will determine whether to grant
   an extension. Requests for extensions will be evaluated on a case by case basis and will not
   be routinely issued.
6. Follow-up on audit report. Follow-up will occur in accordance with applicable audit
agency instructions. Refer to paragraph 4 for applicable guidance.




                                           Harry M. Wyatt III, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           Director Air National Guard
 4                                                                 ANGI65-102 8 MAY 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI65-301, Audit Reporting Procedures, 28 May 2010
AFI65-401, Relations with The Government Accounting Office (GAO), 23 March 1994
AFI65-402, Relations with the Department of Defense, Office Of The assistant Inspector
Generals for Auditing, And Analysis and Followup, 19 July 1994
AFI65-403, Followup on Internal Air Force Audit Reports, 2 June 1994

Abbreviations
AFAA—Air Force Audit Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFP—Audit Focal Point
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ANG—Air National Guard
DoD—Department of Defense
GAO—General Accounting Office
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NGB/FMFP—Financial Management and Comptroller Directorate, National Guard Bureau
NGB-ZC-IR—Office of Internal Review, National Guard Bureau
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
USPFO—United States Property and Fiscal Officer
