BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR NATIONAL GUARD MISSION
CHIEF NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU                                            DIRECTIVE 10-01

                                                                                  7 JUNE 2010
                                                                Certified Current, 12 July 2012
                                                                                     Operations

                                                         AIR NATIONAL GUARD COMBAT
                                                         READINESS TRAINING CENTERS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: NGB/A3AC                                                         Certified by: ANGRC/CC
Supersedes: ANGMD 10-01,                                              (Col Michael McDonald)
            1 September 1994                                                          Pages: 11


This directive outlines the mission and responsibilities of the Air National Guard (ANG) Combat
Readiness Training Centers (CRTC).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision incorporates the organization and responsibilities of the CRTC Council and
Working Group. It outlines training programs specific to a site; references services provided in
accordance with established memorandums of agreement; and sets forth detailed information
concerning wartime tasking. This revision also incorporate changes in the ANG office of
primary responsibility.
1. Applicability. This directive is applicable to the ANG CRTCs, using units and supporting
agencies.
2. General.
   2.1. This directive defines those missions and the day-to-day function reserved specifically
   to the host states, and explains the control vested in the ANG.
   2.2. ANG is responsible for delineating mission requirements and programming for adequate
   resources. CRTCs are responsible for managing the resources to accomplish their respective
   missions.
 2                                                                   ANGMD10-1 7 JUNE 2010


3. Mission.
     3.1. The primary mission of each CRTC is to provide an integrated, year-round, realistic
     training environment (airspace, facilities, and equipment) for units to enhance their combat
     capability and readiness by:
        3.1.1. Enabling users to accomplish training which cannot be as effectively
        accomplished or is not available at their home station.
        3.1.2. Establishing a training arena that approximates a deployed, combat-oriented
        operating base.
        3.1.3. Providing a realistic setting for deployed Operational Readiness Evaluation
        (OREs) and Operational Readiness Inspection (ORIs).
        3.1.4. Providing a site for the following: Air Combat Training System and Electronic
        Warfare Training, connectivity for Distributed Mission Operations (DMO), Air Base
        Ground Defense Training, Medical Readiness Training (MRTS), Air Traffic Control
        (ATC) Training, Airfield Damage Repair Training, Homeland Security and Defense
        Training, Counter Drug Training, Regional Firefighting Training, Specialized Vehicle
        Training, Computer Systems Training and conferences. CRTC‟s also provide support for
        integrated training (i.e. Northern Lightning, Atlantic Thunder, Patriot exercises, Air
        Expeditionary Force (AEF) spin-ups, Close Air Support Exercises (CASEX), Site-
        specific regional and unique training, such as MRTS, at Alpena, Readiness Safeguard
        (ATSO) Training, at Volk Field and the Theater Deployable Communications (TDC)
        Schoolhouse at Savannah.
        3.1.5. Providing facilities, services, or programs in accordance with established tasking,
        memorandums of agreement or local CRTC instructions.
        3.1.6. Providing facilities, services, or programs to meet other state training requirements
        Identified by state headquarters (i.e. emergency response, local law enforcement, and
        homeland defense).
        3.1.7. Remain responsive to evolving training requirement driven by Federal and State
        missions.
4. Wartime Tasking.
     4.1. ANG will provide guidance and required assets for ANG CRTCs to accomplish tasks
     that are unique to a particular conflict. Baseline tasking supports various Air Force
     Instructions (AFI‟s), joint plans, other publications and support agreements.
        4.1.1. Alpena CRTC: Extend ATC and medical readiness/homeland response training for
        ANG Medical Groups tasked with the dual role mission of wartime support and
        homeland response. Provide air traffic control and other support to other CRTCs when
        aerial port of embarkation activities and other tasks result in extended hours of operation.
        4.1.2. Gulfport CRTC: Provide aerial port of embarkation services identified in joint and
        Service plans requiring use of Gulfport Municipal Airport in accordance with (IAW) U.S.
        Forces Command (FORSCOM)/Army National Guard (ARNG) Regulation 55-1.
        4.1.3. Savannah CRTC: Provide contingency support for Fort Stewart and Hunter AAF
        aerial port of embarkation and Savannah Sea Terminal port of embarkation.
ANGMD10-1 7 JUNE 2010                                                                             3


       4.1.4. Volk Field CRTC: Provide aerial port of embarkation services for Fort McCoy
       Regional Mobilization Center IAW FORSCOM/ARNG Regulation 55-1.
5. Responsibilities.
   5.1. ANG will establish overall policy for ANG CRTCs.
   5.2. National Guard Bureau (NGB), Air, Space and Information Operations Directorate,
   Airspace, Ranges, and Combat Readiness Training Division is designated the office of
   primary responsibility (OPR) for the CRTCs and will:
       5.2.1. Annually review the CRTCs status and provide recommendations on proposed
       policy or changes in requirements to the Director, ANG, not later than (NLT) 1 July each
       year.
       5.2.2. Provide guidance to CRTCs on ANG requirements.
       5.2.3. Coordinate CRTC issues with other ANG directorates through an ANG-level
       CRTC working group. This group will consist of a representative from each ANG
       functional area and formed on an „as-needed‟ basis. Each representative of the working
       group will be the primary staff element point of contact (POC) to work issues in that
       functional area for the CRTCs.
       5.2.4. Validate manning, organization, facility, and funding requirements.
       5.2.5. Validate utilization data.
       5.2.6. Review CRTC Unit Deployment Planning Guides.
   5.3. State headquarters will control CRTC activities through their Adjutants General and
   CRTC commanders. Due to their unique mission, CRTCs will remain stand-alone units
   reporting directly to the State headquarters.
   5.4. The CRTC Council will be used to enhance standardization, efficiency and capabilities.
   Specifically, the Council will aggressively pursue actions of general interest and benefit to all
   CRTCs and provide consolidated positions. Staff action will utilize a pool of functional area
   experts.
   5.5. CRTCs will perform their mission in accordance with all applicable directives and
   regulations and will:
       5.5.1. Manage facilities and resources to meet the mission needs.
       5.5.2. Publish a CRTC Unit Deployment Planning Guide based on this regulation. This
       guide shall outline procedures and specific requirements unique to each CRTC‟s
       operation. Included will be information reflecting CRTC capabilities.
       5.5.3. Conduct an annual review of their CRTC Unit Deployment Planning Guide and
       forward it to Chief, Airspace & Ranges Division for review NLT 1 June each year.
       5.5.4. Forward monthly utilization reports to Chief, A3A NLT the 15th of the following
       month. Information will be reported IAW Attachment 3 (utilization report will be update
       as required to capture necessary data as defined by the CRTC Council).
 4                                                                    ANGMD10-1 7 JUNE 2010


     5.6. Deploying Units:
        5.6.1. All units are strongly encouraged to submit a CRTC User Deployment Report
        (after action report, exit survey, or locally developed product), to Chief, A3A with an
        information copy to CRTC/Commander, NLT 30 days after their re-deployment date.
        5.6.2. The report should include the following where applicable: unit, deployment dates,
        purpose of deployment, total number of deployed personnel remaining overnight (RON)
        each day, whether lodging was “on” or “off” base, the number of aircraft deployed and
        the total number of sorties scheduled and flown. The report should include the deploying
        unit assessment of the support provided by the CRTC to accomplish deployment and
        training objectives and recommendations.
6. Scheduling Instructions.
     6.1. Scheduling conflicts or disputes not resolved at local level may be referred to the Chief,
     Airspace & Ranges Division for final arbitration. Chief, A3A and the CRTC commanders
     designated representatives shall closely coordinate all scheduling matters.
     6.2. Chief, A3A will sponsor the annual CRTC scheduling meeting NLT 1 March each year
     for the upcoming fiscal years. Major Command (MAJCOM) Inspector General‟s (IGs) and
     flying training units (FTUs) with syllabus-driven training deployments may schedule OREs,
     ORIs, or exercises up to two fiscal years in advance.
     6.3. ANG units shall have first priority for use of all ANG CRTC facilities when the initial
     annual CRTC schedule is set. Additions to the schedule afterwards will be at the discretion
     of the CRTC commander. Units involved in an ORI will have exclusive use of the affected
     CRTC facilities, equipment, ranges and training devices required to support the ORI during
     the scheduled period of the inspection.
     6.4. Non-ANG units may use CRTCs on a non-interference and cost-reimbursable basis.
     Once formally scheduled into the current fiscal year, they shall not be “bumped” without
     written direction from Chief, A3A.
     6.5. Normally, but not exclusively, after the CRTC schedule is approved by NGB/A3A, use
     of a CRTC will be on a first-come-first-served basis.
7. Communications. Established command channels apply except when otherwise directed or
authorized by competent authority.




                                           HARRY M. WYATT III, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           Director, Air National Guard
ANGMD10-1 7 JUNE 2010                                        5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
FORSCOM/ARNG Regulation 55-1, Unit Movement Planning

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADFAC— Air Directorate Field Advisory Council
AEF— Air Expeditionary Force
AFI— Air Force Instructions
ANG— Air National Guard
ATC— Air Traffic Control
ARNG— Army National Guard
ATSO— Ability to Survive and Operate
CASEX— Close Air Support Exercises
CRTC— Combat Readiness Training Center
DMO— Distributed Mission Operations
FOL— Forward Operating Location
FORSCOM— U.S. Forces Command
FTU— Flying Training Units
IAW— In Accordance With
IG— Inspector General
MAJCOM— Major Command
MRTS— Medical Readiness Training
NGB— National Guard Bureau
NLT— Not Later Than
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
ORE— Operational Readiness Evaluation
ORI— Operational Readiness Inspection
POC— Point of Contact
RON— remaining overnight
TDC— Theater Deployable Communications
 6                                                                    ANGMD10-1 7 JUNE 2010


                                          Attachment 2
 AIR NATIONAL GUARD COMBAT READINESS TRAINING CENTER ADVISORY
                       COUNCIL CHARTER

Figure A2.1. ANG CRTC Advisory Council Charter


ANG CRTC Advisory Council Charter
1 October 2009




1. The name of the Council shall be “CRTC Advisory Council.”


2. The purpose of this council shall be to:
     a. Evaluate, prioritize, and resolve issues relating to the operations, maintenance, structure,
     and support of the four Air National Guard Combat Readiness Training Centers and the
     Fort Drum Forward Operating Location (FOL).
     b. Increase ANG CRTC standardization, efficiency and capability by aggressively pursuing
     an agenda of general interest and benefit to all ANG CRTCs and the Fort Drum FOL.
     c. Provide information and advice to the Chief, National Guard Bureau, NGB/A3,
     NGB/A3A, NGB/A3AC, and other National Guard Bureau leaders on matters relating to the
     CRTCs and the Fort Drum FOL.


3. Membership: Council membership shall consist of nine (9) voting members made up of the
Commander and Chief/Senior Enlisted Manager from each of the four designated CRTCs and
the Commander of the Fort Drum FOL.


4. Quorum: Before transacting any council business, a quorum consisting of one (1)
representative from each CRTC, the Fort Drum FOL and a total of five (5) members must be
present. The NGB CRTC Program Manager will be included as a non-voting member of the
council.


5. Membership Term: The membership term for council members shall be for the duration of an
individual‟s appointment as the Commander or Chief/Senior Enlisted Manager of their
respective organization.


6. Council Officers:
ANGMD10-1 7 JUNE 2010                                                                             7


    a. NGB/A3A will provide support for a council secretary/recorder.
    b. Council Chair and Vice Chair will be selected from among the CRTC Commanders for a
    two-year term during a formally convened council meeting through use of open
    nominations and secret balloting, and will be decided by a simple majority vote. There will
    be a two year term limit as Chair, the Vice Chair will also be for two years and then move
    into the chair position for continuity of the Council. If the elected Chair is unable to fulfill
    the full term, the Vice Chair will immediately assume the responsibilities of Chair. If at any
    time the Vice position is vacant, a new vice will be elected at the next formally convened
    council meeting.


7. Council Chair Duties:
    a. Coordinate the agenda, time, and place to convene two formal council meetings per year
    and an appropriate number of intervening teleconferences
    b. Coordinate and identify Council positions and action items with NGB/A3, NGB/A3A,
    and NGB/A3AC
    c. Canvas voting membership and NGB Functional Area Managers for agenda items
    d. Ensure council members receive an agenda in advance of meeting or teleconferences
    dates
    e. Identify action items and POCs or teams tasked with resolution
    f. Track the progress of open action items and report the status at each formally convened
    council meeting or teleconference
    g. Identify issues requiring the establishment of Sub Committees or Working Groups and
    select a Chair for each to coordinate the group‟s actions
    h. Identify timelines for task completion
    i. Act as the Air Directorate Field Advisory Council (ADFAC) Representative for CRTCs,
    Ranges, and the Fort Drum FOL


8. Council, Vice Chair Duties:
        1. Ensure minutes are recorded for all formally convened council meetings
        and teleconferences
        2. Maintain an official Council record (Continuity Book)
        3. Act as the Alternate ADFAC Representative for CRTCs, Ranges, and the
        Fort Drum FOL


9. Meetings: The CRTC Advisory Council shall meet semi-annually or as called by the National
Guard Bureau or Council Chair. If time constraints or other factors prevent a formally convened
council, resolutions and positions may be accomplished outside the formally convened council
through telephone or e-mail coordination. Observers/Visitors may attend formal meetings and
 8                                                                  ANGMD10-1 7 JUNE 2010


teleconferences upon invitation from a Council member, but are subject to be excused at the
discretion of either the member who initiated the invitation or the Council Chair/Vice-Chair.


10. Voting: Given the small size of the council and critical nature of the issues addressed, every
attempt should be made to generate consensus decisions among the five chartered organizations.
Should formal voting be required, though, it is considered binding when agreement is reached by
3/5 of a formally convened council or 4/5 of the total voting membership if a formal council is
not convened. Agreements will be formalized by a show of hands (if formally convened) or in
writing (if polled outside a formally convened council). The resolution and vote count will be
included in the minutes (if formally convened) or added to the official record by placement in the
Council continuity binder. Commanders may temporarily transfer voting rights through
appointment of a designated proxy for either the Commander or Chief/Senior Enlisted Manager.
A proxy is designated by notifying the Council Chair or Vice-Chair and the proxy in writing of
the temporary transfer of voting authority and the period of time effective. Proxy voting
authorities may be limited if specified by the appointing Commander.


11. Sub Committees / Working Groups: Sub Committees / Working Groups will be established
by the Council Chair to address specific issues and will be disbanded upon resolution of the
issues driving their formation. Sub Committee / Working Group meetings will be held at the
discretion of the Sub Committee / Working Group chairman.


12. Council Reports: The Chairman shall furnish a written report within 30 days following each
council meeting or teleconference.


13. Sub Committees / Working Groups Reports: The Chairman of each Sub Committee /
Working Group shall furnish a written report to the Committee members within 30 days
following each meeting.




PATRICK C. WELCH
Chief, Airspace, Ranges and Combat Readiness Training Centers
ANGMD10-1 7 JUNE 2010                                                                                        9


                                                   Attachment 3
                                       CRTC UTILIZATION REPORT

TABLE A3.1. CRTC Utilization Report. (NOTE for shaded areas: Do not make entrees in
these areas.)


FY                               Oct   Nov   Dec   Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Totals


I. Deployments (see comment
for definition)
  a. User
    1) ANG                                                                                               0
    2) ARNG                                                                                              0
    3) AF/AFRC                                                                                           0
    4) Joint/DOD                                                                                         0
    5) Non DOD                                                                                           0
  b. Type
    1) ORI/ORE                                                                                           0
    2) Other Flying                                                                                      0
    3) Other Non Flying                                                                                  0
  c. Size
    1) Large      (>300)                                                                                 0
    2) Medium (100-300)                                                                                  0
    3) Small (<100)                                                                                      0


II. Airfield Operations                                                                                  0
  a. Transient Aircraft Turned                                                                           0
  b. Transient Aircraft RON                                                                              0


III Support, Services
  a. Training Days (see
comment for definition)
     1) ANG                                                                                              0
     2) ARNG                                                                                             0
     3) AF/AFRC                                                                                          0
     4) Joint/DOD                                                                                        0
     5) Non DOD                                                                                          0
  b. Bed Nights                                                                                          0
  c. Meals Served                                                                                        0
  d. Vehicles Issued                                                                                     0
10                                 ANGMD10-1 7 JUNE 2010

  e. JP-8 Dispensed (gal)
        1) Total JP-8 Dispensed
(gal)                                               0
    2) Fuel Trucks - Transient
Support                                             0
        3) Fuel Trucks - Defuels                    0
    4) Fuel Trucks -
Agress/Sm Unit Support                              0


IV. Financial
  a. BOS $ Obligated                                0
 b. DLR $ Obligated                                 0
  c. FOMA $ Obligated                               0
 d. Mil Pers $ Obligated                            0
  e. Security $ Obligated                           0


V. Manning
  a. Unfunded         Off\Enl
 b. Unfunded Civ Full\6 MO
  c. Traditional Guard Mbrs



VI. Site Remarks
 a. Total Personnel utilizing
CRTC                                                0
 b. Total # of Days CRTC
utilized                                            0
 c. Total # of Training Days
CRTC utilized                                       0


VII. Cancellations/Additions
a. Units cancelled due to
   1) Real world tasking                            0
   2) CRTC Double Booking                           0
   3) CRTC Cancel                                   0
   4) Other Reasons                                 0
b. Unit Addition
   1) ANG                                           0
   2) Non ANG                                       0
c. CRTC Personnel deployed
Off/Enl
   1) AEF                                           0
   2) Other Real World
(NE/OEF/etc.)                                       0
                                                    0
   3) Exercise Support (other
ANGMD10-1 7 JUNE 2010            11

than routine TDYs)


VIII. Site Specific/Unique
 a. RAPCON Operations        0
 b. Tower Operations         0
 c. Emerg A/C Recovered      0
 d. ABO/ATSO                 0
 e. Law Enf. Drug Tng        0
 f. JCSC
 g. APOE
 h. Drop Zone/ Assault
Landing Zone                 0
 i. MRTS                     0
