DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE            AT-R-09
AIR FORCE FIGHT STANDARDS AGENCY
7919 MID-AMERICA BLVD, SUITE 300
OKLAHOMA CITY, OK 73135




        AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL TRAINING SERIES




                           RADAR

            RADAR FINAL CONTROL (QTP)
  SIMULATOR QUALIFICATION TRAINING PACKAGE (QTP)

                           Feb 2007
AT-R-09                                                                                  1 Feb 2007


                                           FOREWARD



PURPOSE: This publication is for use in the training of USAF Air Traffic Controllers and is
not intended to replace, substitute, or supersede official regulations, procedures, or directives.




ROCKY A. SWEARENGIN, Col, USAF
Director, Airfield & ATC Standards




____________________
OPR: HQ AFFSA/A3AT
Distribution: F




                                                                                                      2
AT-R-09                                                                            1 Feb 2007


                      CORRECTIONS TO “AT” TRAINING SERIES

After completing this package, send recommendations, suggestions or corrections in an email to
HQ AFFSA at hqaffsa.a3at.@tinker.af.mil. Inputs provide valuable feedback enabling HQ
AFFSA/A3AT to provide its customers the best possible training materials. Inputs can also be
mailed to the following address:

            HQ AFFSA/A3AT
            7919 Mid-America Blvd., Suite 300
            Oklahoma City, OK 73135

Also remember to browse the ATC Training CoP for information on current training news and
products.




                                                                                                 3
AT-R-09                                                                               1 Feb 2007




INTRODUCTION: This Air Traffic Control (ATC) Qualification Training Package (QTP)
identifies the tasks required for completion of Radar Final Control (RFC) position training using
a simulator for award of SEI 365. The authorized simulators for certification are UFA and
Tower Simulation System (TSS) Precision Approach Radar (PAR) Gold. This QTP contains a
recommended completion time, knowledge and performance standards, mandatory scenarios and
certification procedures. It is designed to train, evaluate, and certify the trainee on knowledge
and practical application standards required for certification in the RFC position (PAR training
only) using simulation equipment.

DEFINITION: Radar Final Control (RFC) - An ATC service that provides navigational
guidance or approach monitoring during the final approach phase of flight. This service
normally includes precision approach radar (PAR) approaches, instrument approach monitoring
using precision approach radar equipment when final approach courses are coincident, flight
following, airport surveillance radar (ASR) approaches and safety alert services. Additional
services are provided within system capability.

INSTRUCTIONS: This QTP shall be utilized by all ATC radar facilities, without live PAR
capability, to train PAR controllers for award of SEI using simulator traffic only. It is not
intended to replace training programs that have the capability to provide live training and
certification. Controllers must have prior qualification in and possession of SEI 053, 056 or 364,
before being entered into RFC training IAW the Enlisted Classification Directory. Only trainer
qualified controllers, holding SEI 365, are authorized to train controllers in the RFC position.

OBJECTIVE: Using this QTP, the trainee will demonstrate knowledge and performance
standards for the PAR position. SEI 365 will be awarded after successful completion of training.
This training program is designed to train air traffic controllers, in the PAR position, using
simulation equipment only to support the war fighting mission. Training on the FPN-62 and
AN/GPN-22 equipment is not possible, with the UFA or TSS PAR Gold simulator, and will only
be trained to the knowledge level. Controllers will complete training on FPN 62 or AN/GPN-22
equipment at their first available duty station prior to PAR certification.

DOCUMENTATION: Trainers shall conduct and document training (periodic) evaluations
IAW AFI 13-203. Training evaluations shall be retained until SEI 365 is awarded.

TIME REQUIREMENTS: 21 calendar days.

KNOWLEDGE AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:                                  Knowledge and practical
application standards have been identified and written into each task. To complete this QTP, the
trainee must learn all knowledge requirements, and demonstrate a practical application of
procedures using simulated traffic. Eight scenarios have been developed and incorporated into
the QTP. The simulator scenarios progress from easy to difficult to ensure proper trainee
progression. All simulator scenarios will be completed and documented prior to position
certification.



                                                                                                   4
AT-R-09                                                                             1 Feb 2007


CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES: The trainee must pass a certification test with a minimum
score of 80%, demonstrate in-depth academic knowledge of scope setup procedures and
effectively control 5 PAR approaches, to include emergency and no-gyro procedures, to be
awarded SEI 365.

TRAINING STANDARD TERM DEFINITIONS:

Minor Errors – Errors that don’t cause confusion, airspace violation, or jeopardize safety of
flight

Minimal Assistance – Assistance is given to complete only the hardest parts of a task

Without Assistance – All portions of a task are completed but minor errors can occur

Without Error – Task is completed without error or assistance




                                                                                                 5
AT-R-09                                                                             1 Feb 2007


    Complete scenarios 1 and 2 for tasks 1 - 5.

TASK 1: Radar Identification Procedures/Handoff Procedures/Confirm Aircraft
Identification

STS: 7.101, 7.102, and 7.104
MTTR: 210, 211, 213

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the correct procedures for radar identifying aircraft
using primary radar, making and accepting handoffs, and confirming aircraft identification.
Complete CBT-R-9.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures for radar identification, handoffs, and
confirming radar identification without assistance. Practical application: Using correct
phraseology, accept radar handoffs and confirm aircraft identification without error.


TASK 2: Communication Check/Alternate Communications/Transmission
Acknowledgement

STS: 9.1, 9.2, and 9.3
MTTR: 262, 263, 264

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures to conduct communication checks with
aircraft on instrument final and radar final approach using correct phraseology. Explain and
demonstrate alternate communication procedures for RFC. Explain and demonstrate when to
instruct aircraft not to acknowledge further transmissions using correct phraseology. Complete
CBT-G-20.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures to conduct communication checks, alternate
communication, and transmission acknowledgement with minimal assistance. Practical
Application: Perform communication checks in RFC without error. Demonstrate using alternate
communications, and inform pilots when not to acknowledge further transmissions without error.
Demonstrate correct phraseology without error.


TASK 3: PAR Distance from Touchdown

STS: 9.4
MTTR: 265

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures to inform an aircraft of its distance from
touchdown using correct phraseology. Complete CBT-R-1.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain when to inform an aircraft of its distance from touchdown
with minimal assistance. Practical application: Use correct phraseology to inform an aircraft,
conducting PAR approaches, of its distance from touchdown without assistance.

                                                                                                 6
AT-R-09                                                                             1 Feb 2007


TASK 4: Vector Aircraft/No-Gyro Procedures

STS: 7.106, 7.123
MTTR: 215, 232

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures for issuing radar vectors and no-gyro
vectors to include when to instruct aircraft to make half standard rate turns, and what
standard/half standard rate turns are in degrees.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures for issuing radar and no-gyro vectors and
when to make half standard rate turns without assistance. Practical application: Using correct
phraseology, issue radar and no-gyro vectors to aircraft on final approach and complete a PAR
approach using radar and no-gyro vectors within PAR safety limits without error.


TASK 5: PAR Course Guidance/Glidepath Information/Trend Information

STS: 9.7, 9.8, and 9.9
MTTR: 268, 269, 270

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures to issue/discontinue course, glidepath,
and trend information using the correct phraseology. Complete CBT-R-1.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures to issue course, glidepath, and trend
information with minimal assistance. Practical application: Demonstrate correct phraseology
while issuing the appropriate course, glidepath, and trend information without assistance

    Complete Scenarios 3 and 4 for tasks 6 - 11.

TASK 6: PAR Glidepath Notification/Descent Notification

STS: 9.5, 9.6
MTTR: 266, 267

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures to issue glidepath notification and
descent instructions using correct phraseology. Complete CBT-R-1.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures to issue glidepath notification and descent
instructions without assistance. Practical application: Demonstrate correct phraseology to issue
glidepath notification and descent instructions as required without assistance.




                                                                                                 7
AT-R-09                                                                             1 Feb 2007


TASK 7: Wheels Check

STS: 7.58
MTTR: 167

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures to issue wheels down check and the
correct phraseology.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures to issue wheels down check without
assistance. Practical application: Demonstrate correct phraseology to issue wheels down check
without error.


TASK 8: Issue Landing Clearance/Landing Information

STS: 7.62, 7.64
MTTR: 171, 173

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures to issue landing clearance, climb out
instructions, relay tower clearance verbatim, and appropriate landing information.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures to issue landing clearance, climb out
instructions, relay tower landing clearance and appropriate landing information without
assistance. Practical application: Demonstrate correct phraseology to issue landing clearances,
climb out instructions and relay tower clearances and landing information without error.


TASK 9: Decision Height/Position Advisories

STS: 9.11, 9.12
MTTR: 272, 273

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures to inform aircraft when it reaches
decision height. Explain and demonstrate the procedures to issue position advisories and when
to discontinue position advisories. Complete CBT-R-1.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures to inform aircraft it has reached decision
height and when to issue and discontinue position advisories without assistance. Practical
application: Demonstrate correct phraseology to inform aircraft when it reaches decision height,
and when to issue position advisories at the appropriate times without assistance




                                                                                                 8
AT-R-09                                                                              1 Feb 2007


TASK 10: ATC Communication Procedures

STS: 7.6
MTTR: 115

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures to transfer communications.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures to transfer communications without
assistance. Practical application: Demonstrate correct phraseology to transfer communications
without error.


TASK 11: Inter/Intra Facility Coordination

STS: 7.7
MTTR: 116

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures to accomplish the required inter/intra
facility coordination.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the proper inter/intra facility coordination procedures with
minimal assistance. Practical application: Demonstrate correct phraseology to conduct the
appropriate coordination as necessary without error.

    Complete Scenarios 5 and 6 for tasks 12 - 17.

TASK 12: Disseminate Weather Information

STS: 6.3
MTTR: 99

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures to issue wind, weather information and
advisories.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures to issue wind, weather information and
advisories without assistance. Practical application: Demonstrate correct phraseology to issue
wind, weather information and advisories without error.


TASK 13: Traffic Advisories

STS: 7.48
MTTR: 157

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the correct procedures to issue traffic advisories.
Complete CBT-R-5.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures to issue traffic advisories with minimal
assistance. Practical application: Demonstrate correct phraseology to issue traffic advisories
without error.

                                                                                                  9
AT-R-09                                                                           1 Feb 2007




TASK 14: PAR for Approach Monitoring

STS: 9.13
MTTR: 274

OBJCTIVE: Explain and demonstrate when PAR equipment can be used for approach
monitoring. Explain the weather requirements to monitor approaches. Explain and demonstrate
what information to issue a pilot executing a non-precision approach. Explain and demonstrate
when to inform aircraft when passing the final approach fix/outer marker. Explain and
demonstrate what action to take if the aircraft exceeds the safety limits. Know how many
aircraft a RFC controller may control/monitor at one time.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures for approach monitoring using the PAR
with minimal assistance. Practical application: Demonstrate correct phraseology to conduct
approach monitoring using PAR without assistance.


TASK 15: Radar Approaches

STS: 7.119
MTTR: 228

OBJECTIVE: Explain and conduct radar approaches to include military single frequency
approaches.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain radar approaches including single frequency approaches
with minimal assistance. Practical application: Conduct radar and single frequency approaches
without assistance.


TASK 16: Approach/Arrival Clearance

STS: 7.115
MTTR: 224

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures to issue approach clearances to aircraft
and why it may be required by the radar final controller.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain procedures to issue approach clearances without assistance.
Practical application: Demonstrate the phraseology to issue an approach clearance without
error.




                                                                                             10
AT-R-09                                                                             1 Feb 2007


TASK 17: Wake Turbulence Separation/Sequence, Separate Arrivals/Departures

STS: 7.72, 7.76, 7.77
MTTR: 181, 185, 186

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures to maintain appropriate wake
turbulence separation minima for arrivals and departures. Complete CBT-A-3 and CBT-R-12.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain all separation minimums without assistance. Practical
application: Ensure/maintain appropriate wake turbulence separation without error.

    Complete Scenario 7 and 8 for tasks 18 - 22.

TASK 18: Formation Flights

STS: 7.79
MTTR: 188

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures to control formation flights in RFC to
include separation and coordination with tower. Complete CBT-R-6.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures to control formation flights, standard and
non-standard, without assistance. Practical application: Control standard and non-standard
formation flights ensuring appropriate separation and coordination without error.


TASK 19: Go-Around Instructions/Altitude Restricted Low Approaches/ Minimum
Distance Without Final Clearance/Missed Approach Instructions/Cancel Landing
Clearance

STS: 7.54, 7.56, 7.63, 7.66, 7.84
MTTR: 163, 165, 172, 175, 193

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures to issue missed approach information,
breakout instructions/go-around and restricted low approach information. Explain the
procedures when tower clearance is cancelled or not received.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures for issuing breakout, go-around instructions,
restricted low approach information, and what actions to take if tower clearance is not received
or cancelled without assistance. Practical application: Demonstrate the phraseology to issue
appropriate breakout, go-around instructions, restricted low approach information, and what
actions to take if tower clearance is not received or cancelled without error.




                                                                                             11
AT-R-09                                                                                1 Feb 2007


TASK 20: PAR Elevation Failure Procedures

STS: 9.10
MTTR: 271

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures available if the elevation portion of the
PAR equipment fails. Complete CBT-R-1.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures if the elevation portion of the PAR fails
without assistance. Practical application: Demonstrate the appropriate action/phraseology if
the elevation portion of the PAR fails during a precision approach without error.


TASK 21: Final Approach Abnormalities

STS: 7.98
MTTR: 207

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures that are required whenever the
completion of a safe approach is questionable due to safety limits being exceeded, position or
identification of the aircraft are in doubt, radar contact is lost or a malfunctioning radar is
suspected, or airport conditions or traffic preclude approach completion.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures required when completion of a safe
approach is questionable without assistance. Practical application: Demonstrate identifying
final approach abnormalities and providing the correct course of action when the completion of a
safe approach is questionable due to safety limits being exceeded, position or identification of
the aircraft are in doubt, radar contact is lost or a malfunctioning radar is suspected, or airport
conditions or traffic preclude approach completion without error.


TASK 22: Safety Alerts

STS: 7.49
MTTR: 158

OBJECTIVE: Explain and demonstrate the procedures for issuing safety alerts to aircraft.
Complete CBT-R-7.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain the procedures to issue safety alerts without assistance.
Practical application: Demonstrate the phraseology to issue safety alerts as necessary without
error.




                                                                                                  12
AT-R-09                                                                       1 Feb 2007



******************************************************************************

THE FOLLOWING TASKS ARE KNOWLEDGE BASED ONLY. PRACTICAL
APPLICATION STANDARDS ARE NOT TRAINABLE USING SIMULATION
EQUIPMENT. CONTROLLERS WILL BE TRAINED AT FIRST AVAILABLE DUTY
LOCATION ON AN/GPN-22 PAR EQUIPMENT. UNIT LEVEL PAR TRAINING
PROGRAMS WILL BE USED TO TRAIN CONTROLLERS ON AN/GPN-22
EQUIPMENT PRIOR TO CERTIFICATION.

TASK 23: Precision Approach Radar Capabilities

STS: 5.11
MTTR: 74

OBJECTIVE: Explain AN/GPN-22 controls and features. Complete CBT-E-5, CBT-R-1 and
AT-E-12.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain controls and features of the AN/GPN-22 and their
functions with minimal assistance. Practical application: N/A


TASK 24: Precision Approach Radar/Alignment

STS: 5.12
MTTR: 75

OBJECTIVE: Explain how to conduct pre-operation checks and ensure correct alignment.
Complete CBT-E-5 and AT-E-12.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain how to conduct pre-operation checks and alignment with
minimal assistance. Practical application: N/A


TASK 25: Precision Approach Radar/Turnaround Procedures

STS: 5.13
MTTR: 76

OBJECTIVE: Explain PAR turnaround procedures. Complete CBT-E-5 and AT-E-12.

STANDARD: Knowledge: Explain PAR turnaround procedures with minimal assistance.
Practical application: N/A




                                                                                       13
