BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 14-301
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                                  29 AUGUST 2008
                                                                       Certified Current, 17 August 2012
                                                                                         Intelligence

                                               SECURITY REVIEW OF RESEARCH PAPERS,
                                                TEXTBOOKS, AND RELATED DOCUMENTS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the Maxwell Publications and
               Forms Management Office AF Portal Web page for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR:           LeMay Center/INS                   Certified by: LeMay Center/IN (Col Paul Smith)
Supersedes:    AUI 14-101, 10 June 1994                                                 Pages: 3


This publication implements AFMAN 14-304, The Security, Use and Dissemination of Sensitive
Compartmented Information, and AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures, and
addresses DOD 5105.21-M-1, Department of Defense Sensitive Compartmented Information
Administrative Security Manual, and AFPD 14-3, Control, Protection, and Dissemination of
Intelligence Information. It applies to all sensitive compartmented information (SCI)
indoctrinated or debriefed individuals assigned to Air University (AU) organizations. It
establishes procedures for preliminary security reviews on all material intended for disclosure
that may contain SCI or SCI-derived information. This includes proposed public statements on
information derived from SCI or concerning SCI operations, sources or methods. More
specifically, it applies to academic research papers, professional articles (whether classified or
unclassified), resumes or applications for employment which detail technical expertise gained
through exposure to sensitive programs, contract proposals, internal command publications,
textbooks, and related documents that may contain information about sensitive intelligence
operations, sources, methods, or assessments.

Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is completely revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. This revision
details policy and specific responsibilities required for the protection of intelligence information.
 2                                                                 AUI14-301 29 AUGUST 2008


It specifies the requirement for annual security education for all SCI indoctrinated personnel
regarding the security review of documents containing intelligence information and designates
specific responsibilities of individuals at every level. Accessibility restriction was removed as it
is applicable to all AU organizations.
1. Policy. LeMay Center/IN is the OPR for pre-publication review of intelligence related
publications for AU. DOD 5105.21-M-1, AFMAN 14-304 and AFI 35-101 prohibit
DOD/military personnel from disclosing classified information even though this information
may appear in unclassified sources in the public domain. Appearance of sensitive information in
the public domain does not constitute declassification of the information. Accordingly, AU/PA
should coordinate on any documents derived from AU prior to public disclosure.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. LeMay Center/IN: Provide annual security education and training on responsibilities
     for security review and pre-publication review to SCI indoctrinated individuals.
        2.1.1. LeMay Center/IN will ensure that the appropriate personnel most familiar with the
        classification and dissemination controls of intelligence information review documents
        whenever there is any question regarding release.
        2.1.2. LeMay Center/IN will make security determinations within 10 duty days.
        2.1.3. Review determinations that cannot be made by LeMay Center/IN will be
        forwarded to HQ AETC/A2. Determinations that cannot be made by the HQ AETC/A2
        will be forwarded to HQ AF ISR Agency, who is the OPR for pre-publication review for
        the Air Force. Determinations forwarded for HQ AETC/A2 or HQ AF ISR Agency
        review may take up to 30 days.
     2.2. Commandant, Commanders and Supervisors: Establish an internal review mechanism,
     according to AFMAN 14-304, to preclude the disclosure of information concerning sensitive
     intelligence collection sources and methods in academic research papers, texts, and other
     documents prepared by personnel under their cognizance. This review should be made part
     of normal prepublication or academic review and grading processes of each school or
     organization. Questions regarding clarification should be directed to LeMay Center/IN.
     2.3. Individuals: AU SCI indoctrinated or debriefed personnel to include contract
     employees under the cognizance of the AU Commandant, who prepare any document or item
     which may meet the prior review provisions of the SCI Nondisclosure Statement, will submit
     one copy of such material to LeMay Center/IN (Senior Intelligence Officer) for a preliminary
     security determination. If approval for release cannot be granted by LeMay Center/IN
     because of possible SCI or other security implications, individuals will surrender all drafts,
     copies and notes which may contain SCI pending a final determination by MAJCOM and or
     HQ AF ISR Agency.
3. Adopted Form: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                              ALLEN G. PECK, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              Commander, Air University
AUI14-301 29 AUGUST 2008                                                                   3


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DOD 5105.21-M-1, Department of Defense Sensitive Compartmented Information
Administrative Security Manual
AFPD 14-3, Control, Protection, and Dissemination of Intelligence Information
AFMAN 14-304, The Security, Use and Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented Information
AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AU—Air University
AF ISR Agency—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information

Terms
Pre-Publication Review—A review of material intended for disclosure that may contain SCI or
SCI-derived information. Pre-publication reviews are reviews on all proposed statements on
information derived from SCI or concerning SCI operations, sources, or methods. This includes
resumes or applications for employment which detail technical expertise gained through
government employment in classified or sensitive programs which might contain SCI.
Release—(Noun) Information prepared for distribution to any medium that usually or regularly,
disseminates information or news to members of the public. (Verb) The act of disseminating
information in any medium.
