BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 16-102
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                                     25 MAY 2011

                                                                               Operations Support

                                                                INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/IA                                                            Certified by: HQ AU/IA
                                                                    (Mr. George F. McCarthy, Jr.)
Supersedes:    AUI 16-102, 14 May 2008                                                  Pages: 10


This instruction implements AFPD 16-1, International Affairs, and AETCI 16-101, International
Programs. It provides Air University (AU) and tenant organization personnel with necessary
program guidance on responsibilities and procedures in dealing with international programs,
including foreign military students and their dependents, foreign national visits, regional military
contact programs, lecturers, conferences, symposia, instructor exchanges, the personnel
exchange program, and with the disclosure of military information to foreign nationals or their
representatives.     This instruction pertains only to International Military Students
(Officers/Enlisted/Civilians) attending AU courses/programs and international military visitors to
AU. It does not apply to the AFRC or ANG. Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision: updates office symbols, program name changes, and makes various administrative
corrections. It also addresses redefined functionality pursuant to the AU reorganization to
include responsibilities of the AU Directorate of International Affairs (AU/IA), and the
Commandant International Officer School (IOS/CC).
 2                                                                      AUI16-102 25 MAY 2011




1. Policy. The Director of Air University International Affairs (HQ AU/IA) is responsible for
oversight of all AU international programs including, but not limited to, international
Professional Military Education (PME) students and international military personnel exchanges
at Air University Schools/Colleges/Academies, visits, foreign disclosure, and other AU programs
involving contact with foreign militaries, foreign governments, international organizations or
their representatives. Additionally, AU/IA serves as the appointing authority for the Maxwell-
Gunter International Military Student Officer and is dual-hatted as the Commandant of the
International Officer School, Spaatz Center for Air Force Officer Professional Military
Education.
2. General Information. Air University supports US national security goals by conducting
international activities that further combatant commanders, allied and coalition warfighting
capability, enhance regional stability, and foster building international partnerships and
partnership capacity. HQ AU/IA oversees these activities, providing assistance to AU
organizations (including Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT)), international military
students (IMS) and their families, and international visitors to AU. Further, HQ AU/IA provides
a central point of contact for, and acts in the capacity as, advisor on international matters to aid
AU/CC in accomplishing the AU mission.
3. Responsibilities and Procedures.
     3.1. Director, International Affairs (HQ AU/IA):
        3.1.1. HQ AU/IA is responsible for oversight, coordination, and advocacy of AU
        international programs and policies.
        3.1.2. HQ AU/IA:
            3.1.2.1. Develops, disseminates, and implements policy guidance for direction,
            integration, and supervision of AU international programs and activities.
            3.1.2.2. Appoints, in writing, an International Military Student Officer (IMSO) for
            Maxwell-Gunter AFB and confirms the AFIT Commandant’s appointment of an
            AFIT IMSO.
            3.1.2.3. Provides guidance and oversight of the AU International Alabama Goodwill
            Ambassador (AGA) Sponsorship Program.
            3.1.2.4. Provides guidance and oversight of the AU Department of Defense Field
            Studies Program (DOD FSP).
            3.1.2.5. Coordinates and tracks all visits to AU by international military personnel
            and other official parties involving international visitors to include orientation tours,
            regional military contact programs, and special events. Ensures visits directly support
            DOD and USAF security cooperation objectives.
            3.1.2.6. Represents AU to outside agencies conducting international programs.
            3.1.2.7. Reviews trend indicators, procedures, and surveys for international
            programs.
            3.1.2.8. Oversees the AU Military Personnel Exchange Program (MPEP).
AUI16-102 25 MAY 2011                                                                         3


         3.1.2.8.1. Appoints in writing (via letter or personnel core document) an MPEP
         officer responsible for all AU MPEP issues.
         3.1.2.9. Oversees foreign disclosure matters.
         3.1.2.10. Oversees the AU International Honor Roll Program.
         3.1.2.11. Coordinates with HQ AU Public Affairs Directorate (AU/PA) on any
         potential negative issues or events which may impact AU International Programs and
         that may result in adverse local, regional, national, or international media attention.
         Coordinates with HQ AU/PA for potential positive stories that can further promote
         AU International Programs in local, regional, national, or international media.
  3.2. Commandant, International Officer School (IOS/CC) is responsible for all international
  officer PME preparatory programs and support activities and functions within the Spaatz
  Center for Air Force Officer Professional Military Education
     3.2.1. IOS/CC
         3.2.1.1. Serves as Commandant of International Officer School responsible for
         conducting all International Officer PME Preparatory Courses.
         3.2.1.2. Plans and implements the AU International Sponsorship Program. (Alabama
         Goodwill Ambassadors).
         3.2.1.3. Plans and implements the AU Department of Defense Field Studies Program
         (DOD FSP).
         3.2.1.4. Provides guidance and oversight for the AU International Family Orientation
         Program (IFOP) and the AU International Dependents English Course (IDEC).
  3.3. International Military Student Officer (IMSO). The IMSO is responsible for
  management and oversight of all international students assigned to AU schools, colleges, and
  academies IAW the Joint Security Cooperation Education and Training (JSCET) instruction
  (AFI 16-105).. In performing these responsibilities, the IMSO is authorized to communicate
  directly with the Air Force Security Assistance Training (AFSAT) Squadron and the Air
  Force functional manager, the Under Secretary of the Air Force for International Affairs
  (SAF/IA). IMSOs must be appointed in writing and are required on station at both AU and
  AFIT.
     3.3.1. The IMSO:
         3.3.1.1. Maintains official personnel records and directs administrative actions for
         international military students (IMS) and exchange personnel on issues such as pay,
         mail, transportation, billeting, reports, and country requests.
         3.3.1.2. Reviews, plans, and implements an appropriate DOD Field Studies Program
         (DOD FSP) as outlined in the JSCET (AFI 16-105) and the Defense Security
         Cooperation Agency (DSCA)-DOD FSP Handbook.
         3.3.1.3. Conducts International Liaison Officer (ILO) orientation on an as needed
         basis.
         3.3.1.4. Formalizes, implements, and maintains a base and community awareness
         program for IMSs.
4                                                                    AUI16-102 25 MAY 2011


           3.3.1.5. Plans and implements the AU International Military Student Sponsorship
           Program.
           3.3.1.6. Provides AU staff assistance on international student, visitor, and faculty
           affairs.
           3.3.1.7. Escorts international students on AU-sponsored or approved activities and
           field studies travel (or assigns qualified faculty/staff members for escort duties).
           3.3.1.8. Conducts an AU International Family Orientation Program (IFOP), annually.
           3.3.1.9. Plans and conducts the AU International Honor Roll Program with AU
           Protocol.
           3.3.1.10. The IMSO is dual-hatted as the Dean of Students for the International
           Officer School.
    3.4. International Liaison Offices of Primary Responsibility (OPR). AU colleges, schools,
    and academies that have resident courses approved for international attendance must
    designate an international liaison office of primary responsibility to represent their
    organization’s interests and concerns with IMSs to the IMSO. These international liaison
    OPRs interface directly with both IMSs and the IMSO to ensure AU international program
    goals are met.
       3.4.1. The International Liaison OPR:
           3.4.1.1. Is designated to HQ AU/IA or AFIT/ENE by the school commandant,
           commander, director, or AFIT dean and serves as the single contact point with the
           school for international student affairs.
           3.4.1.2. Is comparable in rank or grade to the IMSs and works with the IMSO to
           resolve international military student issues.
           3.4.1.3. Obtains necessary orientation from their designated IMSO.
           3.4.1.4. Refers requests by IMSs, visiting foreign nationals, or other non-US entities
           for release of classified or unclassified military information to HQ AU/IAD or
           AFIT’s FDO.
           3.4.1.5. Refers special student administration or welfare problems to the IMSO.
           3.4.1.6. Forwards AF Form 475, Education/Training Record, or required training
           records, on each IMS to the IMSO not later than sixty working days after graduation
           date.
    3.5. Foreign Disclosure Branch (HQ AU/IAD). HQ AU/IAD is responsible for information
    disclosure in accordance with AFPD 16-2, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign
    Governments and International Organizations. The interfacing publication, AFI 16-201, Air
    Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, provides specific guidance.
    AFIT/FDO is responsible for AFIT foreign disclosure guidance at AFIT and receives further
    policy guidance from HQ AU/IAD when required.
AUI16-102 25 MAY 2011                                                                             5



4. Foreign National Visits. The Director, AU International Affairs (AU/IA), has staff
supervision of all AU international visitor programs. Official visits by foreign nationals to AU
normally are pre-approved by the Under Secretary of the Air Force for International Affairs,
Disclosure Division (SAF/IAPD) in accordance with AFI 16-201.
   4.1. AU organizations must inform AU/IAD of any foreign visit request, including direct
   requests to individual organizations and invitations by AU units or agencies. HQ AU/IAD is
   responsible to clear visits with SAF/IAPD through AETC Foreign Disclosure channels.
   4.2. AFIT/FDO is informed of all AFIT foreign visit requests, including direct requests to
   individual organizations and invitations by AFIT units or agencies. AFIT/FDO clears visits
   with SAF/IAPD through AETC Foreign Disclosure channels.
   4.3. Responsibilities for hosting international visits fall into one of three categories:
       4.3.1. International visits that include general officers or civilians of equivalent rank. AU
       or AFIT Protocol, respectively, is OPR for the visit; HQ AU/IAD or the AFIT/FDO
       identifies the POC to SAF/IAPD through AETC Foreign Disclosure channels.
       4.3.2. International visits of colonels and below or civilians of equivalent rank visiting
       multiple organizations. HQ AU/IAD or AFIT/FDO, hosts or escorts, as appropriate,
       provides visit purpose, background, US policy goals and other information to aid
       organizations in visit preparations. Each organization visited supplies a POC and HQ
       AU/IAD or AFIT/FDO coordinates on the visit through AETC Foreign Disclosure
       channels.
       4.3.3. International visits of colonels and below or civilians of equivalent rank visiting a
       single organization. The hosting organization designates a project or escort officer;
       AU/IAD or AFIT/FDO identifies the POC to SAF/IAPD through AETC Foreign
       Disclosure channels.
   4.4. Project officers coordinate with HQ AU/IAD and HQ AU/IAP on details of the visit
   itinerary, disclosure and visit clearance.
   4.5. HQ AU/IAD will coordinate each visit IAW specific Theater Security Strategies,
   SAF/IA requirements and other organizations to maximize AU outreach.
       4.5.1. HQ AU/IAD will develop and implement the AU Engagement Plan for visits and
       international outreach activities.
5. Regional Military Contact Programs. These programs are established to enhance US
security objectives by promoting a democratic orientation for regional military forces and
increasing US access and influence in a particular region. AU supports these programs by
providing teams for exchanges and by hosting visiting groups.
   5.1. HQ AU/IA is the lead agency for all regional military contact events and coordinates
   requirements and scheduling with other AU organizations. AFIT/IMSO provides support for
   AFIT involvement by coordinating directly with HQ AETC on such events.
       5.1.1. HQ AU/IA designates a POC for all regional military contact events. This POC is
       responsible for initial coordination of the event, support for the AU team members,
       consolidating and submitting the after action report to HQ AU/IAP within 10 days.
 6                                                                      AUI16-102 25 MAY 2011


        5.1.2. HQ AU/IA provides a checklist, assists with obtaining travel orders, and helps
        secure country and theater clearances to assist AU team members participating in
        regional contact programs.
        5.1.3. Requests for AU participation in regional military contact programs, including
        lectures, symposia and conferences, are coordinated with HQ AU/IA or AFIT/IMSO.
     5.2. Participants in regional military contact programs are responsible for:
        5.2.1. Obtaining passports, visas, and immunizations and necessary theater/country
        clearances.
        5.2.2. Ensuring HQ AU/IAD or AFIT/FDO has cleared all materials to be presented for
        foreign disclosure.
        5.2.3. Assisting with reciprocal events hosted by an AU organization.
6. Military Personnel Exchange Program (MPEP). HQ AU/IA is OPR for all MPEP
activities specified in AFI 16-107, Military Personnel Exchange Program (MPEP), exchange
program requests and coordinates with AU organizations participating in the program to update
position descriptions, request new positions, or eliminate an existing position. The AU program
pertains only to foreign officer/enlisted personnel filling exchange positions in AU schools,
colleges, and academies. HQ AU/IA appoints in writing (via letter or personnel core document)
an MPEP officer responsible for all AU MPEP activities.
7. Foreign Disclosure. It is US Government policy to treat classified and unclassified military
information as a national security asset to be shared with foreign governments and international
organizations only where there is a clearly defined advantage to the United States. It is also US
policy to avoid creating a false impression of its readiness to make available military material,
technology, or information. SAF/IA holds Air Force disclosure authority. Disclosure authority
is delegated to Air Force MAJCOMs by means of a delegation of disclosure authority letter
(DDL) through SAF/IAPD. AETC has redelegated disclosure authority for AU to HQ AU/IAD
and for AFIT materials to AFIT/FDO. HQ AU/IAD holds redelegated disclosure authority
through SAF/IAPD from the HQ AETC/IAD Foreign Disclosure Office for United States Air
Force military information under AU cognizance. The AFIT Foreign Disclosure Officer (FDO)
holds redelegated disclosure authority from the HQ AETC Foreign Disclosure Office for United
States Air Force military information under AFIT cognizance.
     7.1. Requests for documents containing United States Air Force military information must
     be submitted in writing to HQ AU/IAD or AFIT/FDO. Ideally, requests should be from an
     appropriately authorized foreign government agent or agency, for example, the country’s
     accredited military attaché.
     7.2. Foreign disclosure review does not apply to information previously reviewed by Public
     Affairs for security and policy and subsequently cleared for release into the public domain,
     nor does it apply to information previously released under the Freedom of Information Act.
     7.3. All AU course materials issued to foreign students are reviewed for releasability by HQ
     AU/IAD or AFIT/FDO, respectively. Once materials are cleared for disclosure, foreign
     students attending AU require no further authorization to obtain course materials.
AUI16-102 25 MAY 2011                                                                            7


   7.4. Guest lecturers will be notified by the respective visited organization if foreign students
   are present in lectures. The lecturer is responsible to ensure the material presented meets
   disclosure criteria.
   7.5. HQ AU/IAD coordinates on MPEP position descriptions and maintains all requisite
   classified delegation disclosure authority letters (DDL) covering those positions through
   AETC MAJCOM Foreign Disclosure Office.
8. Student Award of AU Badge and Certificate (AU Form 404, Air University Badge). The
AU Badge and a certificate, signed by the AU Commander, is awarded to international students
upon completion of an in-residence Professional Military Education (PME) course at Air
University, or upon completion of a graduate degree program at AFIT. Only one badge and
certificate will be awarded per student regardless of the number of courses attended per tour.
Students can earn an additional badge and certificate for completion of a subsequent in-residence
course. AU will not be responsible for replacing lost or damaged badges of former students.
Individuals will be advised where they may purchase additional and or replacement badges.
Students who do not complete the academic requirements for a diploma will not receive the AU
Badge or Certificate. These students will have their training report annotated to reflect they
‘attended but did not graduate’. Rationale for not meeting graduation requirements will also be
addressed in the training report. (See AUI 36-2315, Student Disenrollment Procedures).
   8.1. Ordering AU Badges is the responsibility of HQ AU/IA and AFIT/IMSO.
   8.2. HQ AU/IA is responsible for printing and distributing certificates (AU Form 404).
   Submit requests for certificates to HQ AU/IA at least sixty days in advance of need.
9. Issuing AU Form 197, International Officer School Certificate, and AU Form 857,
Certificate of Appreciation.
   9.1. Upon completion of the International Dependents English Course (IDEC), international
   participants will be issued a certificate of completion on AU Form 197. IDEC program
   volunteer participants will be issued a certificate of appreciation on AU Form 857.
   9.2. Upon completion of the International Families Orientation Program (IFOP),
   international participants will be issued a certificate of completion on AU Form 197. IFOP
   program volunteer participants will be issued a Certificate of Appreciation on AU Form 857.




                                             ALLEN G. PECK, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             Commander, Air University
 8                                                                AUI16-102 25 MAY 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 16-1, International Affairs
AFPD 16-2, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign Governments and International
Organizations
AFI 16-105, Joint Security Cooperation Education and Training (JSCET) instruction
AFI 16-107, Military Personnel Exchange Program (MPEP)
AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program
AUI 36-2315, Student Disenrollment Procedures
Prescribed Forms
AU Form 197, International Officer School Certificate
AU Form 404, Air University Badge
AU Form 857, Certificate of Appreciation.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 475, Education/Training Record
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSAT—Air Force Security Assistance Training
AU—Air University
DDL—Delegation of Disclosure Authority Letter
DOD—Department of Defense
DSCA—Defense Security Cooperation Agency
FDO—Foreign Disclosure Officer
FSP—Field Studies Program
HQ—Headquarters
IDEC—International Dependents English Course
IFOP—International Family Orientation Program
AUI16-102 25 MAY 2011                                                                        9


IHR—International Honor Roll
IL OPR—International Liaison Office of Primary Responsibility
IMS—International Military Student
IMSO—International Military Student Officer
ITO—Invitational Travel Orders
IO—International Officer
IOS—International Officer School
JSCET—Joint Security Cooperation Education and Training
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
MPEP—Military Personnel Exchange Program
PCE—Professional Continuing Education
PME—Professional Military Education
POC—Point of Contact
SAF/IA—Under Secretary of the Air Force for International Affairs
USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
AU International Honor Roll (IHR)—Program whereby former graduates of a formal in-
residence AU officer professional military education course, specifically AWC, ACSC, SOS, or
SAASS, are recognized for attaining the equivalent position of Air Force Chief of Staff or a
higher military or government civilian position.
Department of Defense Field Studies Program (DOD FSP)—This program affords an
opportunity for IMSs to become familiar with the United States, its social, cultural, military,
economic, and political institutions, and its people and their way of life.
International Military Student (IMS)—A national of a foreign government with either military
or civilian status with that government receiving education or training on invitational travel
orders (ITO) under the sponsorship of a security assistance program.
International Military Student Officer (IMSO)—The individual appointed to provide
administrative support and assistance to IMSs.
International Liaison Office of Primary Responsibility (IL OPR)—The US individual within
a school/college/academy with the responsibility to assist the IMSs assigned to that specific
school/college/academy.
AU International Dependents English Course (IDEC)—Program designed to assist
international dependents improve their conversational English skills.
 10                                                                  AUI16-102 25 MAY 2011


AU International Family Orientation Program (IFOP)—Program to assist the families of
IMSs to become familiar with the local area and its customs, as well as the social and day-to-day
requirements while living in the US.
Foreign Disclosure—Release of US military information or materials to foreign governments,
international organizations, or their duly authorized representatives.
Military Personnel Exchange Program (MPEP)—The assignment of foreign military
personnel to faculty and advisory positions with United States Air Force schools and
organizations. These typically are matched by a United States Air Force military member being
assigned to a similar position in the service of another country’s Air Force. The governing
document for this program is AFI 16-107, Military Personnel Exchange Program (MPEP).
