BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 14-202
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                          27 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                         INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO AIR
                                                                         UNIVERSITY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: LeMay Center/IN                                             Certified by: LeMay Center/IN
                                                                             (Col Jill Singleton)
                                                                                         Pages: 9


This instruction implements AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures. It outlines the roles
and responsibilities of the Intelligence Directorate as the Air University (AU) Headquarters
(AU/A2) and as a directorate assigned to the LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and
Education. It also delineates additional responsibilities of the AU/A2 as the AU Senior
Intelligence Officer (AU/SIO). Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
This publication applies to Air University and 42d Air Base Wing units/organizations; it does not
apply to AFRC, ANG, or tenant units.

1. General Information:
   1.1. Mission Statement: The LeMay Center/IN directorate supports doctrine development,
   coordination of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) publications, and AU
   education wargames and exercises. It also assists in the development of ISR curriculum and
   provides ISR instruction and subject matter experts (SME) for AU professional military
   education (PME) and professional continuing education (PCE) at all levels of learning, to
   include officer accession training. Additionally, it manages the AU Special Security Office
   (SSO) and maintains Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (TS/SCI)
   networks/video teleconference (VTC) capabilities for AU.
 2                                                          AUI14-202 27 DECEMBER 2011


     1.2. Background: To reduce duplication of effort and create better synergy, intelligence
     support throughout AU was consolidated by direction of AU Program Action Directive 88-2,
     and was placed within the College of Aerospace Doctrine, Research and Education
     (CADRE) in 1988. In 2007, CADRE/IN became the LeMay Center Intelligence Directorate
     (LeMay Center/IN) when CADRE and the former Air Force Doctrine Center merged to form
     the LeMay Center. This AUI is intended to clarify responsibilities and expectations for
     intelligence-related support across AU based on the PAD and the 2008 LeMay Center OCR.
     1.3. Organization:
        1.3.1. LeMay Center/IN: The Intelligence Directorate is assigned to the LeMay Center
        as LeMay Center/IN to support doctrine development, assist in the planning and
        execution of educational wargames/exercises conducted by AU, and develop/teach ISR
        curriculum for AU PME/PCE resident and distance-learning programs. LeMay
        Center/IN is organized according to the following divisions:
            1.3.1.1. Applications Division (INA):        LeMay Center/INA supports AU in
            developing and providing ISR application-level education and assists in the planning
            and execution of wargames and exercises. It also supports doctrine development with
            ISR research/analysis and coordinates on all ISR-related doctrine publications.
            1.3.1.2. Education Division (INE): LeMay Center/INE supports AU in developing
            and providing ISR specific education and SMEs in support of PME/PCE curriculum.
            It also supports AU with topical/current intelligence presentations tied to PME/PCE
            lesson plans.
            1.3.1.3. Security Division (INS): LeMay Center/INS manages the SSO Program for
            AU and Maxwell AFB. It administers the end-to-end security program for SCI
            personnel, information, computers and facilities, and operates/maintains all SCI
            systems/VTCs.
        1.3.2. AU/A2: AU/A2 directs SCI programs to include the SSO and Joint Worldwide
        Intelligence Communication System (JWICS); provides intelligence support to planning
        and programming; ensures readiness of ISR resources; and, provides policy and direction
        for ISR activities impacting AU. In addition, the AU/A2 executes SIO duties as the AU
        intelligence career field functional manager in accordance with AFI 14-202v3, Chapters
        1.3 and 4.2.
2. LeMay Center Director of Intelligence (LeMay Center/IN) Responsibilities.
     2.1. LeMay Center/IN Overview: The Intelligence Directorate is assigned to the LeMay
     Center and provides a majority of its support to the LeMay Center mission; however, it also
     supports other AU education programs. The senior member of the office, in addition to
     duties as the AU/A2, is designated as the LeMay Center/IN and is supervised by the LeMay
     Center/CC.
     2.2. The LeMay Center/IN provides ISR subject matter experts (SMEs) to the LeMay
     Center’s three primary mission areas: doctrine, education and wargaming.
        2.2.1. Support to Doctrine Development: The LeMay Center/IN advises the LeMay
        Center/CC and the Doctrine Development Directorate (LeMay Center/DD) on ISR-
        related matters and changes to the intelligence community as they relate to doctrine,
AUI14-202 27 DECEMBER 2011                                                                   3


     education, and operational lessons learned. Accordingly, LeMay Center/IN supports
     LeMay Center/DD with SMEs to help write, research, and analyze ISR doctrine in
     accordance with AFI 10-1301. LeMay Center/IN coordinates on joint, service,
     interagency and multinational ISR specific doctrine publications. LeMay Center/IN
     maintains awareness of issues regarding ISR doctrine publications and participates in Air
     Force Doctrine Working Group meetings and Air Force Doctrine Writing Committee
     meetings as required.
     2.2.2. Support to Wargaming: LeMay Center/IN assists the Warfighting Applications
     Directorate (LeMay Center/WA) in developing scenarios and building red force order of
     battle (OB) and blue force ISR OB. The LeMay Center/IN is lead for providing ISR
     application education to AU students playing ISR roles during IDE/SDE wargames (e.g.,
     Joint Land, Air, Sea Strategy Exercise (JLASS-EX), Global Challenge, etc). During the
     wargame season (Apr-May), LeMay Center/IN assists with ISR SMEs who serve as
     controllers in the Requests for Information and Opposing Force cells. LeMay Center/IN
     participates as required in Wargame Integration Groups, JLASS-EX Steering Groups, and
     Wargame In-Progress Team meetings. LeMay Center/IN also coordinates on all
     Wargame Requirements Documents and Exercise Design Documents and ensures all ISR
     requirements are captured and included in the Intelligence Requirements Document
     (IRD).
     2.2.3. Support to Education: LeMay Center/IN supports both LeMay Center educational
     programs and, as resources permit, other educational programs throughout AU.
        2.2.3.1. LeMay Center/IN supports the Warfighting Education Directorate (LeMay
        Center/WE) with ISR expertise and develops/presents ISR curriculum and instruction
        for LeMay Center PCE courses in accordance with AFI 10-1301, Air Force Doctrine,
        and Air Force Education Requirements Board. Specifically, LeMay Center/IN
        provides ISR lectures for the Joint Air Operations Planning Course and the
        Information Operations Fundamentals Application Course, and supports Flag Officer
        courses with SCI materials/read files and SCI VTCs as required. LeMay Center/IN
        also participates in the LeMay Center Education Program Review Board and
        coordinates on the Continuum of Education Strategic Guidance, the AU Faculty
        Handbook and the AU Catalogue.
        2.2.3.2. LeMay Center/IN also supports AU with ISR-related courses and course
        materials as resources permit. As adjunct faculty, LeMay Center/IN SMEs
        develop/present ISR electives, lectures and topical briefs in support of graduate-level
        PME/PCE colleges and/or accredited centers around AU's academic circle. LeMay
        Center/IN personnel are responsible for attaining the appropriate education
        qualifications. Adjunct faculty folders are maintained by the respective schools
        where LeMay Center/IN faculty teach. ISR course objectives and desired learning
        outcomes will align with Officer Professional Military Education Policy, Joint PME,
        CJCS Special Areas of Emphasis, and AU Continuum of Officer and Enlisted
        Professional Military Education Strategic Guidance.
        2.2.3.3. Prior to each academic year (AY), LeMay Center/IN will develop an
        Intelligence Requirements Document (IRD) to identify ISR support requirements for
        schools and centers across AU.       The IRD ensures ISR requirements for
 4                                                           AUI14-202 27 DECEMBER 2011


            education/wargame support are vetted against available resources for the next AY.
            These include SCIF space availability, wargame requirements, ISR education
            lectures/electives, and topical briefings supporting AU, Spaatz Center, LeMay Center,
            and Eaker Center PME/PCE curricula.
3. Air University/A2 Special Security Office Responsibilities:
     3.1. AU/A2 manages the SSO Program for AU/CC in accordance with DOD 5105.21-M-1,
     Sensitive Compartmented Information Administrative Security Manual, AFMAN 14-304,
     Security, Use, and Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented Information, and AUI 14-301,
     Security Review of Research Papers, Textbooks, and Related Documents. The SSO supports
     every Maxwell AFB unit and AU centers/schools to include the Air Force Institute of
     Technology (AFIT) and Air Force Fellowship Programs. Through the SSO, the AU/A2:
        3.1.1. Provides day-to-day operational assistance and interpretation of established policy
        governing the security, use, and dissemination of TS/SCI. This includes developing
        policy and administering the security review of ISR classified material pertaining to AU
        research work and publications.
        3.1.2. Conducts base-level operation and maintenance for the JWICS and TS/SCI VTC
        suite, which is owned and operated by the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA). SSO
        ensures that Maxwell AFB remains connected through JWICS to the DoD Intelligence
        Information Systems (DODISS).
        3.1.3. Administers the SCI personnel, physical, information, industrial and computer
        security programs, and conducts staff assistance visits.        The SSO coordinates
        requirements pertaining to these programs by Memorandums of Understanding with
        special security representatives (SSRs) designated by the unit commanders or AU
        school/center equivalents requiring SCI. These SCI security programs are maintained in
        accordance with multiple DoD/USAF regulations/manuals and are inspected periodically
        by DIA.
            3.1.3.1. SCI Personnel Security Program: SSO is responsible for managing SCI
            billets for permanent party AU/Wing instructors & staff personnel, and SCI
            billets/personnel for students attending Air War College, Air Command & Staff
            College, School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, AFIT, and the Air Force
            Fellows Program.       For students, SSO is responsible for conducting mass
            indoctrinations and debriefings at the beginning and end of each academic year. SSO
            will schedule and conduct indoctrinations and debriefings as needed for permanent
            party members.
            3.1.3.2. SCI Physical Security Program: SSO manages three accredited SCI facilities
            (SCIFs) and four temporary secure working areas (TSWAs). SSO provides training
            and day-to-day guidance on facility management to designated SSRs.
            3.1.3.3. SCI Information Security Program: SSO is responsible for all SCI material at
            Maxwell AFB and provides SCI classification management, document control,
            courier designation and disposition of security violations for which an inquiry or
            investigation official may be appointed. Only a SCIF or a TSWA is authorized for
            processing and discussing SCI material.
AUI14-202 27 DECEMBER 2011                                                                  5


            3.1.3.3.1. SCI Media Control: Only members of the SSO staff can introduce
            media into the JWICS. Media introduced into the system must be properly
            scanned, reviewed, marked TS/SCI, and entered/documented into the SCI control
            system. TS/SCI media will not leave the SCIF without the consent of the SSO.
            3.1.3.3.2. Transporting SCI: SCI will be transported on Maxwell AFB by
            individuals designated as SCI couriers by the SIO or SSO. During flag officer
            courses or Spaatz Center academic briefings, only the SSO staff or designated
            carriers can transport SCI material between the SCIF and TSWA. Authorized
            personnel will ensure that the material in their possession is properly marked and
            secured. The SSO will use the Defense Courier Service for sending and receiving
            SCI that cannot be sent over JWICS.
            3.1.3.3.3. SCI Presentations & VTCs: SSO personnel will ensure that checklists
            are current and enforced for TS/SCI lectures conducted in SCIFs & TSWAs. This
            includes audio/visual control rooms for TS/SCI lectures held in conference
            rooms/auditoriums that have a record/transmit capability beyond the TSWA.
            SSO personnel will train cleared audio/visual personnel and enforce appropriate
            TS/SCI security procedures.
        3.1.3.4. SCI Industrial Security Program: SSO also conducts all indoctrinations and
        debriefings for Maxwell AFB contractor personnel and maintains personnel security
        accountability on contracts let by AFIT that require SCI access.
        3.1.3.5. SCI Computer Security Program:            SSO maintains JWICS network
        certification and accreditation and prepares for DIA and Air Force Service Certifying
        Office periodic inspections.
     3.1.4. SSO is responsible for scheduling and de-conflicting its two TS/SCI conference
     rooms, JWICS/SIPRNET information systems, and TS/SCI VTC suite in support of
     LeMay Center, AU, and Maxwell AFB missions. If there is a conflict in scheduling SCI
     personnel, systems or facilities, the following events take priority:
     3.1.4. 1 Flag Officer and Senior Executive Service courses frequently conduct TS/SCI
     discussions and/or require TS/SCI VTCs to connect with high-level government officials
     who are unable to attend these courses in person. Other Flag-level VTCs not included
     here also take precedent.
        3.1.4.2. TS/SCI lectures and electives in support of Spaatz and Eaker Centers’
        PME/PCE missions are scheduled months in advance and impact multiple
        organizations, students, and faculty. Schedules should be modified only if it is
        absolutely necessary and with advanced coordination with the appropriate faculty and
        schools/centers.
        3.1.4.3. SSO “mass” indoctrinations and/or debriefs are coordinated with the center
        security managers and occur at the beginning and end of the academic year.
        3.1.4.4. Visiting SIOs frequently provide TS/SCI lectures and/or ISR mentoring
        sessions to 14Ns when they are visiting AU on other business. These sessions can be
        arranged around their agenda and existing conference room schedules.
 6                                                            AUI14-202 27 DECEMBER 2011


        3.1.5. To conduct the SSO mission, the AU/A2 manages funds provided by USAF/A2
        Program Element Code (PEC) 027431. SCI management is a unique responsibility and
        SSO personnel will not be assigned additional duties or details that conflict or interfere
        with the performance of SCI control responsibilities (DOD 5105.21-M-1).
     3.2. Furthermore, the AU/A2 advises the AU/CC on specific matters pertaining to ISR
     missions, organization, systems, funding, manpower and personnel as required. AU/A2 is
     office of primary responsibility for the following AUIs: AUI 14-202, Intelligence Support to
     Air University and AUI 14-301, Security Review of Research Papers, Textbooks and Related
     Documents.
4. Facilities, Systems, Funding, Program Management and Reserves:
     4.1. Facilities. The intelligence directorate is located in Building 1406, Room 218. Building
     maintenance and facility security and lockup is controlled by LeMay Center/WA, but LeMay
     Center/IN retains access, control, and security of the SCIF (room 218), which is TS/SCI.
     LeMay Center/IN personnel will receive training and be provided appropriate building
     combinations for Building 1406 and room 218 for access before or after normal duty hours.
        4.1.1. The SSO also manages SCIF spaces in Buildings 804 and 1400A. Specific
        security responsibilities between the SSO and SSRs are outlined by memorandum of
        agreement.
        4.1.2. During times of catastrophic power failure, LeMay Center/IN is responsible for
        manning Room 218, while the SSRs are responsible for their respective SCIF areas.
     4.2. Systems. SSO does not support the unclassified or secret systems on Maxwell AFB,
     which are components of the base network and therefore managed by the 42 ABW.
     4.3. Funding. Funding for SSO activities and TS/SCI systems (PEC 027431) is appropriated
     under the Military Intelligence Program (MIP) to support DoD ISR-specific programs,
     projects, or activities. PEC 027431 funds are only authorized for MIP expenditures. O&M
     funds for non-SSO activities (doctrine, education, wargames) are provided by the LeMay
     Center.
     4.4. Program Management. LeMay Center/IN ensures the appointment and execution of the
     Intelligence Oversight Program in accordance with AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence
     Activities and AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities. The designated program lead will
     ensure all personnel are fully trained on Intelligence Oversight and provide assistance with
     other programs on Maxwell-Gunter as required.




                                             DAVID S. FADOK, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             Commander and President
AUI14-202 27 DECEMBER 2011                                                                 7


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
CJCSI1800.01D, Officer Professional Military Education Policy (OPMEP), 15 July 2009
AFPD 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and
Operations, 2 April 2004
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 16 April 2007
AFI 14-124, Predictive Battlespace Awareness, 25 November 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Roles, 10 March 2008
AFMAN 14-304, The Security, Use and Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented Information,
1 May 1999
AFI 36-2301, Developmental Education, 16 July 2010
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 June 2009
AUI 14-301, Security Review of Research Papers, Textbooks, and Related Documents,
29 August 2008
Air University Continuum of Education Strategic Guidance
USAF Institutional Competency List
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW—Air Base Wing
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AU—Air University
AY—Academic Year
CADRE—College of Aerospace Doctrine, Research and Education
IN—Intelligence Directorate
IRD—Intelligence Requirements Document
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
JWICS—Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communication System
MIP—Military Intelligence Program
 8                                                            AUI14-202 27 DECEMBER 2011


PEC—Program Element Code
PCE—Professional Continuing Education
PME—Professional Military Education
OB—Order of Battle
SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information
SCIF—Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SME—Subject Matter Expert
SSO—Special Security Office
SSR—Special Security Representative
TS—Top Secret
TSWA—Temporary Secure Working Area
VTC—Video/Tele Conference

Terms
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR)— An activity that synchronizes and
integrates the planning and operation of sensors, assets, and processing, exploitation, and
dissemination systems in direct support of current and future operations. This is an integrated
intelligence and operations function. (JP 1-02)
The Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System (JWICS)— The Top
Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information component of the Defense Information Services
Network that connects members of the Department of Defense Intelligence Information Systems
community and other members of the intelligence community. JWICS primary mission is to
support the production and dissemination of intelligence for indications and warning, current
intelligence, general military intelligence production, crisis management, operations planning
and coordination, counter-terrorism, and counter-narcotics operations.
Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO)— The SIO is the highest-ranking Air Force officer holding
the 14N3 or 14N4 Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) serving in an Air Force intelligence
position. The SIO's authority extends to all directly subordinate units. Installations with
intelligence activities in different chains of command will have separate SIOs. In this capacity,
the SIO provides senior guidance on all policy development, interpretations, and applications.
Further, the SIO serves as the chief advisor and mentor for AF intelligence officers, enlisted, and
civilians (as appropriate) in terms of career development and progress (AFI 14-202v3, Chapter
1.3.1).
Special Security Representative (SSR)— The designated representative of an organization,
under the direction of the supporting SSO, responsible for the day-to-day management and
implementation of SCI security and administrative instructions for a SCIF or TSWA.
Simulation— An imitation of the function or functions of a system. (AUI 36-2201)
AUI14-202 27 DECEMBER 2011                                                                    9


Wargame— A simulation, by whatever means, of a military operation involving two or more
opposing forces, using rules, data, and procedures designed to depict an actual or assumed real-
life situation. Examples: AU wargames such as Global Challenge and Granite Sentry. (Joint Pub
1-02)
