BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 25-201
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                            14 JANUARY 2008
                                                             Certified Current on 4 August 2011
                                                                                 Logistics Staff


                                         FEDERAL PRISON CAMP LABOR AND SUPPORT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSABILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.af.mil/e-publishing for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 42 MSG/CEOG                                  Certified by: 42 MSG/CE (Mr. Steven Smith)
MAFBI 25-201, 20 February 2002                                                      Pages: 8

This instruction implements AFPD 25-2, Support Agreements. It replaces MAFBI 25-201,
which was rescinded. This instruction establishes responsibilities for all organizations of Air
University, 42d Air Base Wing, associate units, and non-appropriated activities utilizing inmate
support from or providing services to the Federal Prison Camp (FPC), Maxwell AFB. It applies
to all personnel who have contact with inmates. Compliance with paragraphs 3.5 and 6 are
mandated by federal law. This regulation is punitive. Any violation of the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 or 6 of this regulation constitutes a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of
Military Justice (UCMJ), and may provide a basis for disciplinary action, including but not
limited to administrative and UCMJ action against military personnel, as well as
disciplinary or criminal action against civilians under the appropriate civilian personnel
regulations and federal and state law. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force. Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision: adds required punitive language to the Opening Paragraph and paragraphs 3.5 and
6; updates 42d Support Group to 42d Mission Support Group throughout; updates the FPC
Liaison office symbol to 42 MSG/CEOG (paragraph 3); prohibits inmate use of tobacco products
(paragraph 3.6.6); and adds additional contact numbers for the FPC Liaison (paragraph 10.6).
2                                                           AUI 25-201     14 JANUARY 2008

1. General. The use of minimum-security inmates on Maxwell-Gunter AFB provides an
augmentation labor force for grounds and other miscellaneous details. Inmates are not an
integral part of the work force and are not on equal footing with our DoD professionals.

2. Use of Inmate Labor on Maxwell-Gunter AFB. Inmate use requires careful consideration
to morale and welfare of assigned Air Force personnel and their dependents. Inmate labor is
used to complete work requirements that cannot be accomplished with available work force and
funding (over and beyond budget constraints). Inmate labor is not used to replace military or
civilian workers. Inmate labor is used primarily to perform grounds maintenance tasks such as
mowing grass, trimming hedges, cleaning ditches, removing litter, etc. Inmates may be used to
perform other tasks on a case-by-case basis when approved by the 42d Mission Support Group
Commander (42 MSG/CC) and Federal Prison Camp (FPC) Warden. All personnel will adhere
to all inmate regulations regarding the use of inmate labor and conduct. To ensure proper use of
inmate labor, an annual re-validation of permanent labor details is accomplished by the FPC
Base Liaison and forwarded to the FPC Base Lieutenant for review and approval.

3. Coordinating Inmate Labor. The 42 MSG’s FPC Liaison (42 MSG/CEOG) serves as the
coordinator for using the inmate labor force available to Maxwell-Gunter AFB and is the liaison
between the prison camp and the base. All support from the FPC is coordinated by the Liaison
to determine appropriateness. This coordination includes requests for inmate labor details,
special projects, weekend details, off base details, etc.

    3.1. Requests for Temporary Inmate Labor. Requests for day-to-day temporary labor
    support must be received by the FPC liaison a minimum of 3 duty days before the scheduled
    work. When extremely short notice requests for inmate labor and weekend details are
    required, all requests must be received in writing by the FPC Liaison and forwarded to the
    FPC for approval. Request for temporary inmate labor must include supervisor’s name,
    purpose of detail, number of inmates required, telephone and building number, and the
    number of days required.

    3.2. Requests for Permanent Inmate Labor. Requests for permanent inmate labor must be in
    writing and include the following:

       3.2.1. Description of tasks and duties to be performed.

       3.2.2. Justification.

       3.2.3. Number of inmates desired.

       3.2.4. Supervisor’s Name/Office Information

    3.3. Permanent Inmate Detail Supervisors. Inmate supervisors will be NCOs, officers, or
    equivalent civilians. The FPC Liaison must approve deviation from this policy. Permanent
    inmate detail supervisors must attend an Annual Refresher Federal Bureau of Prisons
    (FBOP) Supervisory Training Course. Initial Supervisory training is conducted the last
    Thursday of each month. Supervising inmates is not delegated to base personnel that have
    not attended an initial or refresher FPC Supervisory Training Course. Any change to inmate
AUI 25-201    14 JANUARY 2008                                                                   3

   detail supervision is provided to the FPC Liaison in writing within seven duty days.
   Supervisors are responsible for keeping the required safety training and evaluation records on
   each assigned inmate to his or her detail. Copies of the Work Performance Rating and Job
   Efficiency Training Report are completed and faxed (953-5151) to the FPC Liaison no later
   than the 5th calendar day of each month. All supervisors will conduct an accountability
   check no less than once an hour for both inside and outside details. This accountability
   check will ensure that all inmates assigned to their detail are present. Details working inside
   of buildings or in housing areas must be closely monitored at all times. It is imperative that
   supervisors have positive control of all inmates while working inside any facility. In order to
   improve supervisors’ span of control, an inmate to supervisor ratio of 5 to 1 is recommended.
   Supervisors that fail to comply with FPC and Maxwell AFB policies are subject to having
   their detail discontinued.

   3.4. Temporary Inmate Supervisors. Supervisors for temporary inmate details must receive
   a compressed inmate supervisor’s training/information review. The FPC Liaison provides
   this information. All temporary inmate supervisors complete and fax a copy of the Federal
   Prison Camp Labor #1 Supervisor’s Quick Reference/Training Information Sheet to the FPC
   Liaison. The temporary inmate detail does not report for duty until the FPC Liaison has
   received this document.

   3.5. Conduct With Inmates. Any violation of the provisions of this paragraph constitutes a
   violation of Article 92, UCMJ, and may provide a basis for disciplinary action, including but
   not limited to, administrative and UCMJ action against military personnel, as well as
   disciplinary or criminal action against civilians under the appropriate civilian personnel
   regulations and federal and state law. Military and civilian personnel must adhere to the
   following rules when supervising or interacting with inmates:

      3.5.1. Familiarity and fraternization are prohibited. Professional working relationships
      must be maintained at all times when dealing with inmates. The proper titles to address
      inmates are “Mr.” or “Inmate.”

      3.5.2. Do not discuss personal affairs or sensitive information with inmates.

      3.5.3. Inmates are not allowed to accept or give gratuities of any kind. Gratuities may be
      considered as a personal favor or service; for example, providing unauthorized meals or
      snacks at work, typing personal correspondence, unauthorized mail service, unauthorized
      computer or phone use, or unauthorized contact with the public, etc. Do not give
      anything to an inmate or accept anything from an inmate regardless of how trivial it may
      seem. To solicit or permit personal services of any nature by inmates is prohibited. Any
      violations of these rules are not only in violation of this directive, but federal law and
      punishable as such.

      3.5.4. Inmates’ mail is subject to inspection by FPC authorities. Any attempt by inmates
      to have anyone mail or receive letters is a FPC violation.

      3.5.5. Inmates working on-base details are not to receive privileges or compensation not
      available to all inmates at the FPC; for example, inmates are not provided money, meals
4                                                            AUI 25-201        14 JANUARY 2008

       or beverages, attend office parties, or similar organizational social functions. Effective
       1 July 2001, it is prohibited for inmates to have in their possession money of any kind.

    3.6. Transportation. Inmates are transported by bus from the camp directly to their work
    supervisor and returned to camp at the end of the workday. Do not use privately owned
    vehicles to transport inmates. When transporting inmates in government vehicles, exercise
    caution to ensure all inmates remain in fixed seats while the vehicle is in motion. All trucks
    carrying inmates must be covered and equipped with safety chains, tailgate, or equivalent,
    and fastened while the truck is in motion.

       3.6.1. Prior FPC approval and signing-out of inmates through the FPC Staging Area is
       not required for permanent details that routinely transport inmates in the course of their
       daily duties (between Maxwell and Gunter). Those permanent details that do not
       routinely (multiple times per week) transport inmates in the course of their daily duties
       between Maxwell and Gunter must have prior FPC approval. Inmates must be signed out
       and signed back in through the Staging Area.

       3.6.2. Travel between Maxwell and Gunter is direct. No stops or travel deviations are
       permitted.

       3.6.3. Written approval from the Warden must be obtained before taking an inmate to an
       off-base business establishment to assist with official Air Force business; for example,
       picking up office supplies, tables, chairs, etc.

       3.6.4. Inmate supervisors experiencing vehicle trouble or problems should immediately
       contact the FPC Control Center (293-2100).

       3.6.5. Inmates are not allowed to drive DOD or Air Force vehicles on or off base if not
       properly licensed and approved by the FPC.

       3.6.6. Inmates are prohibited from the use of any and all tobacco products.

    3.7. Work Details. Inmate work details are organized and closely supervised to maximize
    positive control of the inmate labor force. Inmate labor is not used in situations where an
    inmate would:

       3.7.1. Deal directly with the base population such as a receptionist.

       3.7.2. Set an example or be a role model.

       3.7.3. Have contact with dependents such as child development or youth centers.

       3.7.4. Have access to classified, unclassified, Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act,
       or operational critical (OPSEC) information.

       3.7.5. Have access to funds, U.S. Mail, or commercial (UPS, Federal Express, etc.)
       shipping and handling areas.
AUI 25-201     14 JANUARY 2008                                                                    5

       3.7.6. Replace volunteers in hospitals, clinics, or libraries.

       3.7.7. Have contact with base personnel in MWR facilities such as clubs.

       3.7.8. Perform details near or adjacent to the flightline or ramp area if the inmate has
       piloting skills or FAA Pilot Certification. The FPC identifies inmates with these skills or
       certification.

       3.7.9. Have access to telephones, beepers, or computers outside of the FPC.

   3.8. Meals. All meals for inmates are provided by the FPC. The following policy governs
   the feeding of inmates at Gunter Annex:

       3.8.1. All inmates are fed all meals at the Montgomery Federal Prison Camp at Maxwell
       Air Force Base.

       3.8.2. Inmates working at Gunter Annex will be rotated between the AM and PM shifts
       to accommodate the FPC feeding process.

       3.8.3. The AM inmate shift works from 0630 to 1030 and is returned to the FPC at 1045.

       3.8.4. The PM inmate shift works from 1200 to 1430 and is returned to the institution at
       1445 by Base Transportation Services.

       3.8.5. The inmates are prohibited from bringing any food items to the worksite from the
       FPC.

4. Inmate Custody and Discipline. The FPC is in charge of inmates’ custody and discipline at
all times. Maxwell-Gunter detail supervisors are in charge of work supervision. Matters of
conduct (misbehavior, suspicious behavior, suspected illegal activity, fraternization with the base
populace, etc.) are referred to the Special Investigative Supervisor (SIS) (293-2177 or 293-2100)
or the FPC Liaison (953-4066). It is imperative that base detail supervisors as well as other
military and civilian personnel working around inmates understand that questionable behavior
needs to be reported immediately. The immediate reporting of these activities is of the utmost
importance to the FPC to ensure that inmates are held accountable for misbehavior on base.

5. Clothing. Inmates must wear distinctive clothing at all times that can be readily identified
from the rest of the work force. Safety shoes and clothing other than for safety purposes is the
FPC’s responsibility. It is the responsibility of the detail supervisor to supply and ensure the use
of safety clothing and equipment required for the job. The installation commander, in
conjunction with the FPC Warden, may vary the uniform to meet any special requirements.
6                                                           AUI 25-201      14 JANUARY 2008

6. Weapons, Ammunitions, Intoxicants, Drugs, or Contraband. Any violation of the
provisions of this paragraph constitutes a violation of Article 92, UCMJ, and may provide a basis
for disciplinary action, including but not limited to, administrative and UCMJ action against
military personnel, as well as disciplinary or criminal action against civilians under the
appropriate civilian personnel regulations and federal and state law. Unless authorized by
Bureau of Prisons Regulation, it is a federal crime to introduce into or bring weapons,
ammunitions, intoxicants, drugs, or contraband upon the grounds of the FPC. All persons and
packages are subject to search. Any violations of these rules are not only in violation of this
directive, but federal law and punishable as such.

7. Safety: All newly-assigned inmates receive Initial Job Orientation and Safety Training
within the first 8 hours of being assigned in accordance with FPC Inmate Supervisor’s Reference
Guide (Attachment 7). The primary detail supervisor keeps the original of the Initial Job
Orientation and Safety Training document on file up until one year after the inmate has been
removed from the detail. The primary inmate detail supervisor also ensures that each inmate
receives a monthly job efficiency training briefing (Safety Talks) in accordance with the FPC
Supervisor’s Reference Guide (Attachment 9). A copy of the safety talks is faxed to the FPC
Liaison (953-5151) before close of business (COB) the 5th of each month. Keep the safety talk
on file up until one year after the inmate has been removed from the detail.

8. Medical Emergencies. Any injuries to an inmate must be dealt with promptly. If an inmate
is severely injured or if you have any doubt about the seriousness of the injury, dial 911 for an
ambulance. After you have taken this step, contact the Prison Camp at 293-2100 (FPC Control
Center). Finalize the process by contacting the FPC Liaison at 953-4066 or 207-8249. You are
required to fax an incident report to the FPC Liaison (953-5151) before COB the day of the
incident.

9. Minor Injuries. Call the FPC Control Center (293-2100). Explain the situation and follow
their instructions. Transport the inmate to the FPC Staging Area or call the Control Center (293-
2100) to request FPC transportation. Finalize the process by contacting the FPC Liaison at 953-
4066 or 207-8249. You are required to fax an incident report to the FPC Liaison (953-5151)
before COB the day of the incident.

10. Accidents. If an inmate is in an accident that involves any kind of equipment/property, the
following actions must be taken:

    10.1. Dial 911 if severe injuries have occurred.

    10.2. Do not move or tamper with property or equipment that were involved in or where the
    accident occurred. The equipment remains in place until released by the military police, FPC
    safety officer, and the 42 ABW Safety Officer/NCO.

    10.3. Contact the Base Security Forces (953-7222 or 953-2765).

    10.4. Notify the FPC Safety Officer at 293-2250. If no answer, contact Control Center at
    293-2100.
AUI 25-201    14 JANUARY 2008                                                          7

   10.5. Contact the 42 ABW Safety Officer at 953-2001.

   10.6. Call the FPC Liaison (953-4066 or Cell: 799-4797).

   10.7. Fax an incident report to the FPC Liaison (953-5151) before COB the day of the
   incident. A copy of an incident report can be found at Attachment 1 in your FPC Inmate
   Supervisor’s Reference Guide.

11. Adopted Form: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.



                                                 STEPHEN R. LORENZ
                                                 Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                 Commander, Air University
8                                                      AUI 25-201   14 JANUARY 2008

                                       Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)

AFPD 25-2, Support Agreements

Abbreviations and Acronyms

42 MSG/CC—42d Mission Support Group Commander

42 MSG/CEOG—42 MSG Federal Prison Camp Liaison

COB—Close of Business, usually Monday – Friday, 1630 hrs

FBOP—Federal Bureau of Prisons

FPC—Federal Prison Camp

OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility

UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
