BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2322
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                               22 OCTOBER 2003
                                                                   (Certified Current, 3 May 2013)

                                                                                          Personnel


                                     AIR UNIVERSITY INSTITUTIONAL EFFECTIVENESS
                                                     AND INSTITUTIONAL RESEARCH

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY:          There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/CFAI                                    Certified by: HQ AU/CFA (Dr. Dorothy Reed)
                                                                                    Pages: 10

This instruction establishes policies and procedures designed to integrate Air University (AU)
institutional effectiveness (IE) and institutional research (IR) processes. It complements
information contained in AUI 36-2312, Air University Evaluation Programs; AUI 36-105,
Faculty Development, Enrichment, and Responsibilities; AUI 36-2306, Air University
Curriculum and Program Review; AUI 36-2320, Curriculum Integration Groups; AUI 36-2307,
Air University Board of Visitors Actions; and programming and budgeting guidance as described
in this instruction. This instruction applies to all AU education and education support programs.

1. Definition of Key Terms:

   1.1. Institutional Effectiveness (IE). A comprehensive, broad-based, interrelated system of
   planning and evaluation in all major aspects of AU that demonstrates whether and to what
   degree the institution and its subordinate institutions are fulfilling their institutional purpose
   as defined by the mission, priorities, goals, and objectives.

   1.2. Institutional Research (IR). The planning, coordination, collection, organization,
   compilation, and dissemination of information concerning the characteristics and
   performance of the institution.

2. Purpose. IE efforts provide a multifaceted means to systematically consolidate, analyze, and
communicate information about AU programs, faculty, students, and support activities. Based
on this information, AU decision makers are able to improve operations, reduce uncertainties,
and increase program effectiveness in support of the mission and goals.

3. Scope. IE is part of an integrated system that includes Air Force-prescribed and AU
academic-based planning and evaluation processes. The primary Air Force-prescribed processes
include performance planning, mission area planning, programming, and budgeting processes.
2                                                                                   AUI 36-2322    22 OCTOBER 2003

All Air Force-prescribed processes are managed by the Plans and Programming Office (HQ
AU/XP), with the exception of budgeting, managed by the Financial Management Directorate
(HQ AU/FM). The academic-based processes are managed by the Academic Office (HQ
AU/CF). The primary academic-based functions supporting AU’s IE effort include program
assessments, school evaluation plans, and program review processes. AU’s IE system is
graphically depicted in Figure 1.

     3.1. AU’s IE processes are driven by its mission, priorities, goals, and objectives. The
     integration of the Air Force-prescribed and academic-based processes culminates in an
     overall AU IE system. Using the AU mission and planning documents, AU educational and
     educational support units then develop their own mission statements and planning
     documents. Educational and educational support unit mission statements and planning
     documents serve as the foundation for developing day-to-day operations and processes
     towards unit-level and AU goals and as the basis for program and IE assessments. All AU
     units, educational and educational support units, are required to complete program
     assessments as outlined in this instruction and to document the use of assessment results in
     program development. Program assessments are also used by AU and its units for input into
     the Air Force-prescribed planning documents and interface with the budgeting processes.

Figure 3.1. Air University Institutional Effectiveness System
                                          AF & AETC



    Non-DoD External                      AU Command &                           DoD External
       Agencies                            Governance                              Agencies
    (SACS COC, etc.)                     (AU/CC and BOV)                        (CBOA, J7, etc.)



                                           AU Mission




                                      AU Strategic Plan &
                                       Performance Plan

                        Resources                           Programs


                           Resource
                                                        Unit Mission, Goals &
                         Development
                                                             Objectives
                       (Including POM)



                       Budget and Other                 Program/Curriculum
                        Resource Plans                     Development




                          Execution of Educational Program & Support



                       Ongoing Evaluation of Education Program & Support
AUI 36-2322     22 OCTOBER 2003                                                                   3


4. Key Air University and U.S. Air Force Activities Related to Institutional Effectiveness.

   4.1. Planning Processes. The AU planning function involves providing input into the AETC
   planning process; developing AU’s strategic plan and ensuring appropriate linkage to
   AETC’s strategic plan; maintaining AU’s performance management program with linkage to
   AETC’s Performance Plan; providing input into the AETC Mission Area Plan; and tracking
   the status of and progress toward goals and objectives within each of the AU plans.

   4.2. Evaluation. Evaluation is an integral process within AU’s educational programs, both
   resident and non-resident, that takes into consideration internal and external factors.
   Evaluation is synonymous with assessment and includes analysis of data from student
   performance and analysis of data from the delivery of education programs and educational
   support programs. This involves planning and evaluation that is systematic, broad-based,
   interrelated, and appropriate for AU relative to the activities of teaching, research, and public
   service. AU’s evaluation policy is described in AUI 36-2312, Air University Evaluation
   Programs.

   4.3. Institutional Research (IR). Institutional research incorporates responsibility for
   collecting, consolidating, and analyzing data relevant to the institution and disseminating the
   results to appropriate decision makers. Specific activities of the institutional research
   function involve ongoing timely data collection, analysis, and dissemination of the data; use
   of external studies and reports; design and implementation of internal studies related to
   students, personnel, facilities, equipment, programs, services and fiscal resources;
   development of databases suitable for longitudinal studies and statistical analyses; and related
   activities in support of planning, evaluation, and management.
   4.4. Curriculum Integration. Curriculum integration involves the responsibility for managing
   and conducting AU program review boards (PRB) and recommending actions concerning
   education program curriculum plans. This function provides an AU-level focal point for all
   matters pertaining to Instructional System Development (ISD) and management of the
   curriculum integration groups (CIG). Although the program review board forum is primarily
   a means of curriculum assessment, it is also a mechanism to support AU’s institutional
   effectiveness assessment requirements. Policies relative to curriculum integration that
   support the IE program include AUI 36-2306, Air University Curriculum and Program
   Review, and AUI 36-2320, Curriculum Integration Groups.

   4.5. Boards. The institution’s governing board is the AU Board of Visitors (BOV); the
   advisory board, the AU Command Board of Advisors (CBOA), consists of general officer
   representatives from all Air Force major commands. The BOV and CBOA activities
   culminate in formal reports of Air University’s educational programs and provide a major
   source of IE assessment. Specific policies relative to these functions include AUI 36-2307,
   Air University Board of Visitors Actions, and charter and bylaws for the BOV and CBOA.

   4.6. Programming. Programming provides the link between the plan and the budget. The
   result of this linkage is that resources can be allocated in a systematic way with direct
   relationship to the roles and missions of the Department of Defense. In addition,
4                                                         AUI 36-2322     22 OCTOBER 2003

    programming allows DoD to balance fiscal and other constraints in the development of the
    President’s budget. Programming translates planning decisions into detailed time-phased
    allocations of resource requirements including forces, personnel, and funds. In short,
    programming identifies resources needed to execute plans.

       4.6.1. Program Objective Memorandum (POM). The key objective of programming is
       development of a balanced and defensible Air Force program in the POM. The POM
       presents the Services’ proposal to the Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) for a balanced
       allocation of all available service resources within specified constraints to satisfy the
       Defense Planning Guidance (DPG). In principle the POM integrates operational
       requirements with projected fiscal, manpower, and material resources. This is the process
       for correcting known deficiencies (disconnects) and starting new endeavors (initiatives)
       based on approved and validated requirements.

    4.7. Budgeting. Formulation, execution, and control of near-term resource requirements,
    allocation, and use is based on the results of the planning and programming efforts.
    Budgeting begins with the Investment Budget Review (IBR) and the Operational Budget
    Review (OBR) and continues with the Budget Estimate Submission (BES) and the
    President's Budget (PB).

5. Responsibilities.

    5.1. Integration of IE Processes. The successful approach to IE requires the integration of
    Air Force-prescribed and AU academic-based planning and evaluation processes.
    Responsibility for the integration of the two processes is shared by AU’s Academic Office
    (HQ AU/CF) and AU’s Plans and Programming Office (HQ AU/XP). HQ AU/XP also has
    primary responsibility for the AU strategic planning document. Budgeting is the
    responsibility of the Financial Management Directorate (HQ AU/FM).

    5.2. Programming Policy Responsibilities.

       5.2.1. The Program Objective Memorandum (POM) is a programming exercise occurring
       in even-numbered years and amended in odd years. The POM addresses an
       organization’s monetary needs not already included in its baseline. The POM includes
       the rationale for planned changes from the approved budget baseline and impact(s) on the
       organization, AU, and the Air Force if not approved and funded. At Air Education and
       Training Command (AETC), AU’s POM inputs compete against inputs from other AETC
       organizations for priority. Inputs flow through the AETC corporate structure resulting in
       a complete AETC POM submission. The consolidated AETC POM input is then
       submitted to HQ USAF. At HQ USAF, AETC POM inputs compete against POM inputs
       from other major commands (MAJCOMs) for priority. The newly combined POM inputs
       flow up through the Air Force corporate structure and result in the official Air Force
       POM submission. The POM proposes total program requirements beginning two years
       out and continuing for the next six years and includes rationale for planned changes from
       the approved Five-Year Defense Plan baseline within Office of the Secretary of Defense
       Guidance.
AUI 36-2322    22 OCTOBER 2003                                                              5

      5.2.2. DoD, Air Force, and AETC programming policy instructions include DoDI
      7045.7, Implementation of the Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System (PPBS),
      23 May 84; AFPD 16-5, 29 Jul 94, Planning, Programming & Budgeting System; AFI 33-
      103, Requirement Development and Processing, 18 Mar 99, AETCI 16-501, HQ AETC
      Corporate Structure, 7 Sep 01. Other policy sources are the Defense Planning Guidance,
      Annual Planning & Programming Guidance, and the Planning, Programming &
      Budgeting System (PPBS) & Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS) Primer (AF/XPPE),
      Jan 00.

   5.3. Budgeting Policy Responsibilities. Budgeting guidance is found in the 65-series
   (Financial Management) of Air Force instructions (AFI); however, these instructions do not
   address guidance on every specific topic you may have. Interpretation of Air Force and DoD
   policy, as well as public law, is necessary in many cases. Address questions to HQ AU/FM.

   5.4. HQ AU/XP. Responsible for the AU-level mission statement and planning processes.
      5.4.1. Facilitates the development, coordination, publication, dissemination, and
      maintenance of the following documents:

          5.4.1.1. Mission Statement. A clearly defined mission statement, appropriate to
          collegiate education as well as to the unique purpose of AU.

          5.4.1.2. Performance Plan. Based on AETC Performance Management Program as
          required by AFI 90-1102, Performance Management. Deliverables include the AU
          Performance Plan and quarterly AU Mission Performance Report (MPR).

          5.4.1.3. Strategic Plan. A strategic plan with goals, objectives, and measures to
          reflect accomplishment of each goal.

              5.4.1.3.1 Program Assessments. AU/XP monitors AU Strategic Plan goals and
              objectives through program assessments. Each unit is required to submit an
              annual program assessment that includes, at a minimum, the following
              information: (See attached sample format.)

                 5.4.1.3.1.1. Current AU Strategic Plan goal and/or objective

                 5.4.1.3.1.2. Unit-level mission statement

                 5.4.1.3.1.3. Unit-level goal and/or objective

                 5.4.1.3.1.4. Measure used to assess progress

                 5.4.1.3.1.5. Results obtained

                 5.4.1.3.1.6. Use of results

      5.4.4 Planning Oversight. Monitors AU planning activities relative to goal and objective
      status through a single reporting process to eliminate reporting redundancy.
6                                                          AUI 36-2322      22 OCTOBER 2003

          5.4.4.1. Reporting Cycles. Units and AU review planning processes and results
          annually. In some instances, reports may occur more frequently.

          5.4.4.2. Planning Process Linkage. Ensures goals and objectives are linked to AU’s
          programming and budgeting processes. (See paragraphs 5.2. and 5.3.)

    5.5. HQ AU/CFA.

       5.5.1. AU Conduit for IE Information. Provides data and information about the
       institution to the commander, chief academic officer, AU Command Board of Advisors,
       AU Board of Visitors (BOV), Air Education and Training Command, and the Air Staff.
       This information may be reported on a recurring basis or in response to a specific tasking.

       5.5.2. IE and IR Oversight. Provides oversight and advice on institutional effectiveness
       and institutional research policy, procedures, and techniques.

       5.5.3. IE and IR Document Repository. Maintains central repository of research studies,
       benchmark reports, comparison studies, and projects conducted by individuals outside
       HQ AU/CFA when such studies are applicable to the AU Strategic Plan goals, objectives,
       or measures.

    5.6. Educational Programs and Administrative and Educational Support Programs.
    Educational programs include all AU schools and colleges. Administrative and education
    support programs include those activities that support AU schools and colleges.

       5.6.1. Points of Contact Appointment. Each educational program and administrative or
       educational support activity must designate, by letter of appointment, primary and
       alternate points of contact (POC) to serve as IE and IR POCs. These individuals will
       work closely with the HQ AU Chief of Evaluation and HQ AU Chief of Institutional
       Research. POCs serve as liaisons between HQ AU and their respective programs. All
       requests for information and responses will go through the designated POC to ensure an
       appropriate individual is cognizant at all times of requests for information from HQ AU
       and is in agreement with what is released. POCs are responsible for informing all levels
       of their organization about IE concepts, taskings, and concerns. It is important for IE
       POCs to be kept apprised of and involved in curriculum development, student and faculty
       evaluation, strategic planning, and institutional research matters.
       5.6.2. Unit Mission Statements and Planning Documents. Each school or college and
       educational support unit is required to develop, publish, disseminate, and maintain unit-
       level mission statements and planning documents that reflect objectives and measures
       clearly linked to the AU planning documents. These planning documents are provided to
       AU/XP through program assessments submitted annually. (See the program assessment
       format at Attachment 2.)

       5.6.3. Program Assessments. Complete program assessments and forward to AU for
       review NLT than 60 days following the final course offering for the academic year.
       Program assessments consist of appropriate unit-level goals and/or objectives linked to
AUI 36-2322    22 OCTOBER 2003                                                                 7

      the current AU Strategic Plan goals and/or objectives; measures to be used; results
      obtained; and documented use of the results.

      5.6.4. “Closed-Loop” Documentation. In addition to documenting measures, findings,
      and use of results for goals and objectives, educational programs are required to ensure
      “closed-loop” documentation of the use of IR data in curriculum review and other IE
      processes. School and college-level operating instructions must include a requirement for
      the documentation of the use of IE data in curriculum review and institutional
      effectiveness processes.

      5.6.5. Revisions to Unit Documents. Units update publications, web pages, briefings,
      policy documents, or other documents to reflect mission statement changes during the
      revision cycle. Units disseminate mission statement revisions internally and externally as
      needed.

      5.6.6. Collection of Data. All educational programs, as well as administrative and
      educational support programs, engage in research activities which support information
      requirements relative to planning and evaluation processes. Methods of evaluation for
      these purposes include process/product checklists; milestone charts; opinion, attitudinal,
      or customer satisfaction surveys; student performance results; faculty assessments; and
      demographic comparisons. This research is dependent upon the programs’ goals and or
      objectives and the measures identified.
      5.6.7. IR Reports. All educational programs, as well as administrative and educational
      support programs, that conduct special studies; benchmark reports; comparison studies;
      demographic analyses of faculty, staff, or students; or projects related to curriculum,
      facilities, infrastructure, and technology readiness for the purpose of the program’s self-
      knowledge will develop an IR archive for such studies.


                                               DONALD A. LAMONTAGNE, Lt Gen, USAF
                                               Commander
8                                                       AUI 36-2322   22 OCTOBER 2003


                                        Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

Defense Planning Guidance

Annual Planning & Programming Guidance

Planning, Programming & Budgeting System (PPBS) & Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS)
Primer

DoDI 7045.7, Implementation of the Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System (PPBS)

AFPD 16-5, Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System

AFI 33-103, Requirements Development and Processing

AFI 90-1102, Performance Management

AETCI 16-501, HQ AETC Corporate Structure

AUI 36-105, Faculty Development, Enrichment and Responsibilities

AUI 36-2306, Air University Curriculum and Program Review

AUI 36-2307, Air University Board of Visitors Actions

AUI 36-2312, Air University Evaluation Programs

AUI 36-2320, Curriculum Integration Groups

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AETC – Air Education and Training Command

AFI – Air Force Instruction

AFPD – Air Force Policy Directive

AU – Air University

AU/CF – Air University Academic Office

AU/FM – Air University Financial Management Directorate

AU/XP – Air University Plans and Programs Office
AUI 36-2322      22 OCTOBER 2003         9


BES – Budget Estimate Submission

BOV – Board of Visitors

CBOA – Command Board of Advisors

CIG – Curriculum Integration Group

DoD – Department of Defense

DPG – Defense Planning Group

IBR – Investment Budget Review

IE – Institutional Effectiveness

IR – Institutional Research

ISD – Instructional System Development

MAJCOM – Major Command

OBR – Operational Budget Review

PB – President’s Budget

POC – Point of Contact

POM – Program Objective Memorandum

PRB – Program Review Board

SECDEF – Secretary of Defense
10                                                                      AUI 36-2322     22 OCTOBER 2003


                                                  Attachment 2

                               EXAMPLE PROGRAM ASSESSMENT

                     _________________________________         Program Assessment
                   (name of school/college/support function)

Program POC: (name, grade, office symbol, phone #) (name of the data inputter)

Program Objective OPR: (name, grade, office symbol, phone #)(OPR for this particular objective)

Date Submitted/Updated: (current date)                        Academic Year: 2002-2003

Report Level: (Select one of the two reporting levels: (1) AETC; (2) AU Headquarters)

Report Frequency: (Select one: quarterly, annually, biennially, etc.)

AETC Goal/MET/MST: (Select one of the following 3, where applicable)
   (1) AETC Goal 2/Mission Essential Task (MET) 2: Produce highly motivated, mission-ready airmen to
   sustain the Air Force’s combat capability.
   (2) AETC Goal 3/Mission Support Task (MST) 1: Provide the infrastructure that ensures safe, high-quality
   recruiting, education and training.
   (3) AETC Goal 4/Mission Support Task (MST) 2: Provide a quality living and working environment.

AU Priority: (Select one of the 5 AU Priorities from 2003 AU Strategic Plan)

AU Goal and/or Objective: (Select one of the Strategic Plan goals from 2003 AU Strategic Plan, where
applicable.)

Unit Mission Statement (indicate date revised):

Unit Goal and/or Objective:

Measure Used to Assess Progress: Select one of the AU Strategic Plan measures where applicable. If not
applicable, describe the unit measure to be used to track progress toward meeting the objective.

     If reporting to AETC, report the following: Performance Measure Title
     (Example: Percentage of SOC and CEPME PME Requirements Met) and
     Performance Measure Description (Describe the Measure/Calculation Formula/Data Sources/
     Frequency/Standard and Target/Rationale/Key Assumptions)

Results Obtained: Describe the results of the measures.

     If reporting to AETC, include the following: Improvement OPR, Current Status, Why Standard Was not Met,
     Primary Resource Shortfall, and Whether within AU control

Use of Results: Describe how results are used for program change.

     If reporting to AETC, include the following: Anticipated Corrective Actions to Achieve Performance
     Standard; Best Estimate for When Performance Standard will be Achieved, and Additional Comments.

Funding Solution: Select one: Monetary/Non-monetary
    If monetary, insert program summary here (or a link to the program summary)
