BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                      AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2301
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                                                                    10 DECEMBER 2009

                                                                                                                                       Personnel

                                            USE OF CONTRACT INSTRUCTORS AND GUEST SPEAKERS
                                                                  AT AIR UNIVERSITY SCHOOLS

                     COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:                        Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing Web site at
                                      www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY:                        There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/CFAC                                                            Certified by: HQ AU/CF (Dr. Bruce T. Murphy)
Supersedes AUI 36-2301, 29 August 2007                                                                        Pages: 14

This instruction implements AFPD 36-23, Military Education. It establishes responsibilities,
policies and procedures for Air University (AU) colleges/schools/Centers and the Air Force
Institute of Technology (AFIT) wishing to obtain the services of contract instructors and guest
speakers. Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afirms. It applies to all AU schools and
colleges and AFIT.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision adds a paragraph to the AFIT responsibilities section (3.3.4) that ―establishes local
protocol, public affairs, financial management, contracting, and other relevant procedures as
appropriate for a tenant organization at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.‖

1.   Terms Explained ................................................................................................................              2
2.   Policy ...................................................................................................................................    2
3.   Responsibilities ..................................................................................................................           4
4.   Security ...............................................................................................................................      8
5.   Maintaining a List of School Guest Speaker Points of Contact (POC) ........................                                                   8
6.   Use of Contract Instructors in Resident Programs ........................................................                                     8
7.   Use of Contract Instructors in Distance Learning Programs ........................................                                            9
8.   Letters of Invitation ...........................................................................................................             9
9.   Letters of Appreciation......................................................................................................                10
2                                                                                      AUI 36-2301              10 DECEMBER 2009


10. Travel ................................................................................................................................   10
11. Payment to Speakers........................................................................................................               11
12. Travel and Per Diem ........................................................................................................              12
13. Adopted Forms .................................................................................................................           12
Attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting Information.................................                                              13


1. Terms Explained.                    See Terms in Attachment 1 for definitions of terms used in the
publication.

2. Policy. The services of contract instructors or guest speakers in support of Air University
(AU) programs may be obtained when services cannot be supplied by assigned personnel.
However, their use is limited to those needed to fulfill mission requirements.

     2.1. AU colleges/schools/Centers invite active duty Air Force and sister service flag officers
     (Distinguished Visitor [DV] code 3-6) and service chiefs (DV code 2) as desired to speak to
     their students during each academic year at special events such as symposia, graduations, etc.

           2.1.1. AU colleges/schools/Centers are encouraged to schedule distinguished speakers
           for their students during normal class hours rather than evenings or weekends. If,
           however, it becomes necessary for an AU college/school to schedule presentations on
           evenings or weekends, any costs incurred, such as staff overtime, are the responsibility of
           the host school. If the host school does not have necessary funding to address overtime
           costs for staff support of the presentation, it may either seek funding through AU/FM or
           not schedule the presentation after normal class hours.

           2.1.2. Schools/Centers notify AU Protocol of a distinguished speaker using AETC Form
           88, AETC Distinguished Visitor Notification, as explained in AUI 36-2202, Protocol
           Requirements in Support of Air University.

     2.2. Non-DoD guest speakers at AU resident schools may be paid an honorarium for their
     services or paid as a contract instructor based on the requirement and use of speaker.

           2.2.1. For expense tracking purposes, guest speakers are identified to the Element of
           Expense Investment Code (EEIC) 5929F, and honoraria are identified to EEIC 5921V.
           Honoraria are paid based on the following approval levels:

                 2.2.1.1. School Commandant or Center Commander can approve $500 or less.

                 2.2.1.2. AU/CC can approve $2,000 or less.

                 2.2.1.3. HQ USAF/CVA can approve more than $2,000.

           2.2.2. Payments are ―per speaker‖ not ―per presentation.‖ For honoraria of more than
           $500, host officers must submit an AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, with
           justification for approval to AU/CC level, AETC/CC level, or HQ USAF/CVA, as
           necessary.
AUI 36-2301     10 DECEMBER 2009                                                                3

   2.3. Each host school determines its requirements and makes arrangements for invitations,
   necessary travel, and the payment of honoraria or contracts. There is no specific guidance
   published for contracts for adjunct faculty. However, there are specific Air Force budget
   guidelines that address the payment of honoraria in AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance
   and Procedures, Chapter 4, Section 4C. To summarize this regulation (refer to the AFI for
   more specific detail):

      2.3.1. Commanders should make sure that persons engaged to deliver speeches, lectures,
      and presentations don't receive excessive fees from appropriated funds. The following
      guidance addresses payments for honoraria and speaking fees:

      2.3.2. Use O&M funds to pay honoraria or fees according to established approval levels
      (see AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Table 4.2 in Section 4C).

      2.3.3. To determine the appropriate approval level for honorariums or speaking fees,
      only the actual amount of the honorarium or speaking fee, excluding per diem and travel
      expenses, will constitute the cost against which the threshold is to be applied.

   2.4. Letters of invitation to distinguished speakers (DV code 1, 2, or 3) or persons of
   equivalent stature, normally offer the courtesy of alternative presentation formats even if a
   topical lecture and question-and-answer period was established in an informal contact.

   2.5. The best qualified authorities in their respective fields should be invited to speak.

   2.6. AU organizations should plan speaker presentations to ensure authoritative and balanced
   views on controversial political, economic, and social issues, particularly those involving
   official policy.

   2.7. Non-DoD Speakers. Each AU college/school should maintain a speaker document file
   indicating the amount of payment and whether any special fees are required. Maintaining
   such records will enable the college/school to better estimate future budget requirements for
   speakers. Spending limits for guest speakers will differ from one college/school to another,
   and should be established by each college/school commandant.

   2.8. The originator of any correspondence containing the itinerary of speakers must
   designate the correspondence ―For Official Use Only.‖
4                                                         AUI 36-2301      10 DECEMBER 2009

3. Responsibilities. This section summarizes the responsibilities which are further described
throughout this instruction.

    3.1. AU Commander.

       3.1.1. Signs letters of invitation or appreciation to speakers who are members of
       Congress, the Secretary of Defense, Service Secretaries, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
       of Staff, Service Chiefs, Combatant Commanders.

       3.1.2. Signs all letters of invitation for the Joint Flag Officer Warfighting Course and the
       Joint/Combined Force Air Component Commander Course. Exceptions are worked on a
       case-by-case basis.

       3.1.3. Typically serves as the senior AU representative for DV code 1 and 2 speakers
       visiting Air University.

       3.1.4. Delegates authority to AU commandants and commanders to invite DV code 3
       through 6 speakers.

       3.1.5. Signs letters of appreciation to guest speakers who are invited to speak at AU by
       AU/CC.

       3.1.6. Approves honoraria for guest speakers of $2,000 or less.

       3.1.7. Approves any school request to classify a non-government guest speaker as a DV
       code 1 through 5.

       3.1.8. Approves 3- and 4-star, and civilian equivalent or higher, invitations to Air
       University.

    3.2. AU/FM.

       3.2.1. Certifies the availability of funds cited on the AF Form 9, Request for Purchase,
       and works with school resource advisors to process requests for payment, special fees,
       travel pay, and per diem, as appropriate, for guest speakers.

    3.3. Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT).

       3.3.1. The AFIT Commandant forwards copies of invitation and appreciation letters to
       AU/CC.

       3.3.2. The AFIT Commandant forwards to AU/CC an information copy of letters sent to
       speakers of flag officer grade or equivalent (DV codes 1, 2, or 3), both active duty,
       retired, and civilians of comparable position and grade.

       3.3.3. Coordinates letters of invitation to foreign nationals through AFIT/XRR in
       accordance with AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer
AUI 36-2301    10 DECEMBER 2009                                                               5

      Program.    No foreign national is invited as a speaker without prior approval from
      SAF/IA.

      3.3.4. Establishes local protocol, public affairs, financial management, contracting, and
      other relevant procedures as appropriate for a tenant organization at Wright-Patterson Air
      Force Base.

   3.4. AU Protocol.

      3.4.1. Coordinates speaking opportunities at other schools for DV code 1 through 4
      speakers on a case-by-case basis, as determined by Chief, AU Protocol.

      3.4.2. Coordinates, plans and supervises protocol requirements for DV code 1 through 4
      speakers on a case-by-case basis, as determined by Chief, AU Protocol.

   3.5. AU Public Affairs.

      3.5.1. Advises commander/commandant on accomplishing opportune strategic
      communication when invited speakers are made available for external media marketing.
      Recommends media invitations appropriate to the subject matter covered in the speech
      and in concurrence with the desires of the invited speaker. Provides logistics to include
      media advisory/release and media escort to press conferences or single interviews.

      3.5.2. Furnishes a biographical sketch and copies of relevant coverage of the speaker to
      the press. In most cases, the media is not permitted to attend the actual lecture or
      question-and-answer session.

      3.5.3. Determines the appropriateness of all media interview sessions for Air Force News
      Service or other Air Force internal information products, if an Air Force speaker agrees
      to a media opportunity.

   3.6. Host School/Center Commander or Commandant.

      3.6.1. Obtains AU/CC approval for 3- and 4-star, and civilian equivalent or higher,
      speaker invitations.

      3.6.2. Appoints host officers from the school’s available faculty or staff for DV code 3
      through 6 speakers speaking at their school.

      3.6.3. Approves honoraria for guest speakers of $500 or less.

      3.6.4. May authorize course directors to sign letters of invitation to speakers with the
      grade of colonel or below. EXCEPTION: The Eaker College for Professional
      Development (ECPD) Commander may authorize school commandants within ECPD to
      sign letters of appreciation to speakers with grade of major general or lower.
6                                                        AUI 36-2301     10 DECEMBER 2009

       3.6.5. May approve excess taxi fares or use of privately owned conveyance when
       deemed most advantageous to the government (Joint Travel Regulations [JTR], Volume
       2, Chapter 2, Part C & D).

    3.7. Host Officer. If the host officer’s school has its own protocol office, the host officer
    should check with that office to determine who will perform which of the following
    responsibilities.

       3.7.1. Assumes responsibilities described in AUI 36-2202.

       3.7.2. Contact either the AU Protocol or school protocol office for information on items
       host officers should address before, during, and after a DV visit.

       3.7.3. Ensures all the details of the visit are arranged including transportation, lodging
       and itinerary while on AU.

       3.7.4. Continues to serve as host even if the distinguished speaker subsequently agrees to
       speak to other schools during the same visit, and coordinates with the speaker for
       additional speaking opportunities for DV code 4-6 speakers.

       3.7.5. Coordinates with the Squadron Officer College (SOC) if use of Polifka
       Auditorium is required for a joint session.

       3.7.6. Makes initial contact with the speaker by letter or other communication to
       establish the date of lecture and mode of travel and informs the speaker of the amount of
       anticipated payment, if any, and the authorized per diem allowance, if applicable.

       3.7.7. Coordinates initial arrangements for speakers from the United States Army, Navy,
       Marine Corps, Air National Guard, Air Force Reserve, Central Intelligence Agency,
       Defense Intelligence Agency, State Department, Royal Air Force, and German Air Force
       with the appropriate AU advisory staff members who are located at the AWC.

       3.7.8. Contacts the Director of Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL) by telephone before
       dispatching invitations to members of Congress, Congressional staffers, or employees
       and routes all such invitations via AF Form 1768 through his/her school’s command
       section to AU/CC for signature, including a file copy of the letter for the AU command
       section and protocol.

       3.7.9. Coordinates letters of invitation to foreign nationals through AU/IA (ECPD
       International Officer School). No foreign national is invited as a speaker without prior
       approval from SAF/IA.

       3.7.10. Ensures the AU Special Security Office (SSO) is notified of an sensitive
       compartmented information (SCI)-level lecture a minimum of 2 weeks in advance in
       order to properly ensure the security of the auditorium.
AUI 36-2301    10 DECEMBER 2009                                                                  7

      3.7.11. Informs the guest speaker of the amount of anticipated payment, if any, and the
      authorized per diem allowance, if applicable. Works with the school’s/college’s resource
      advisor to determine payment (when applicable).

      3.7.12. Provides AU Public Affairs (AU/PA) with specific information as to the
      requirement for a media opportunity if the nature of the DV visit or the background of the
      individual is so unique that a local interview is either appropriate or key to the success of
      the visit.

         3.7.12.1. In these cases, the following media opportunity statement is normally
         included in the letter of invitation:

              ―Air University receives frequent requests from local and regional media
              for short interviews of guest speakers. If you are agreeable to a 15-20
              minute media opportunity, please indicate this to your host officer. We
              will advise you in advance if a media opportunity has been arranged.‖

      3.7.13. Makes arrangements with the parent organization to issue a temporary duty
      (TDY) travel orders if the speaker is a military member, DoD civilian, or federal
      employee of another US Government agency. AU funds may be cited in the request for
      orders if AU/FMA certifies funds are available.

      3.7.14. Requests Invitational Travel Orders (ITO) in accordance with AFI 33-328,
      Administrative Orders (Chapters 1 and 2, and JTR, Volume 2, Chapter 6, paragraph
      C6000) if the speaker is a retired military member or a non-federal employee. Travel
      orders authorize use of space-available military air transportation.

      3.7.15. Normally submits requests to the Chief of Executive Services (AU/ES), through
      AU/IA (Spaatz Center), for military air travel of foreign nationals, with additional routing
      to appropriate offices of approval in accordance with the provisions of DoD 5105.38-M,
      Security Assistance Management Manual.

   3.8. Maxwell Base Contracts Office, Acquisition Flight B (42 CONS/LGCB).

      3.8.1. Reviews the completed AF Form 9 from AU/FM, and prepares DD Form 1155,
      Order for Supplies or Services, in the amount of the payment.

      3.8.2. Forwards the original and one copy of DD Form 1155 to Defense Finance and
      Accounting Service, Limestone Operating Location (DFAS Limestone), two copies to the
      requesting organization, and retains one copy.

      3.8.3. Processes the DD Form 1155 on a priority basis (normally 1 day).

      3.8.4. Processes amendments to DD Form 1155 to reflect substitute speakers or
      cancellation of speakers, based on memoranda initiated by the host school.
8                                                        AUI 36-2301      10 DECEMBER 2009

4. Security. AU schools/Centers do not grant a speaker access to classified information without
verification of the necessary security clearance and a need to know. Each commandant or
commander ensures US speakers are informed that they are responsible for content classification
level and for obtaining approval for any disclosure of classified information from their
command, agency, or department disclosure authority. For those lectures held at the sensitive
compartmented information (SCI) level, speakers must ensure their clearances are passed to the
AU Special Security Office (SSO) and notify both the school/Center and the SSO of the
classification level of their lectures.       Additionally, the school’s/Center’s designated
representative for guest speakers who are to give SCI lectures must inform the speakers that
material to be sent through the Defense Courier Service (DEFCOS) must be sent early enough
for receipt before the scheduled lecture and that all SCI material must be stored in the AU/IN
facility located in the Air Force Wargaming Institute before and after speaking engagements.
Speakers serving as SCI couriers must coordinate with the host school and the SSO to allow
enough time for repackaging of materials before departure.

5. Maintaining a List of School/Center Guest Speaker Points of Contact (POC). All AU
college/school/Center commandants or commanders designate a permanent point of contact
within their schools/Centers (may be a collateral duty) to serve as the organization’s focal point
to handle inquiries regarding guest speakers from AU Headquarters or from other AU
colleges/schools/Centers. Schools notify AU Public Affairs (AU/PA) in writing of their guest
speaker POC and upon change of POC. When a school needs to know the guest speaker points
of contact for other AU schools, they should contact AU/PA.

6. Use of Contract Instructors in Resident Programs.

    6.1. When contract instructors are required to augment resident program instruction, a
    formal contract may be developed. However, coordination with Civilian Personnel and
    Manpower must be obtained before submitting an AF Form 9 to 42 CONS. Notify 42 CONS
    as soon as the requirement is known to ensure compliance with contracting rules, regulations,
    and policies. When the purchase request is input into the system, 42 CONS and the customer
    should work on the details of the statement of work (SOW). Questions concerning SOWs
    should be directed to 42 CONS/LGCB.

    6.2. The school’s/Center’s designated representative must develop an independent
    Government estimate (IGE) to reflect what the requirement ―should cost.‖ 42 CONS/LGCB
    can assist in estimating costs. The IGE may be derived by reviewing previous contracts
    and/or market research. Paragraphs 2.2.1 and 2.2.2 address honorarium payment levels to
    speakers.

    6.3. If a school/Center wishes to contract for someone to teach in a resident or distance
    learning course at AU, the school should expect the contracting process to take, as a
    minimum, 60 days for contracts under $100K. For contracts that exceed $100K expect the
    process to take between 145 and 165 days depending on the type of acquisition (single year,
    options years, competitive, sole source, etc.). Specific questions concerning the contracting
    process should be directed to 42 CONS/LGCB.
AUI 36-2301     10 DECEMBER 2009                                                               9


7. Use of Contract Instructors in Distance Learning Programs.

   7.1. If a school/Center wishes to contract the services of an individual or company to assist
   in the facilitation of its distance learning instructional program, the school/Center should
   work closely with the 42 CONS to develop a Performance Work Statement (PWS) which
   describes the work in terms of the required results rather than ―how‖ the work is to be
   accomplished or the number of hours to be provided. The PWS shall contain, as a minimum,
   the following information:

       7.1.1. Description of Services that provides a narration of the specific requirements in
       terms of end results/outcomes required.

       7.1.2. Academic Requirements for the job (degrees, level of education) and subject
       matter expertise required (as appropriate).

       7.1.3. General Information such as location of work, course name, dates for training
       required, number of course offerings to be taught, invoicing procedures, any government
       training provided, government rights in product ownership, and security requirements.

       7.1.4. Service Summary that reflects the performance objectives (services needed,
       defined in terms or output/outcome desired) and associated performance thresholds
       (performance level required) which are associated with the description of services.

       7.1.5. Include any attachments associated with the Description of Services as appendices
       (i.e., publications, forms, etc).

   7.2. Current AU resident faculty normally would not be authorized to seek employment as a
   contract instructor for an AU school. The guidance governing the authority of an active duty
   military member or any federal civilian employee to accept payment as a contract instructor
   is very case-specific. Legal counsel (AU/JA) should be consulted prior to the employment of
   any federal employee (active duty or civilian employee) as a contract instructor. A current
   federal employee should be encouraged to seek advice from his or her designated ethics
   counselor prior to beginning employment as a contract instructor.

   7.3. Schools/Centers are responsible for developing guidance for coaches and mentors of
   contract instructors that include mentorship responsibilities, school requirements, faculty
   expectations and other pertinent policies and procedures. Serving as a coach or mentor is
   typically an additional duty assigned to school faculty or staff as deemed necessary by the
   school commander/commandant.

   7.4. Schools/Centers are responsible for providing contract instructors any training necessary
   to succeed in their roles as instructors/facilitators in distance learning programs.

8. Letters of Invitation. If, following an informal contact, a prospective speaker agrees to one
or more appearances at AU, the host officer prepares and sends a letter of invitation to the
speaker. EXCEPTION: Letter of invitation is not necessary when speaker is an AU-assigned
faculty member. Paragraphs 8.1 through 8.5 below apply to all AU schools, except AFIT.
Paragraph 8.6 applies to AFIT only.
10                                                          AUI 36-2301      10 DECEMBER 2009

     8.1. Letters for AU/CC signature are routed by AF Form 1768 and include a file copy of the
     letter for the AU command section and protocol.

     8.2. A copy of all letters of invitation to 3- and 4-star flag officers and civilian equivalents
     not signed by AU/CC must be provided to AU Command Section and AU Protocol.

     8.3. The host school ensures coordination of the invitation letter with other AU
     schools//Centers (through their command sections) that plan to use the speaker during the
     same visit.

     8.4. If a speaking or briefing team is invited, the letter of invitation should be addressed to
     the senior member of the team or that senior member’s office of assignment.

     8.5. AU-assigned speakers can be contacted by telephone or in person.

     8.6. The AFIT Commandant establishes appropriate guidelines controlling the signature
     element on letters of invitation for AFIT speakers.

9. Letters of Appreciation. Paragraphs 9.1 through 9.5 below apply to all AU schools/Centers,
except AFIT. Paragraph 9.6 applies to AFIT only. A letter of appreciation to all speakers is
prepared by the host officer or other designee from the host school and is signed by the school
commander/commandant as soon as practical following the presentation. For joint sessions, the
host school also prepares and signs the letter of appreciation. EXCEPTIONS:

     9.1. If AU/CC issued the invitation, AU/CCE or the AU CAG typically prepares the letter of
     appreciation. AU/CC signs the letter of appreciation as soon as practical.

     9.2. If the host school desires AU/CC to sign the letter of appreciation, the school should
     forward it through AU/CV by AF Form 1768.

     9.3. Course directors may sign letters of appreciation to speakers in the grade of colonel or
     lower who have been invited by the course director (if authorized by commandant or
     commander).

     9.4. Letters of appreciation from the LeMay Center may be compiled as a package and sent
     out upon completion of its respective courses.

     9.5. Because of the high frequency of course offerings throughout the year, ECPD, SOC and
     the Air Force Senior NCO Academy may send letters of appreciation for recurring visitors on
     an annual basis.

     9.6. The AFIT Commandant establishes appropriate guidelines controlling the signature
     element on letters of appreciation for AFIT speakers.

10. Travel. After preliminary arrangements are made for flag officers or civilian equivalents
(DoD and non-DoD), the flag officer’s staff handles their travel plans and communicates and
coordinates these arrangements with the host school. In some cases, host schools/Centers make
these arrangements for non-DoD personnel depending on the circumstances. The type of travel
AUI 36-2301     10 DECEMBER 2009                                                               11

order used depends upon the status of the speaker. NOTE: Requests for spouse travel must be
submitted to HQ USAF/CVA for approval not later than 10 duty days before scheduled to
commence. As a general rule, dependents may not accompany DoD personnel on official
business at government expense. First-class airline accommodations are not authorized without
the approval of the Secretary of Defense (JTR, Volume 2, Chapter 2, Part E, paragraph 2204).

11. Payment to Speakers. Resource advisors at each school should work with AU/FM to
process requests for payment, special fees, travel pay, and per diem.

   11.1. The resource advisor may make payment using a Government Purchase Card check, if
   under $3,000. Payment for speaking is not paid to active duty military personnel or to
   civilian employees receiving compensation for duties with the federal government.

   11.2. Contract Instructors and Guest Speakers are identified differently and receive payment
   through different sources:

       11.2.1. A contract instructor is identified to the Element of Expense Investment Code
       (EEIC) 5926D. Although funding limits are not specified, payments should be
       reasonable and objectively determined based on criteria such as experience, reputation,
       contribution to the curriculum and so on. There are dollar limitations on the amounts
       expended for sole source contracts. Selection of a specific contract instructor (sole
       source selection) may impact AU’s sole source dollar limitations. 42 CONS/LGCB can
       provide additional information on sole source dollar limitations.

   11.3. The process for issuing payments takes approximately 30-45 days. If the speaker does
   not accept a Government Purchase Card (GPC) payment or GPC check, the speaker will
   invoice per the instructions on the DD Form1155 (the contract), then DFAS will make the
   payment. Once the school commander/commandant has approved the honorarium, the
   school’s Resource Advisor will complete the AF Form 9 and route it through AU/FMA as
   described in paragraph 11.6. The approval of the school commander/commandant should be
   submitted with the AF Form 9. The Maxwell Base Contracts Office (42 CONS) receives the
   AF Form 9 and prepares DD Form 1155 for payment.

   11.4. Multiple lectures may be included on a single AF Form 9.

   11.5. AFIT submits AF Form 9 to its budget office and then to its contracting support office
   at Maxwell AFB.

   11.6. The host officer or the school’s resource advisor submits the AF Form 9 to AU/FMA
   for coordination. AU/FMA forwards the AF Form 9 to 42 CONS/LGCP for processing a
   minimum of 2 weeks before the lecture is required. Schools may hand-carry priority
   requests, supported with an emergency walk through letter (signed by the school
   commander/commandant), through AU/FMA to 42 CONS/LGCP for coordination. 42
   CONS/LGCP then forwards to AU/FMA for certification of funds which, in turn, sends the
   request back to LGCP for contract preparation. NOTE: The host officer ensures the speaker
   provides a social security number or a tax identification number if the funds are to be paid in
   the name of a corporation or company, as well as a mailing address.
12                                                       AUI 36-2301     10 DECEMBER 2009

     11.7. Defense Finance and Accounting Service – Limestone Operating Location records
     signed DD Form 1155 as an obligation of funds.

12. Travel and Per Diem.

     12.1. Invitational orders must complete a DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher or Subvoucher,
     to be processed according to standard procedures (same as military procedures).

     12.2. Travel claims must indicate use or non-use of government quarters and meals,
     including those furnished by nonappropriated fund activities and AU Protocol expenditures
     from the contingency funds or special morale and welfare fund.

     12.3. To ensure proper management of travel funds, host officers advise speakers to forward
     their travel vouchers to the AU/FMF within 5 workdays after completion of travel. If the
     speaker does not wish reimbursement, a completed travel voucher stating ―No
     Reimbursement Requested‖ must be forwarded to AU/FMF by the traveler.

13. Adopted Forms: DD Form 1155, Order for Supplies or Services; DD Form 1351-2, Travel
Voucher or Subvoucher; AF Form 9, Request for Purchase; AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet; AETC Form 88, AETC
Distinguished Visitor Notification.



                                                    ALLEN G. PECK
                                                    Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                    Air University Commander
AUI 36-2301     10 DECEMBER 2009                                           13



                                       Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

Joint Travel Regulations (JTR)

DoD 5105.38-M, Security Assistance Management Manual

AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program

AFI 33-328, Administrative Orders

AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures

AUI 36-2202, Protocol Requirements in Support of Air University

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ACSC—Air Command and Staff College

AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology

AU—Air University

AWC—Air War College

DV—Distinguished Visitor

ECPD—Eaker College for Professional Development

EEIC—Element of Expense Investment Code

GPC—Government Purchase Card

IGE—Independent Government Estimate

PAJE—Process for Accreditation of Joint Education

PWS—Performance Work Statement

SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information

SOC—Squadron Officer College

SOW—Statement of Work

SSO—Special Security Officer
14                                                          AUI 36-2301      10 DECEMBER 2009


Terms

Contract Instructor (also called Adjunct Faculty)—Individuals hired to instruct a particular
seminar, block, class, or group because of their professional expertise or association with a
specific functional area that is not available among assigned AU faculty. The topics for the
presentation, methods and format are selected by the school to accomplish specific educational
goals. Contract instructors may also be employed as facilitators in AU distance learning courses.
NOTE: For AU colleges/schools/Centers that fall under the Process for Accreditation of Joint
Education (PAJE), the Joint Staff (J-7) has indicated that for the PAJE purposes, the term
adjunct faculty refers to individuals who teach at or for a school, but are not officially assigned to
that school. The definition used in this instruction corresponds to the PAJE definition.

Distinguished Speaker—A government employee, DV code 6 through 1, or non-government
civilian who, by virtue of professional stature or fame, contributes to the education of AU
students or faculty through a presentation. The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Air
Force, and other eminently qualified dignitaries would be included in this category. Non-
government civilians may not be designated as DV code 1 through 5 without the approval of
AU/CC. (Speakers invited to the National Security Forum and special speakers or panel
members at AU-sponsored symposia will, in most cases, be included in the DV code 6 category.)

Distinguished Visitor Codes—An expanded listing of DV codes, for reference purposes, can be
found in AUI 36-2202, Protocol Requirements in Support of Air University. Refer to that listing
to identify your DV’s code level.

Functional Area Instructor—An individual who makes a presentation at an AU school because
of his/her professional expertise or association with a specific functional area that is not available
in assigned faculty or student resources. The topic for the presentation, methods, and format are
selected by the school to accomplish specific educational goals.

Guest Speaker—An individual, regardless of rank, invited to speak because of his/her fame for
a one-time event such as school graduation ceremony, forum, Commandant’s Lecture Series, or
any other venue in which a topic related to that individual speaker is discussed.

Host Officer—An individual assigned to arrange the details of a DV speaker’s visit including
transportation, lodging and itinerary while on AU.

Host Organization (or Host School)—The organization (or college/school/Center) that invites a
guest speaker to speak. If the speaker will give presentations at several AU organizations during
the same visit, the host organization is the one that originally invited the speaker.

Speaker—For the purpose of this instruction, the word speaker is used as a general term to
describe all instructors and various categories of speakers who give presentations at AU
colleges/schools/Centers or other AU organizations.
