BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2606
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                             22 OCTOBER 2013
                                                                                       Personnel
                                    AIR UNIVERSITY ACADEMIC CORPORATE PROCESS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web page at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/CFAE                           Certified by: HQ AU/CF (Dr. Bruce T. Murphy)
Supersedes AUI 36-2306, 24 September 2007                                      Pages: 8

This instruction implements policies and procedures contained in AFI 36-2301, Developmental
Education, AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development; AFH 36-2235, Volume 10,
Information for Designers of Instructional Systems Application to Education; AFMAN 36-2236,
Guidebook for Air Force Instructors; AUI 36-2312, Air University Assessment Programs, and
AUI 36-2617, Degree Granting, Accreditation, Reaffirmation, and Substantive Change. This
policy describes an academic corporate process consistent with AETCI 16-501, Corporate
Structure, and differentiates between the requirement to conduct academic program reviews at
the Center and at the Headquarters AU levels. This instruction applies to all AU Centers,
institutes, and schools (hereafter referred to as Center). Where certain authorities are delegated
to the Centers, ultimate responsibility for programs remains with the AU Commander and
President. Submit suggested changes or corrections to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, to the OPR through the appropriate chain of
command. Affected organizations may develop local publications to implement/supplement
guidance contained in this instruction. Submit draft local publications to HQ AU/CFAE for
coordination prior to approval. Provide a copy of approved local publications to HQ AU/CFAE.
Waivers to guidance in this publication are not authorized.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is a new instruction. It replaces AUI 36-2306, Education Program Review Boards. It
establishes the Air University Academic Corporate Process and subsequent to that, the AU
Academic Council as the oversight body to inform the AU Commander and President about
academic programs and their effectiveness, and university-wide accountability.

1. Purpose.

   1.1. This instruction establishes the Air University Academic Corporate Process to address
   items affecting the education enterprise. Examples include but are not limited to
   organizational structure, instructional delivery methods and platforms, curriculum
   integration, curriculum injects and other issues involving external stakeholders, academic
2                                                            AUI36-2606 22 OCTOBER 2013

    support processes, enterprise IT solutions, and prioritization of resources that support
    strategic decisions.

    1.2. AU employs a corporate process having a hierarchical structure composed of: chartered
    working groups able to study specific issues in depth; a regularly constituted and scheduled
    Academic Board to deliberate issues affecting the institution; and an Academic Council that
    receives information and recommendations from the Academic Board for final disposition.
    The AU/CC may commission special reviews. Use of this process ensures university-wide
    academic effectiveness and accountability. The AU academic corporate process is designed
    to advance the AU mission through standardization of university-wide academic processes
    where appropriate, to benchmark best educational practices, to monitor compliance with
    applicable AU, USAF, DOD, and joint guidance, and to monitor compliance with joint,
    regional, professional accreditation guidelines.

2. Roles and Responsibilities

    2.1. Air University Commander and President (AU/CC)

       2.1.1. The AU/CC is responsible for executing all AU academic programs and courses to
       meet Air Force educational development requirements.

    2.2. Academic Affairs (AU/CF)

       2.2.1. The Vice President for Academic Affairs (VPAA) is the senior leader responsible
       for academic affairs (AU/CF). The VPAA is the AU/CC’s chief advisor for educational
       matters. The VPAA serves as the principal authority on instructional methods for the
       university, is the architect of the AU continuum of education strategic guidance and
       advises the AU/CC on review and selection of key faculty members. The VPAA is the
       AU liaison to Air Staff and other external agencies for curriculum content matters but
       may delegate staff work as appropriate.

       2.2.2. Academic Affairs Directorate (AU/CFA).           The Associate Vice President
       Academic Affairs (AVPAA) ensures AU programs meet requirements of external
       stakeholders and oversight bodies and is the Air University liaison to the Southern
       Association of Colleges and Schools. The AVPAA serves as an advisory member on all
       Center or school academic review boards or meetings. The AVPAA ensures regular
       meetings of the AU Academic Board and Council are convened; AU level working
       groups are chartered; POCs report the status of progress at Academic Board meetings;
       and appropriate topics are elevated to the Council. The AVPAA also engages as a liaison
       for university issues with the AF/A1D, J7, and other bodies as appropriate.

       2.2.3. AU Academic Affairs (AU/CFA) is the action officer for Board and Council
       meetings and is the office of record for official minutes of Academic Board and Council
       meetings. This office distributes the agenda and read-aheads within 2 working days of
       the Academic Board meeting. Minutes will be published and distributed within 10
       working days of each meeting.

    2.3. Academic Board and Academic Council Members
AUI36-2606       22 OCTOBER 2013                                                                 3

      2.3.1. Attend all meetings and actively participate. Come prepared by reviewing read-
      aheads and ascertaining the status/position of your schools and Centers on topics under
      discussion. Provide appropriate representation to AU working groups. If the assigned
      member cannot attend, send a substitute who can speak authoritatively and
      knowledgeably for the school or Center on the agenda topics.

3. Process

   3.1. Working groups (WG). Working groups may be established at the university or Center
   level by the appropriate senior leader to accomplish the AU educational mission. Working
   group membership should include personnel with the expertise and diverse perspectives
   necessary to provide comprehensive and broad-based support to the issue under study.
   Faculty members will be included in working groups that affect curriculum content,
   instruction and/or program delivery. Schools or units directly affected by the decisions of the
   group should make every effort to have a key representative at every meeting.

      3.1.1. University-level working groups address issues that cut across the university or
      involve more than one Center. The OPR for university-level working groups resides at
      the university level, led by HQ AU/CFA or the appropriate HQ/AU A-staff directorate.
      These groups should include representatives from across the university to leverage
      corporate knowledge, to ensure all affected schools have a voice at the table; and to share
      information and best practices. Examples of working group focus areas include, but are
      not limited to, institutional effectiveness, curriculum management, educational support
      and technology, and faculty development.

             3.1.1.1. Long-term university-level WGs should have a formal charter approved by
             the establishing authority which designates the chairperson and describes the purpose,
             meeting frequency, membership, and anticipated outcomes of the group to include
             how any recommendations will be addressed (i.e., corporate board, etc). The WG
             chairperson will publish minutes to its members. The WG will provide slides or other
             materials to AU/CFAE as read-aheads for their presentation within 3 duty days of
             each Academic Board meeting.

                3.1.1.1.1. The Education Support Working group (ESWG), chaired by the
                Director (or designee) of AU/A3/6, is a standing university-level WG, chartered
                to provide ET/IT-based recommendations for university-wide technology support
                requirements. Membership is comprised of representatives from AU/CFA,
                AU/CFR, HQ/AU A-staff, School of Advance Air and Space Studies (SAASS),
                Air Force Research Institute (AFRI) and all academic Centers. The ESWG
                reports the status of activities at each Academic Board meeting and to the
                Academic Council as needed.

             3.1.1.2. Ad hoc or short-term WGs may simply meet and report on progress at each
             Academic Board meeting. They will provide agendas and read-aheads within 3 duty
             days prior to the Academic Board if needed for their presentation. Their progress will
             be captured in the minutes.
4                                                            AUI36-2606 22 OCTOBER 2013

       3.1.2. Center-level working groups operate under the authority of the establishing Center
       Commander with the OPR determined by the Center. Processes shall be determined by
       the Center Commander.

    3.2. AU Academic Board (hereinafter referred to as Board), provides a senior educator
    review of the appropriateness and impact of proposed new topics to the AU curriculum,
    selection of enterprise educational technology applications, emerging requirements, resource
    allocation, organizational structure, and other issues related to academic programs. Topics
    brought before the Board should require corporate consideration and resolution, as well as
    those that provide awareness of issues that may affect the AU education mission. The Board
    operates in an advisory capacity to the Council and is chaired by the AVPAA. The Board
    works in concert to develop the agenda for the Academic Council.

       3.2.1. Board membership consists of the AVPAA, the Deans of Air War College
       (AWC), Air Command and Staff College (ACSC), ACSC Distance Learning (as AU’s
       distance education expert), Squadron Officer College (SOC), SAASS, Air Force Institute
       of Technology (AFIT), Barnes Enlisted Professional Military Education Program Cadre,
       and Community College of the Air Force (CCAF); the senior educational advisor of each
       Center; the AFRI Deputy Director; and two members of the AU Faculty Senate. One
       civilian and one military member will represent the AU Faculty Senate, one being the
       President/President-Elect.

       3.2.2. Non-voting advisors to the Board include HQ/AU A-Staff Deputy Directors,
       AU/CFAE, AU/CFAC, Quality Enhancement Plan (QEP) Director, Muir S. Fairchild
       Research Information Center (MSFRIC) Deputy Director, AU Deputy Registrar, and the
       AETC/CLO liaison to AU/CFA.

       3.2.3. AU working group representatives. The chair of the university-level WG(s) will
       present the status of activities at each Board meeting.

       3.2.4. Other guests may attend meetings at the discretion of the Board.

    3.3. AU Academic Council (herein after referred to as the Council), provides strategic-level
    guidance and decisions that ensure AU academic programs are of the highest quality and
    program outcomes meet Air Force requirements. The AU/CC chairs the Council and is the
    final approval authority for issues under consideration. When applicable the Council may
    refer issues back to the Board for additional study or work. The AU/CV or AU/CF may chair
    the Council in the absence of the AU/CC.

       3.3.1. Items of interest to the Council include:

           3.3.1.1. Issues which potentially threaten a program’s execution, viability,
           professional accreditation, or the university’s regional accreditation.

           3.3.1.2. Progress toward closing findings or recommendations resulting from reviews
           by external agencies, e.g., AU Board of Visitors (BOV), Command Board of
           Advisors (CBOA), Process for the Accreditation of Joint Education (PAJE), Southern
           Association of Colleges and Schools, Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC), North
AUI36-2606    22 OCTOBER 2013                                                                  5

          Central Association Higher Learning Commission (NCAHLC), Accreditation Board
          for Engineering and Technology (ABET).

          3.3.1.3. Progress toward the university’s QEP as defined in the assessment plan
          submitted to SACSCOC.

          3.3.1.4. Substantive changes as defined in AUI 36-2617, Air University Degree
          Granting, Accreditation, Reaffirmation, and Substantive Change; changes that may
          affect another AU academic program; or any change that could impact regional, joint,
          or other accreditation status.

          3.3.1.5. Other strategic priorities briefed through the Board to the Council for
          information and/or approval.

      3.3.2. Members include the AU/CC, AU/CF, LeMay/CC, Spaatz Center/CC, Holm
      Center/CC, Barnes Center/CC, Eaker Center/CC, AFIT Chancellor, SAASS
      Commandant; AFRI Director, and the AU Faculty Senate President.

      3.3.3. Non-voting advisory members include HQ/AU A-Staff Directors, MSFRIC
      Director, and the AU Registrar.

4. Academic Program Review.

   4.1. Center-level Academic Program Reviews. Center commanders will direct periodic
   internal reviews of all academic programs IAW AUI 36-2312, Air University Assessment
   Programs. Reviews should be integrated with each Center’s academic calendar. Center
   commanders will establish a review schedule most appropriate for the academic programs
   within their respective Centers, but each academic program should be formally reviewed at
   least biennially.

      4.1.1. Center-level program reviews should address, at minimum: 1) the degree to which
      academic program level outcomes were achieved, 2) a program-level summary of student
      and faculty evaluation and feedback data, 3) proposed program improvements and
      changes for the coming year(s), 4) results of program changes from the previous year,
      5) assessment of faculty development efforts, 6) the degree to which AF, DOD, joint, and
      other pertinent requirements were met, 7) resource and support issues that impacted or
      are predicted to impact the educational mission, and 8) accomplishment of Center
      commander strategic guidance. Additionally, academic program reviews may focus on
      contemporary issues impacting content, delivery and/or outcomes, thus Center academic
      program reviews should anticipate potential challenges, risks, and opportunities.

      4.1.2. Executive summaries of Center academic program reviews will be provided to
      AU/CFAE within 10 working days of the program review. If program review
      presentation slides are sufficiently detailed, they can be provided in lieu of an executive
      summary. A short memo/email on the disposition of program change recommendations
      should be attached with the slides.
6                                                     AUI36-2606 22 OCTOBER 2013

    4.1.3. Center program reviews will not be presented through the AU Corporate Process
    unless specifically requested by the AU/CC, or the Center commander.



                                              DAVID S. FADOK, Lt Gen, USAF
                                              Commander and President
AUI36-2606     22 OCTOBER 2013                                                                7


                                       Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 36-2301, Developmental Education, 16 July 2010

AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development, 1 November 1993

AFH 36-2235, Volume 10, Information for Designers of Instruction Systems Application to
Education, 1 November 2002

AUI 36-2312, Air University Assessment Programs, 16 November 2011

AUI 36-2617, Degree Granting, Accreditation, Reaffirmation, and Substantive Change, 30 July
2013

AETCI 16-501, Corporate Structure, 5 October 2011

Adopted Form

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ABET—Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology

ACSC—Air Command and Staff College

ACSC OLMP—ACSC On-Line Master’s Program

AETC/CLO—Chief Learning Officer

AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology

AFRI—Air Force Research Institute

AU/A1—Personnel

AU/A3/6—Education Operations and Communications;

AU/A5/8—Plans and Programs

AU/CFAC—Curriculum Integration

AU/CFAE—Institutional Effectiveness

AU/FM—Financial Management
8                                                       AUI36-2606 22 OCTOBER 2013

AVPAA—Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs

AWC—Air War College

CCAF—Community College of the Air Force

ESWG—Education Support Working Group

MSFRIC—Muir S. Fairchild Research Information Center

NCA-HLC—North Central Association Higher Learning Commission

PAJE—Process for the Accreditation of Joint Education

QEP—Quality Enhancement Plan

SAASS—School of Advanced Air and Space Studies

SACSCOC—Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, Commission on Colleges

SOC—Squadron Officer College

VPAA—Vice President for Academic Affairs

WG—Working Group
