BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2608
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                                   9 JULY 2013

                                                                                      Personnel


                                                                      ACADEMIC FREEDOM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or downloading.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/CFA                                  Certified by: HQ AU/CF (Dr. Bruce T. Murphy)
Supersedes AUI 36-2308, 22 August 2008                                               Pages: 8

This instruction implements AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development. It establishes Air
University policy on academic freedom. It applies to all Air University schools and colleges, all
activities in the Air University educational forum, Air University-sponsored events as well as
publications. For the Community College of the Air Force (CCAF), the CCAF Campus
Relations Policies, Procedures and Guidelines addresses implementation of academic freedom
for affiliated CCAF schools. This policy is also addressed in the Air University Faculty
Handbook. Portions of this instruction are subject to Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military
Justice (UCMJ) as described in paragraphs 2.5.1 and 2.6.1.2. Violation of paragraphs 2.5 or
2.6.1.2 by military personnel is punishable under Article 92, UCMJ. Violations by civilian
employees may result in administrative disciplinary action without regard to otherwise applicable
criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws. Refer recommended changes and/or
corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision modifies duty titles in paragraph 3, and incorporates minor wording adjustments in
paragraph 2.6 to reflect exercise of appropriate reason and judgment in tempering complaints
dealing with issues of academic freedom.
2                                                                    AUI36-2608       9 JULY 2013


1. Academic Freedom. Academic Freedom is defined according to an amended form of the
American Association of University Professors (AAUP) definition of academic freedom, as
follows (see Figure 1.1). All laws and standing regulations concerning the conduct of
government employees (both military and civilian) apply to Air University faculty members as
employees of the U.S. government.

Figure 1.1. Academic Freedom
       Teachers are entitled to full freedom in research and in the publication of the
       results, subject to the adequate performance of their other academic duties; but
       research for pecuniary return should be based upon an understanding with the
       authorities of the institution.

       Teachers are entitled to freedom in the classroom in discussing their subject, but
       should be careful not to introduce into their teaching controversial matter that has
       no relation to their subject.

       College and university teachers are citizens, members of a learned profession, and
       officers of an educational institution. When they speak or write as citizens, they
       should be free from institutional censorship or discipline, but their special position
       in the community imposes certain obligations. As scholars and educational
       officers, they should remember that the public may judge their profession and
       their institution by their utterances. Hence they should at all times endeavor to be
       accurate, should exercise appropriate restraint, should show respect for the
       opinions of others, and should make every effort to indicate that they are not
       speaking for the institution.

NOTE: Although this instruction does not address the concept of academic integrity, see its
definition in Attachment 1 to differentiate it from academic freedom.

2. Policy:

    2.1. Air University supports academic freedom as defined above.

    2.2. Air University faculty, students, and staff are members of a learned profession, and
    members of their respective educational organizations. The free exchange of opinions and
    ideas is essential to the educational process and, to the greatest extent possible, faculty,
    students, and staff are encouraged to speak and write freely. Even in this academic setting,
    however, the importance of the University’s military mission requires limits on some types of
    expression. For example, in accordance with the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ),
    commissioned officers, officer trainees, and cadets may not use contemptuous words toward
    the President, Vice President, Congress, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Air
    Force, and others. In addition, military members may not make disrespectful remarks about a
    superior commissioned officer, nor may an enlisted member make a disrespectful statement
    toward a superior noncommissioned officer. In addition to these specific restrictions on
    military members, faculty, students, and staff should remember that the public might judge
    the armed forces or Air University by their spoken or written statements. In any public forum,
AUI36-2608    9 JULY 2013                                                                        3

  Air University faculty, students and staff members should make every effort to indicate
  clearly that the opinions they express are personal to the member, and do not represent the
  official views of their organization, Air University, the United States Air Force, the US
  government, or any other government or academic community.

  2.3. Guest lecturers, faculty, and students are encouraged to state their opinions and support
  or offer critical opinion of any objective, policy, strategy, or tactic while pursuing knowledge,
  understanding, and improvement of the military profession. When instructing, writing, or
  speaking at any event sponsored by Air University, guest lecturers, faculty, and students must
  adhere to the Air University policy against making offensive remarks and irresponsible
  statements described in paragraph 2.6 of this instruction. The intent of these policies is to
  focus attention on the need for civility and accuracy in the comments individuals make about
  and toward others in an academic environment. In the articulation and defense of ideas and
  positions on issues, individuals should endeavor to be accurate, should show respect for the
  opinions of others, and should make every effort to indicate they do not speak for the
  university.

  2.4. Statements, disagreements, and other comments made by individuals or groups in the
  educational forum are safeguarded through the practice of non-attribution. It is acceptable to
  say “a previous speaker” made a particular statement, but the speaker’s identity may not be
  divulged without permission. Speakers should be aware that non-attribution may not prevent
  the release of materials, remarks, recordings, etc. that are subject to release when requested
  under the freedom of information act

     2.4.1. Communications among students and faculty in a distributed learning environment
     whether in real time (synchronous) or delayed (asynchronous), are privileged (protected),
     and non-attribution applies. Care should be taken to ensure that e-mail or text
     conversations from Internet chat or bulletin board discussions are not forwarded outside
     the educational forum without the permission of the originator.

         2.4.1.1. Distributed learning course providers should take appropriate actions to
         ensure their presentations and class interactions are protected so transmissions and
         communications do not occur in the open, without prior written permission from the
         Air University Academic Office (HQ AU/CFA).

  2.5. All guest speakers, students, and permanent-party personnel are prohibited from
  divulging the identity of any particular speaker, whether a guest speaker, faculty member, or
  student, for the purpose of attributing to that speaker any specific remarks or statements,
  including but not limited to offensive remarks and irresponsible statements, made in the Air
  University educational forum or at Air University-sponsored events, except when required
  during official investigations as described in paragraph 2.6.1.2.

     2.5.1. Violation of this prohibition by military personnel is a violation of Article 92,
     UCMJ. Violations by civilian employees may result in administrative disciplinary action
     without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related
     laws.
4                                                                     AUI36-2608       9 JULY 2013

       2.5.2. Remarks made by guest lecturers, faculty, and students may be released or
       discussed with other individuals outside the school forum only after permission is
       received from the speaker and approval obtained from the school commandant or
       commander concerned, or his or her designated representative. For record-keeping
       purposes, written permission should be obtained when possible. If written permission is
       difficult or impractical to obtain, memos for record or other suitable methods should be
       used to indicate that the speaker has granted permission.

    2.6. Although individuals may debate a wide range of relevant issues, including ones that are
    controversial, academic freedom must be tempered by good judgment so that individuals
    refrain from making unreasonably offensive or irresponsible statements either verbally or in
    writing. Unreasonably offensive or irresponsible statements include comments disparaging
    any person’s race, color, religious beliefs, national origin, ethnic group, sexual orientation, or
    gender. In the spirit of academic freedom, free speech, and intellectual honesty, students are
    encouraged to research and debate relevant issues in a professional manner. Unreasonably
    offensive or irresponsible statements by any student or speaker in any Air University forum
    will not be tolerated. This is not meant to restrict discussions of controversial subjects;
    however, good judgment and discretion must be a guiding standard. Statements made by
    individuals that are clearly designed to incite riots, advocate overthrow of the government,
    encourage intellectual dishonesty or the capricious and arbitrary disregard of standards of
    professional conduct, also fall under the category of unreasonably irresponsible statements.

       2.6.1. Actions Resulting from Unreasonably Offensive or Irresponsible Statements.

           2.6.1.1. Individuals who make unreasonably offensive or irresponsible statements as
           described in paragraph 2.6 at any activity in the Air University educational forum or
           at any event sponsored by Air University are subject to termination of lecture
           privileges, termination of payment for services rendered by a guest lecturer, and or
           adverse administrative or disciplinary action. Individuals who violate the non-
           attribution policy are also subject to adverse administrative and or disciplinary action.

           2.6.1.2. Military personnel subject to the UCMJ who make unreasonably offensive or
           irresponsible statements or violate the non-attribution policy, are subject to
           disciplinary actions under the UCMJ. Cases involving civilian personnel will result
           in a memorandum to the civilian’s supervisor describing the violation of Air
           University policy. Students are also subject to faculty board action under AUI 36-
           2315, Student Disenrollment Procedures, and AFI 51-602, Boards of Officers.

           2.6.1.3. Any individual who attends an activity in any Air University forum may file
           a complaint regarding unreasonably offensive or irresponsible statements where such
           a statement is made. Complaints should be made, in writing and through the school
           or college chain of command, to the commandant or commander of the school or
           college (or the detachment commander for AFROTC) where the remark or statement
           was made. Complaints should be made within 72 hours after the event to ensure a
           timely investigation of the complaint and, if applicable, to comply with paragraph 5 of
           AUI 36-2305, Policies on Presenting and Recording Air University Guest Lectures,
AUI36-2608    9 JULY 2013                                                                       5

         with regard to terminating payment for services rendered by a guest lecturer. The
         commandant or commander investigates the complaint and takes appropriate action.

         2.6.1.4. The name of a person who makes unreasonably offensive or irresponsible
         statements may not be divulged outside the school forum and outside the complaint
         process described above except as required during official investigations of incidents
         of unfounded irresponsible statements or during resulting administrative or
         disciplinary proceedings.

  2.7. All materials intended for presentation outside of DOD channels, publication, or public
  release that are produced in the course of fulfilling one’s duties at AU and that identify the
  author as a member of the faculty, staff, or student body of any AU school or activity must be
  submitted for security and policy review to the Air University Public Affairs (PA) Office (or
  to the Air Force Institute of Technology Public Affairs (AFIT/PA) Office for AFIT students
  and faculty). Such reviews are not forms of censorship. Air University faculty, students, and
  staff have academic freedom in research and publication, as defined in paragraph 1 of this
  instruction. A security review has no impact on a scholar’s interpretation of, or opinion
  about, United States Air Force or DOD policy. The sole purpose of a security review is to
  determine that the materials comply with applicable security guidelines and that United States
  Air Force or DOD policy, when stated, is stated correctly. Reference AUI 14-101, Security
  Review of Research Papers, Textbooks, and Related Documents, and AUI 36-2321, Research
  and Publication, for specific responsibilities regarding the security and policy review process.

     2.7.1. To assist review by AU/PA, all statements of United States Air Force or DOD
     policy, subjects with the potential for security classification, caveated material (FOUO,
     NOFORN, NOCONTRACT, or LIMDIS), or material for which the United States
     government holds copyright should be highlighted.

     2.7.2. Materials intended for publication and distribution outside the Air University
     educational forum must contain the following disclaimer, which may be modified to
     accommodate the specific material being addressed: “The views expressed in this
     academic research paper are those of the author and do not reflect the official policy or
     position of the US government, the Department of Defense, or Air University.”

     2.7.3. In accordance with AFI 51-303, Intellectual Property--Patents, Patent Related
     Matters, Trademarks and Copyrights, materials developed using Air Force appropriated
     funds may not be copyrighted by the individual, but are the property of the United States
     government.

     2.7.4. AU/PA maintains records of materials submitted for security and policy review for
     1 year. If an AU school/college/Center has reason to retain records for longer than 1 year,
     they must maintain their own records.
6                                                                    AUI36-2608      9 JULY 2013


3. Responsibilities:

    3.1. Each Air University college, school, Center, or organization must identify an office of
    primary responsibility (OPR) within their organization whose responsibility it is to ensure
    this policy is fully understood by all faculty and staff members, students, and guest lecturers.
    Questions concerning administration or enforcement of this policy should be addressed to the
    Air University Vice President for Academic Affairs (AU/CF)"

    3.2. School/college faculty periodically remind students of this policy and monitor question
    periods to help ensure compliance.

    3.3. Individuals who believe their academic freedom has been violated may seek redress,
    first, through the organization or activity where the proposed violation occurred through the
    organizational chain of command. If the violation being claimed by the individual occurred
    with the individual’s immediate supervisor (instructor), then the individual is permitted to
    bypass the immediate supervisor (instructor) and submit the claim for redress to the next
    level within the organizational chain of command.

       3.3.1. The individual’s request for redress of an academic freedom violation must include
       a precise and complete description of the incident in question, from the individual’s
       perspective; statements from eye witnesses, if any; and the specific redress the individual
       is seeking.

       3.3.2. This action must be initiated by the individual, and documented, within one
       calendar year of the alleged violation.

       3.3.3. If satisfactory resolution is not obtained at the organization or activity level, the
       individual may elevate the complaint to the Air University Vice President for Academic
       Affairs (AU/CF), who will, in coordination with the AU Legal Office (AU/JA), review
       the case and provide a recommendation to the AU Commander and President (AU/CC).
       The decision of the AU Commander and President is final.

       3.3.4. If the resolution of the case involves actions against a faculty or staff member of a
       school, the appropriate school/Center commandant/commander will consult AU/JA as
       necessary to determine appropriate disciplinary actions.



                                              DAVID S. FADOK, Lt Gen, USAF
                                              Commander and President, Air University
AUI36-2608     9 JULY 2013                                                                7


                                       Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)

AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011

AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manual Program (FMP), 22 December 2008

AFI 51-303, Intellectual Property--Patents, Patent Related Matters, Trademarks & Copyrights,
1 September 1998

AFI 51-602, Boards of Officers, 2 March 1994

AUI 14-101, Security Review of Research Papers, Textbooks, & Related Documents, 29 August
2008

AUI 36-2305, Policies on Presenting and Recording Air University Guest Lectures, 1 December
2011

AUI 36-2609, Academic Integrity, 2 April 2012

AUI 36-2315, Student Disenrollment Procedures, 19 November 2008

AUI 36-2321, Research and Publication, 27 October 2011

Air University Faculty Handbook (updated annually)

Adopted Form

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AAUP – American Association of University Professors

AFIT – Air Force Institute of Technology

AFROTC – Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corp

AU/PA – Headquarters Air University Public Affairs Office

FOUO – For Official Use Only

LIMDIS – Limited Distribution

NOCONTRACT – No Contractor Disclosure
8                                                                 AUI36-2608      9 JULY 2013


NOFORN – No Foreign Disclosure

UCMJ – Uniform Code of Military Justice

Terms

Academic Integrity – Uncompromising adherence to a code of ethics, morality, conduct,
scholarship, and other values related to academic activity.

Air University-Sponsored Event – Any educational forum or discussion outside resident
periods of instruction or the distributed learning environment where speakers interact with
faculty, students, or staff members. Examples include such events as roundtable discussions,
symposia, colloquia, etc., which may be conducted by any Air University organization.

Educational Forum – Any scheduled period of instruction taking place in a resident
environment (an auditorium, classroom, or field leadership activity) or distributed learning
environment (a nonresident seminar, online Internet session via computer, networked
teleconference presentation, or otherwise televised instructional broadcasts) where discussions,
either written or verbal, are part of an official course sponsored by Air University.

Non-attribution – Treating statements made in school forum as privileged information not to be
attributed to a specific individual.

Policy Review – The process of determining that all statements of United States Air Force and
DOD policy are accurate.

Security Review – The process of determining that materials under consideration do not violate
applicable security guidelines.
