BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2321
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                            27 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                            RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFRI/RID                                                            Certified by: AFRI/CV
                                                                         (Dr. Anthony C. Cain)
Supersedes:   AUI 36-2321, 24 July 2006                                                Pages: 18


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-23, Military Education. It
states objectives, specifies responsibilities, and establishes procedures for Air University (AU)
research and publication. It applies to all research and publication within AU, excluding Air
Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) research and publication, which is administered at Wright-
Patterson AFB. AFIT establishes and maintains appropriate instructions to govern its research
and publications and will coordinate/link with AU research and publication processes as
specifically noted. Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records        Information       Management         System        (AFRIMS),       available    at
https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.          This publication applies to all AU
organizations that conduct research and publish their findings.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been significantly revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. Major
revisions include: (1) reflect organizational changes at AU since the last revision of this
instruction; (2) re-designates the AU Research Board as the AU Research Council and the AU
Research Board Working Group as the AU Research Working Group; (3) designate AU
Education Logistics and Communications responsibilities for the AU research database; (4)
include Air University Strategic Issues List (AUSIL) to the AU research agenda.
 2                                                            AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011


1. General. As the intellectual and leadership center of the Air Force, AU is both a teaching
and a research institution. Research enhances the accomplishment of the AU mission by
educating its students, by developing its faculty, and by advancing the ideas that inform its
curricula and contribute to national security, particularly in the domains of air, space, and
cyberspace. At the same time, as a military institution, research at AU must be timely, relevant,
and responsive to the needs of the Air Force and the Department of Defense (DOD). The AU
commander (AU/CC) strategically directs and guides AU research and publication through the
AU Research Council (AURC). The AURC reviews the full spectrum of AU research programs
and processes—from topic development through research dissemination.
     1.1. Air University Research Council.
        1.1.1. The AURC is chaired by the AU/CC. Other members include the AU vice-
        commander (AU/CV), the director of the Air Force Research Institute (AFRI/CL), the
        AU Chief Academic Officer (AU/CF), the AFIT commander (AFIT/CC), the Spaatz
        Center commander/Air War College commandant (Spaatz/CC), Air Command and Staff
        College commandant (ACSC/CC), the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies
        commandant (SAASS/CC), the Barnes Center commander (Barnes/CC), the director of
        the Muir S. Fairchild Research Information Center (MSFRIC), the deputy director of
        AFRI (AFRI/DV) and the chief of AFRI Engagement Division (AFRI/RID) (executive
        secretary).
        1.1.2. The AURC typically meets in the fall or as directed by the AU/CC to examine AU
        research programs and to discuss other issues important to Air University. As part of the
        AURC process, the AU/CC will
            1.1.2.1. Review each AU school’s research accomplishments from the previous
            academic year (AY) and the current AY’s research programs.
               1.1.2.1.1. The AU/CC may provide guidance or actionable items for the current
               or following AY’s research agenda.
            1.1.2.2. Review and direct any changes to the AU Strategic Issues List (AUSIL). The
            AUSIL is an AFRI developed list of strategic topics that guides contracted research at
            AFRI and informs conference and symposium agendas at AU. The AUSIL is
            published annually to make AU researchers aware of strategic topics that are of
            interest to the Air Force and the DOD.
            1.1.2.3. Review, approve, and direct any changes to AURC procedures and
            processes.
        1.1.3. The AFRI/RID division chief will document AURC discussions and decisions and
        prepare the official minutes for AU/CC review and approval.
     1.2. AU Research Working Group (AUR-WG).
        1.2.1. The regular members of the AUR-WG are: AFRI/DV (chair), the AFIT dean for
        research, the academic deans (or their designated representatives) of AU schools and
        colleges, the Spaatz Center senior educational administrator (Spaatz/CF), the director of
        Spaatz Academic Centers (Spaatz/AR), the SAASS senior educational administrator
        (SAASS/AS), the chief of AU Public Affairs, the director of AU Education Logistics, and
        Communications (A4/6), the chiefs of research and publication for AU schools, and the
AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                                      3


       AFRI/RID division chief (executive secretary). Other AU organizations and personnel
       may be called upon to assist the AUR-WG as required. Additionally, the AUR-WG
       meetings are open to personnel from any AU organizations who wish to observe or
       contribute to the AU research process.
       1.2.2. The AUR-WG meets in advance of each AURC, or when directed by AFRI/DV, to
       evaluate the status of and recommend improvements to AU research processes and
       procedures.
       1.2.3. The AUR-WG helps manage the AU research agenda by identifying topics for
       inclusion in the AUSIL.
2. Policy.
   2.1. Research Requirements.
       2.1.1. AU research will be current, relevant, and responsive and will generally focus on
       airpower and topics important to the Air Force and the DOD.
       2.1.2. With few exceptions, all US officer students enrolled in intermediate or senior
       developmental education postgraduate degree programs will write a minimum of one
       formal research paper.
             2.1.2.1. AU students enrolled in intermediate or senior developmental education
             postgraduate degree programs should refer to the externally sponsored topic (EST)
             list before selecting their research topics. ESTs identify timely and relevant issues
             important to senior defense and government leaders.
       2.1.3. AU faculty members should supervise student research, conduct relevant research,
       write for publication, and engage in appropriate research-consulting activities. See the
       AU Faculty Handbook for specific details.
             2.1.3.1. AU faculty may conduct research under the sponsorship of other United
             States Air Force and DOD agencies.
   2.2. Research Classification.
       2.2.1. AU researchers who conduct classified research will ensure compliance with
       procedures for identifying, marking, safeguarding, and disseminating classified
       information.
       2.2.2. AU researchers will treat research products as controlled unclassified information
       until the security and policy review (SPR) is complete.
   2.3. Human Subject Research. Human subject research includes data collection from or
   identifiable information about a living individual, and is not necessarily limited to medically
   related investigations.
       2.3.1. All AU personnel who participate in human subjects research will ensure that
       appropriate federal and DOD standards for the ethical treatment of humans are followed.
       The AU goal is to limit the risk of harm to those participating human subjects and to
       protect their confidentiality and identity.
 4                                                              AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011


            2.3.1.1. AU researchers who conduct surveys and/or interviews, make observations,
            or accomplish other activities that involve living human subjects (or obtain such data
            from other researchers or sources) may be conducting human subjects research and
            must comply with the appropriate regulations governing that type of research. At a
            minimum, researchers should reference: Title 45 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR);
            32 CFR, part 219; DOD Directive (DODD) 3216.2; Air Force Instruction (AFI) 38-
            501, Air Force Personnel Survey Program, and AU Supplement 1; AFI 40-402,
            Protection of Human Subjects in Biomedical and Behavioral Research and its
            attachment 12; and AUI 36-2322, Air University Institutional Effectiveness and
            Institutional Research.
            2.3.1.2. AU researchers at the Maxwell campus should contact the AU Chief of
            Institutional Effectiveness (AU/CFAE) for additional direction and guidance and
            AFIT researchers should contact the Office of Research and Sponsored Programs
            (AFIT/ENR) for guidance. AU/CFAE and AFIT/ENR are the primary contacts for the
            Human Subjects Research Protection Program at the Maxwell and Wright Patterson
            campuses respectively, and serve as liaisons between AU research investigators and
            institutional review boards (IRBs) for the purposes of submitting research protocols
            for review and to ensure AU oversight of research and documentation/archival of
            required research artifacts.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
     3.1. AU Research Champion and Director, Air Force Research Institute. AFRI/CL serves as
     the senior advisor to the AU/CC and as champion for AU research and publication. AFRI/CL
     will
        3.1.1. Advise the AU/CC on the annual AU research agenda.
        3.1.2. Serve as the executive director of the AURC and convey the AU/CC’s intent and
        direction to other members of the AURC and AUR-WG.
        3.1.3. Champion AU research capabilities and solicit senior contributor participation.
        3.1.4. Coordinate and assist AU schools with external research sponsorship and funding.
        3.1.5. Direct AU Special Research Task (SRT) accomplishment for the AU/CC.
        3.1.6. Manage Air Force Fellows research.
     3.2. Deputy Director, Air Force Research Institute.
        3.2.1. Organizes and serves as the chair for AUR-WG meetings.
        3.2.2. Briefs AU’s research       agenda,    on-going    research   efforts,   issues,   and
        accomplishments to the AURC.
        3.2.3. Coordinates and manages all AU SRT projects.
        3.2.4. Coordinates with the Air War College, Air Command and Staff College, School of
        Advance Air and Space Studies, and AFIT regarding the currency of SME information,
        research data, and professional activities.
AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                                     5


  3.3. Commander, Spaatz Center.
     3.3.1. Provides guidance to Spaatz schools and academic centers on the Spaatz Center
     research agenda for the coming year.
     3.3.2. Briefs the combined research agendas of the Spaatz Center schools and academic
     centers, on-going research efforts, issues, and accomplishments to the AURC.
     3.3.3. When tasked, provides AFRI/CL with SMEs for SRTs.
     3.3.4. Reviews AFRI project concepts to identify appropriate opportunities for
     collaboration with Spaatz Center researchers.
  3.4. Commandants/Commanders, AU Schools, Colleges, or Institutes and the Director,
  Spaatz Academic Centers.
     3.4.1. Develop their schools’ research agenda and processes consistent with AURC
     guidance. Integrate research and publication programs into the curriculum to support
     AU’s education objectives and research mission.
        3.4.1.1. Ensure that faculty, staff, and student researchers address AU/CC’s topics of
        interest as appropriate to their unit’s mission.
        3.4.1.2. Brief their schools’ research agenda, ongoing research efforts, issues, and
        accomplishments to the AURC, or to their designated representative to the Council.
        3.4.1.3. Support the development of the EST list by supplying AFRI/RID with SME
        information and potential research sponsors for the AU/CC’s ―Call for Topics‖.
        3.4.1.4. Establish a process to ensure that research topics developed external to the
        EST list are entered into the AU research database at the time research commences.
     3.4.2. Designate a chief of research and publication to serve as their schools’ primary
     faculty advisor on all matters related to research and publication.
     3.4.3. Support student researchers with faculty research advisors (FRA).
     3.4.4. Ensure that SME listing, research data, and professional activities for their faculty
     and staff are complete and current for their organization.
     3.4.5. When tasked, provide AFRI/CL with SMEs for SRTs.
     3.4.6. Develop and maintain their schools’ standards for posting and publication.
     Recommend research products for posting or publication on the basis of academic and
     professional merit.
     3.4.7. Establish a process to ensure that SPRs are accomplished for all research products
     intended for public release in accordance with AFI 35-102, Public Affairs Policies and
     Procedures; Air Education and Training Command (AETC) SUP1 to AFI 35-102,
     chapter 15; Air University Instruction (AUI) 36-2308, Academic Freedom; and AUI 14-
     101, Security Review of Research Papers, Textbooks, and Related Documents.
        3.4.7.1. Establish a process to ensure that personnel involved in the SPR process
        receive annual AU/PA training as required.
6                                                             AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011


    3.5. Air Force Institute of Technology. AFIT’s technically-focused research situation is
    unique within AU. AFIT integrates its research efforts into the larger scope of AU’s through
    collaborative efforts and the AURC process. The AFIT commandant or designated
    representative will
       3.5.1. Manage and track research efforts.
       3.5.2. Brief the school’s research agenda, on-going research efforts, issues, and
       accomplishments to the AURC.
       3.5.2.1.    Document research accomplishments and ongoing efforts through the
       publication of the AFIT Graduate School of Engineering and Management Annual
       Report, AFIT Research Report, and AFIT Research News.
       3.5.3. Load AFIT publicly releasable graduate research papers into the AU research
       database, after completing SPR.
       3.5.4. Review AFRI project concepts to identify appropriate opportunities for
       collaboration with AFIT researchers.
    3.6. Deans, AU Schools and Colleges
       3.6.1. Serve as their organizations’ primary representative to the AUR-WG.
       3.6.2. Manage their organizations’ research programs as directed by the commander.
    3.7. Senior Educational Administrator, Spaatz Center and the School of Advanced Air and
    Space Studies.
       3.7.1. Serve as their Center/School advisor to the AUR-WG.
       3.7.2. Advise their commander/commandant on research agenda, processes, and
       publication issues.
    3.8. Chiefs of Research and Publication, AU Schools and Colleges.
       3.8.1. Serve as members of the AUR-WG.
       3.8.2. Manage their organizations’          research   program   as   directed   by   the
       commander/commandant.
    3.9. AFRI Dean of Research.
       3.9.1. Reviews AFIT project concepts to identify appropriate opportunities for
       collaboration with AFRI researchers.
       3.9.2. Develops and manages the AUSIL.
    3.10. Chief, AFRI Engagement Division.
       3.10.1. Serves as the executive secretary of the AURC and the AUR-WG.
           3.10.1.1. Prepares AURC minutes for AU/CC review, approval, and distribution.
           3.10.1.2. Assists AFRI/CL with agenda and briefing slides for AURC and AUR-WG
           meetings.
       3.10.2. Prepares, coordinates, and distributes the AU/CC’s ―Call for Topics‖ letters to
       senior Air Force, joint, and interagency leaders.
AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                                   7


         3.10.2.1. Elicits, records, and tracks sponsor feedback for research products from the
         EST.
     3.10.3. Provides functional and administrative support to AU research database users.
         3.10.3.1. Maintains the EST research list in the AU research database.
         3.10.3.2. Ensures that student research products are posted in the publically
         accessible AU research database after SPRs are conducted by AU/PA.
     3.10.4. Publishes the AU Research Bulletin annually to report on that AY’s AU research
     and publication accomplishments, AU’s research programs, and related research
     information. Note: AFIT publishes a complementary record of its accomplishments in the
     AFIT Graduate School of Engineering and Management Annual Report, AFIT Research
     Report, and AFIT Research News.
         3.10.4.1. Documents AFIT research award winners in the Air University Research
         Bulletin if available at the time of publication.
  3.11. AU Faculty.
     3.11.1. Support student and AU research by serving as FRAs and SMEs, and by
     performing initial SPR assessments of the research they advise.
         3.11.1.1. Self-nominate as SMEs.
     3.11.2. Maintain current information regarding faculty expertise in the AU research
     database.
     3.11.3. Conduct individual professional research and publication in accordance with
     position descriptions and school procedures and policies.
     3.11.4. Are encouraged to conduct research under the sponsorship of other US Air Force,
     DOD, and federal agencies.
  3.12. Faculty Research Advisors.
     3.12.1. Direct postgraduate research in accordance with the educational programs,
     policies and procedures of their respective schools and colleges.
     3.12.2. Coordinate any emerging topic through the school’s dean or its chief of research
     and publications.
     3.12.3. Evaluate completed postgraduate research in accordance with school or college
     policies and standards.
  3.13. Subject Matter Experts.
     3.13.1. Support AU researchers as duties permit.
     3.13.2. Use their expertise to serve as FRAs to student researching topics in a specific
     subject matter area.
     3.13.3. Keep their professional data (professional activities, conference participation,
     consultations, and so forth) current.
 8                                                             AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011


     3.14. AU Command Advisors and Chairs.
        3.14.1. Coordinate research efforts between AU and sponsoring organizations.
        3.14.2. Review topics submitted by sponsoring major command (MAJCOM) and provide
        input to AU academic deans and chiefs of research for their research agendas.
        3.14.3. Serve as SMEs and identify SMEs from their command to assist AU researchers.
     3.15. AU Education Logistics and Communications (A4/6).
        3.15.1. Coordinates with AUR-WG members and other representatives of school
        research programs to develop and maintain research automation capabilities to
            3.15.1.1. Serve as a resource for making research topics available to all AU
            researchers.
            3.15.1.2. Serve as a repository for all AU research products selected for public
            posting.
            3.15.1.3. Serve as a management tool for facilitating topic selection, research
            program effectiveness, reporting, and soliciting external feedback on research results.
        3.15.2. Provides funding, contracting, and technical and developmental support for the
        AU research automation.
        3.15.3. Informs AU research managers of improvements in information technology that
        could make research programs more effective.
     3.16. AU Public Affairs.
        3.16.1. Manages the SPR of all AU research products.
        3.16.2. Provides annual SPR training for faculty and staff members of AU schools and
        colleges as required.
     3.17. Director, Muir S. Fairchild Research Information Center.
        3.17.1. Serves as a primary member of the AURC and an associate member of the AUR-
        WG.
        3.17.2. Maintains AU research products in accordance with AFI 36-2303, Documents
        and Publications for the Air University Library.
4. Research Process.
     4.1. Overview. Research at AU, which embraces scholarly inquiry of topics and issues of
     interest to military and government leaders and policy makers, is conducted according to the
     norms of academic discipline and professional specialization. AU schools manage research
     programs in support of AU’s educational objectives and research mission. The overall AU
     research agenda is comprised of the aggregate agendas for AU organizations that perform
     research. The AU research process is managed through the AURC. AURC meeting minutes
     provide the AU/CC’s intent and constitute interim guidance to this instruction. Major
     changes to AU research processes or procedures derived from the AURC meeting minutes
     will be incorporated into subsequent versions of this instruction.
AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                                     9


  4.2. Research Agendas.
     4.2.1. AU schools will develop and manage their research agendas.
     4.2.2. The AFRI Dean of Research will develop the AUSIL. The AUSIL seeks to create
     research opportunities that will help sharpen the minds of air, space, and cyberspace
     leaders and produce innovative thinking. The AUSIL
         4.2.2.1. Serves as the primary source for soliciting funded research from AU and will
         guide contract research at AFRI.
         4.2.2.2. Provides a basis for AU-hosted conferences/symposia topics and agendas.
         4.2.2.3. Is published during the academic year research cycle as an additional topic
         development resource for AU researchers.
  4.3. Student Research. AU student research is intended to enhance the students’ analytical,
  organizational, and writing skills. Student research may also provide knowledge relevant to
  the needs of the Air Force and DOD.
     4.3.1. AU schools manage student research congruent with AU educational and research
     objectives. Commandants and commanders provide the AU/CC with program status,
     updates and recommended program changes at the AURC. They also
         4.3.1.1. Use the EST list to inform the student research agenda and report the
         percentage of papers that address ESTs to the AURC and the AU Strategy Review
         Board. Students may address a topic that is not on the EST; these topics will be
         included in the list to the AURC and the AU Strategy Review Board.
            4.3.1.1.1. Ensure that student researchers address AU/CC’s topics of interest as
            appropriate to their own research interests/capabilities, the capabilities of faculty
            advisors, and the mission of the school or college in which they are studying.
         4.3.1.2. Assess individual or emerging research topics for consistency with the needs
         of national security and the Air Force, AURC guidance, and their school’s particular
         mission.
         4.3.1.3. Use the AU research database to maintain, track, and report on publishable
         student research.
  4.4. Faculty and Staff Research. As part of the AU strategic objective, all postgraduate
  schools encourage faculty and staff to conduct professional and scholarly research. Faculty
  research advances the body of knowledge, develops faculty skills in both research and
  research direction, and informs AU curricula.
     4.4.1. AU schools will manage faculty and staff research to support the professional
     development of faculty and staff and provide the AU/CC with a program status report at
     the AURC.
     4.4.2. When feasible, commandants/commanders will authorize sponsored sabbaticals
     for faculty and staff.
  4.5. Directed Research. Directed research normally originates with the secretary of the Air
  Force, chief of staff of the Air Force, AETC/CC, and AU/CC.
 10                                                          AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011


       4.5.1. AFRI will manage directed research on behalf of the AU/CC and provide him with
       program status, updates, and recommended program changes at the AURC.
       4.5.2. The AU/CC will normally task AFRI with SRTs and will inform AU commanders
       and commandants of the research question, target audience, desired product, and
       deadline.
          4.5.2.1. AFRI will determine resource requirements, coordinate with AU academic
          and research schools for SMEs or other resources, and develop an SRT team to
          accomplish the SRT.
          4.5.2.2. The SRT team will provide AFRI/CL with research results, briefings, and
          other products associated with the SRT.
          4.5.2.3. AFRI/CL will determine additional briefing requirements and ensure that the
          result of the SRT research is briefed to the AU/CC and any appropriate external
          audiences.
          4.5.2.4. The AFRI deputy director will determine the level of editing required for
          directed research products. AFRI/CV will task AFRI Outreach Division (AFRI/RIJ)
          and AFRI Engagement Division (AFRI/RID) for editing and formatting prior to
          delivery to the requestor.
   4.6. Financially Supported Research. Financially supported research may further promote
   education, research, and publication in professional military fields of specialization. It may
   also be required to augment AU research efforts for which there is a lack of subject matter
   expertise. Financially supported research falls into three categories: research performed by
   AU researchers who are financially subsidized by external agencies; research that is
   accomplished under grant from an external agency; and research that is contracted out to
   external agencies by AU.
       4.6.1. AU faculty and staff are encouraged to conduct research under the sponsorship
       and with financial subsidies of other US Air Force, DOD, and federal agencies. AU
       organizations will provide the AU/CC with a status report of financially subsidized
       research at the AURC.
       4.6.2. In accordance with Public Law 109–163, National Defense Authorization Act for
       Fiscal Year 2006, subtitle C, part I, section 522, 10 U.S.C. §§ 9314, AFIT and Air War
       College are the only AU organizations that are permitted to compete for and accept
       research grants from a corporation, fund, foundation, school, or similar entity. The AFIT
       and AWC commandants will report the status of research grants to the AURC.
       4.6.3. AU organizations that contract research to outside agencies in support of AU
       research and will report the status to the AURC.
   4.7. AFIT Research. AFIT will manage its research efforts and provide the AU/CC with
   program status, updates and recommended program changes at the AURC.
5. Publication Process.
   5.1. Overview. The delivery or dissemination of AU research products depends on the type
   of research product and the publishing opportunities available to AU researchers. For this
   instruction, ―publication‖ refers to a merit-based selection of AU research, its refinement
AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                                   11


  through an editorial process, and subsequent dissemination via electronic or printed media.
  AU researchers may have the opportunity to have their research published in AU Press
  journals, AU Press publications, and other publications external to AU. The term ―posting‖
  describes AU postgraduate research made available electronically in research databases,
  generally without professional editing.
  5.2. Public Release.
     5.2.1. Research products intended for public release will be measured against applicable
     standards. The category of research and the publishing opportunities available will
     govern the standards a research product must meet.
     5.2.2. Some AU research products may not be intended for public release or may not
     meet the standards for public release. AU research products not intended for public
     release or dissemination may be released internally through the appropriate Air Force and
     DOD channels.
         5.2.2.1. An SPR is required for all research products released to agencies external to
         AU.
  5.3. Posting of Student Research.
     5.3.1. Each AU school will determine its own standards for posting student research
     products.
         5.3.1.1. Student research products that meet the standards for posting undergo SPR,
         are publicly posted in research databases, and are sent to the sponsor.
         5.3.1.2. Student research that does not meet standards for public posting may be
         posted in nonpublic research databases or retained by the school.
             5.3.1.2.1. AU schools assess the value of the externally sponsored research and
             determine whether to send to the sponsor.
  5.4. Standards of Publication.
     5.4.1. AFRI will determine the standards for publication of research products in AU
     professional journals and AFRI-sponsored series of papers (AFRI papers, Fairchild
     papers, Walker papers, and Drew papers).
     5.4.2. Each school will determine standards of publication for their respective series of
     papers.
         5.4.2.1. AU schools may submit superior research products to AFRI/RIJ or the AU
         Publication Review Board (PRB) for publication in one of several AU venues
         (Walker Papers, Maxwell Papers, Wright Flyers, Drew Papers, the Wright Stuff, etc.)
         or by media such as papers, journals, periodicals, articles, contributions to symposia,
         book chapters, or books. AFRI/RIJ will provide professional editing appropriate to
         the publishing venue.
     5.4.3. The PRB will determine standards for other AU Press publications (books, AU-
     numbered texts, etc.) (Refer to AUI 33-301, Air University Press Publications, for
     procedures).
12                                                         AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011


     5.4.4. AU researchers may also have an opportunity for publication in a venue external
     to AU. The research product must meet standards for those publications.
  5.5. Security and Policy Review Process. All AU research products intended for release
  external to AU will undergo SPR.
     5.5.1. AU/PA will manage the SPR process for all publicly released AU research
     products. AU/PA will
        5.5.1.1. Complete a timely SPR of all submitted research products as described in
        AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Responsibilities and Management; supplemented by
        AETC Sup 1 to AFI 35-101; and AUI 36-2308, Academic Freedom, to ensure that
        only research products that meet Secretary of the Air Force/PA and Office of the
        Secretary of Defense/PA guidelines for public release are allowed to be published or
        posted in public venues.
        5.5.1.2. Provide a checklist to AU schools to aid postgraduate researchers in the
        initial SPR assessment.
     5.5.2. AU researchers will perform an initial SPR assessment of their research products.
     They will treat a product as classified if in doubt about the classification of any of its
     material, until that material is either confirmed to be unclassified or removed from the
     product.
        5.5.2.1. Student researchers will document the assessment on an AU/PA-developed
        checklist.
        5.5.2.2. AU researchers will coordinate SPR accomplishment with AU/PA to ensure
        completion prior to release to any agency external to AU.
     5.5.3. AU schools will:
        5.5.3.1. Ensure that faculty and staff members who review and certify research
        products accomplish annual SPR training provided by AU/PA.
        5.5.3.2. Ensure an SME review and certify all research products that are publicly
        available, in accordance with AUI 36-2308, Academic Freedom.
        5.5.3.3. SMEs will highlight the portions of the product that raise classification or
        national security concerns when forwarding them to AU/PA for further review.
        5.5.3.4. SMEs will report to the school’s/center’s security officer for appropriate
        action any case in which they determine that a research product contains unprotected
        classified material.
     5.5.4. AFRI/RIJ will ensure that SPR has been completed and that the manuscript has
     been cleared for unconditional public release before beginning the editing process for AU
     Press publications.
AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                               13


  5.6. Printing and Distribution.
     5.6.1. AFRI/RIJ and AFRI/RID will coordinate the editing, printing, and distribution of
     AU Press publications in accordance with local procedures and AFI 36-2303, Documents
     and Publications for the Air University Library.




                                         DAVID S. FADOK
                                         Lieutenant General, USAF
                                         Commander, Air University
 14                                                       AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODI 5230.29, Security and Policy Review of DOD Information for Public Release, 8 January
2009
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review Process, 20 October 2009
AFI 36-2303, Documents and Publications for the Air University Library, 16 March 1994
AFI 38-501, Air Force Survey Program, 12 May 2010
AFI 36-2601/AU Supplement, Air Force Personnel Survey Program, 6 November 2009 (will
convert to AFI 38-501/AU Supplement, Air Force Survey Program)
AFI 40-402, Protection of Human Subjects in Biomedical and Behavioral Research, 5 May 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AUI 14-301, Security Review of Research Papers, Textbooks, and Related Documents,
29 August 2008
AUI 36-2308, Academic Freedom, 22 August 2008
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 1 April 2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACSC—Air Command and Staff College
AFF—Air Force Fellows
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFIT/ENR—Office of Research and Sponsored Programs (Air Force Institute of Technology)
AFRI/RID—Air Force Research Institute Engagement Division
AFRI/RIJ—Air Force Research Institute Engagement Division
AFRI/RIR—Air Force Research Institute Engagement Division
AU—Air University
AUI—Air University Instruction
AU/CC—Air University Commander
AU/CF—Air University Chief Academic Officer
AU/CV—Air University Vice-Commander
AU/DR—Air University Dean of Research
AU/PA—Air University Public Affairs
AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                                     15


AURC—Air University Research Board
AUR—WG— Air University Research Board Working Group
AWC—Air War College
AY—Academic Year
DOD—Department of Defense
DTIC—Defense Technical Information Center
FOUO—For Official Use Only
FRA—Faculty Research Advisor
IDE—Intermediate Developmental Education
MAJCOM—Major Command (Air Force)
MSFRIC—Muir S. Fairchild Research Information Center
PME—Professional Military Education
SAASS—School of Advanced Air and Space Studies
SIPRNET—Secure Internet Protocol Network
SME—Subject Matter Expert
SPR—Security and Policy Review
SRT—AU Special Research Task

Terms
Air Command and Staff College (ACSC)—The Air Force’s intermediate developmental
education (IDE) school, prepares field grade officers of all services (primarily majors and major
selects), international officers, and US civilians to be tomorrow’s leaders and commanders and
assume positions of higher responsibility within the military and other government arenas.
ACSC teaches the skills necessary to conduct air and space operations in support of a joint
campaign.
Air Force Fellows (AFF)—AFF develops senior air and space power leaders with a strategic
under-standing of international security and civil-military affairs by assigning a small number of
carefully chosen, experienced officers to serve one-year tours at distinguished civilian schools
studying national security policy and strategy.           These programs, which carry senior
developmental education (SDE)/intermediate developmental education (IDE) professional
military education programs (PME) credit for eligible officers, include: the Air Force Legislative
Fellows, National Defense Fellows, RAND Fellows, National Security Fellows, Secretary of
Defense Fellows, and a military fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.
Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT)—Located at Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, AFIT is
the Air Force’s graduate school of engineering and management as well as its school for
technical professional continuing education.
 16                                                          AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011


Air Force Institute of Technology Office of Research and Sponsored Programs
(AFIT/ENR)—AFIT ENR provides policy recommendations and assistance on all matters
relating to academic research, sponsored programs, consulting, and technology transfer. The
office facilitates research sponsorship and project management, compiles and publishes research
program information, addresses research-related compliance issues, and orients new faculty to
the AFIT research environment.
Air Force Research Institute (AFRI)—AFRI conducts independent research, outreach, and
engagement to enhance national security and assure the effectiveness of the United States Air
Force.
Air University (AU)—The intellectual and leadership center of the Air Force, AU provides the
full spectrum of Air Force education from pre-commissioning to the highest levels of PME,
including degree granting and professional continuing education for officers, enlisted, and
civilian personnel throughout their careers.
Air University Instruction (AUI)—AUIs provides Air University command guidance and
direction on specific topics or processes of interest to AU schools.
Air University Research Council (AURC)—Chaired by the commander of Air University, the
board strategically directs and guides research and publication within the university.
Air University Research Working Group (AUR-WG)—Chaired by the deputy director, AFRI
(AFRI/DV), the AUR-WG is composed of deans/representatives of AU’s research schools. The
working group is the coordinating body for AURC policy and agenda.
Air War College (AWC)—The Air Force’s senior developmental education (SDE) school,
AWC annually prepares over 250 resident and 3,500 nonresident students from all US military
services, federal agencies, and allied nations to lead in the strategic environment. The college
stresses joint military operations and the employment of air and space power in support of
national security objectives.
AU/CC “Call for Topics”—The AU/CC sends an annual letter to the DOD, service chiefs,
unified commands, Air Staff, Air Force MAJCOMs, executive branch, agencies, battle labs, and
so forth, requesting topics to use in building the AU post graduate research EST list.
AU Dean of Research—The dean is the primary AU advisor to the AU/CC on all research
issues and is ―dual hatted‖ as the director of AFRI.
AU Research Bulletin—Published annually by AFRI/RID, this bulletin highlights recently
completed research at AU, recognizing the research accomplishments of AU faculty and students
during the previous AY.
AU Strategic Issues List (AUSIL)—The AUSIL includes research topics developed by
AFRI/RID and approved by the AU/CC. The AUSIL serves as the primary vehicle for contract
research at AU. It also provides a basis for conferences/symposia hosted by or partnered with
AU. The AUSIL is published during the academic year research cycle as an additional topic
development resource for AU researchers.
AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                                      17


Barnes Center—The Barnes Center discharges AU's responsibility for the education of future
enlisted leaders throughout the Air Force. The Barnes Center has direct oversight of the AF
Enlisted Heritage Research Institute (AFEHRI), the Air Force Senior Non-Commisioned Officer
Academy (SNCOA), Air Force CONUS Non-Commissioned Officer Academies (NCOA), and
the Educational Programs Cadre (EPC) while lending guidance to overseas NCOA's and Airman
Leadership Schools worldwide.
Chief of Research and Publication (COR)—A senior AU faculty member, the COR serves as
primary advisor to the commander/commandant of an AU school or college on matters relating
to research and publication.
Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC)—The central DOD facility for the collection
and dissemination of scientific and technical information, the DTIC supports the warfighter and
serves as a vital link in the transfer of information among DOD personnel, contractors, and
potential contractors as well as other US government agency personnel/contractors.
Emerging Topic—An emerging topic is a research topic developed externally to the AU/CC’s
annual ―Call for Topics‖ letters and AUSIL.
Externally Sponsored Topic (EST) List—The EST list includes research topics solicited by the
AU/CC, coordinated by AFRI, and approved by the AU dean of research as suitable for AU
externally sponsored research or in support of school/program research agendas.
Faculty Research Advisor (FRA)—An FRA is an AU faculty member assigned to direct and
evaluate postgraduate student research.
Lemay Center—As the principal Air Force organization responsible for doctrine expertise, the
LeMay Center develops, advocates, assesses, and revises Air Force, Joint, and multi-national
doctrine and ensures doctrinal concepts are integrated into AF tactics, techniques and procedures,
education, and wargaming to enhance warfighting
Muir S. Fairchild Research Information Center (MSFRIC)—The center of information
resources for Air Force PME, MSFRIC has librarians who serve as liaisons to the AU schools
and research organizations, providing organized access to print and electronic sources, and
developing collections to support identified research topics. MSFRIC maintains hard copies of
AU research and offers electronic access to research material.
Security and Policy Review (SPR)—The process of security and policy review supports an on-
going effort to inform and increase public understanding of the mission, operations, and
programs of the Air Force. The program ensures that material proposed for public release is
accurate, does not contain classified material, and does not conflict with established Air Force,
DOD, or U.S. Government policies. The objective at all levels must be the maximum clearance
of information in minimum time. In support of this objective, Air Force policy provides for
clearance by the Public Affairs officer (PAO) at the lowest level where competent authority
exists to judge the security and policy aspects of the information submitted for review..
Spaatz Center—The Spaatz Center is the Air Force's unifying organization for officer
professional military education of its officers. It performs the coordination needed to ensure that
the resources and lessons learned are shared across the schools. Furthermore the center provides
daily support and planning support to the Air War College, Air Command and Staff College,
International Officer School, Spaatz Academic Centers, and Education Support Squadron.
 18                                                            AUI36-2321 27 OCTOBER 2011


Spaatz Academic Centers—The academic centers located within the Spaatz Center provide a
focused capability that meets both the requirements of Air University and an external sponsoring
agency. Centers create professional military and continuing education curriculum and focused
research on a subject of particular educational importance. Centers enhance the prestige of AU
through their research and outreach programs within the larger military and academic
communities. Currently, the following centers support this mission: Air Force Culture and
Language Center (to include the Air Force Negotiation Center of Excellence), Air Force
Counterproliferation Center, Air Force Public Affairs Center of Excellence, and the Air Force
Center for Strategy and Technology.
Subject Matter Expert (SME)—SMEs are AU faculty or staff members with expert knowledge
of specific, professional or academic disciplines, fields, and topics/issues of research interest at
AU. Normally, SMEs are available to provide AU personnel with research assistance.
