 BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2318
 AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                           17 NOVEMBER 2004
                                                             (Certified Current, 8 November 2010)

                                                                                       Personnel


                           AIR UNIVERSITY REGISTRAR SERVICES/STUDENT RECORDS

               COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

 ACCESSABILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
                         www.af.mil/e-publishing for downloading or ordering.
 RELEASABILITY:          There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

 OPR: AU/CFR                                  Certified by: HQ UA/CF (Dr. Glenward L. Spivey)
 Supersedes AUI 36-2318, 3 October 2003                                             Pages: 8

 This instruction defines the services provided by the Air University Registrar and establishes
 procedures for using these services. This instruction directs collecting and maintaining
 information subject to the Privacy Act of 1974. Ensure all records created as a result of
 processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123,
 Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
 Schedule (RDS) (available at https://webrims.amc.af.mil). It applies to all Air University (AU)
 schools except Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) and the Community College of the Air
 Force (CCAF).

 SUMMARY OF REVISIONS

 Thischange incorporates interim change (IC) 2004-1 (Attachment 3); changes Central
 Scheduling, Requirements, and Analysis (CFRS) to Student Production, Analysis, and
 Requirements (CFRS) (paragraph 1); and updates guidance on replacing lost diplomas
 (paragraph 2.2.3). A star (Ë) indicates changes since previous edition.

Ë1. General Information. The AU Registrar (AU/CFR), under the guidance of the AU
 Academic Office (AU/CF), establishes procedures governing the operation and services of the
 registrar. The AU Registrar includes three branches: Services/Student Records (CFRR); Officer
 PME Update (CFRO); and Student Production, Analysis, and Requirements (CFRS). This
 instruction focuses on the Services/Student Records Branch. Other responsibilities of this branch
 regarding extension courses are covered in AFI 36-2201, Developing, Managing, and
 Conducting Training.



 2. Responsibilities.
2                                                           AUI 36-2318      17 NOVEMBER 2004

    2.1. AU/CFR, through CFRR (Registrar Services/Student Records Branch):

     2.1.1. Maintains the official academic records necessary for transcripts for AU resident
     schools and nonresident programs. The academic records maintained by the AU Registrar
     comprise a system of records as defined by the Privacy Act of 1974. Privacy Act system
     notice number FO36 AETC M, Air University Academic Records, applies. The designated
     custodian of this record system is the AU Registrar.

     2.1.2. Prepares, authenticates, and dispatches official transcripts for AU students.

     2.1.3. Maintains curriculum descriptions and/or course outline of each resident/nonresident
     course or program as submitted for the Air University Catalog and the Air Force Institute for
     Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Catalog.

     2.1.4. On behalf of US military students completing degrees at Air War College (AWC) and
     Air Command and Staff College (ACSC), provides the appropriate military service with
     official transcripts for update of personnel records in accordance with service policy.
     Beginning in Academic Year (AY) 05 (Class 04AY05), will provide same service for School
     of Advanced Air and Space Studies (SAASS) graduates.

     2.1.5. Serves as focal point for admissions records for students seeking admission to AWC
     and ACSC degree programs.

       2.1.5.1. Notifies students of admission requirements, collects and maintains admissions
       documentation, and provides student admission information to appropriate school.

     2.1.6. Retains and disposes of academic records in accordance with the Privacy Act and
     other Air Force directives.

       2.1.6.1. Maintains student records in hard copy or by electronic means. The physical
       media (paper, diskettes, tapes) are labeled denoting Privacy Act data. Records stored in the
       Education Management System may only be accessed by those with appropriate
       priviledges based on school and function. AU/CFR coordinates with schools to determine
       access for school personnel.

       2.1.6.2. Destroys academic records 30 years after the individual completes or discontinues
       the program in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule, Table 36-
       38, Rule 1. Student records will be destroyed by any method that prevents compromise,
       such as tearing, burning, or shredding so long as the personal data is not recognizable and
       beyond reconstitution.

     2.1.7. Prepares diplomas for each student successfully completing nonresident ACSC,
     Squadron Officer School (SOS), Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA), NCO Academies, Airman
     Leadership Schools, and other specified courses in accordance with AUI 36-2310, Air
     University Diplomas and Certificates of Course Completion.
AUI 36-2318      17 NOVEMBER 2004                                                               3

   2.1.8. Upon request from graduates, replaces lost or destroyed diplomas for nonresident
   schools.

 2.2. Commanders, Commandants, and Directors of AU Schools:

   2.2.1. Ensure functions of the AU Registrar are not duplicated within their organizations.

   2.2.2. Prepare diplomas in accordance with AUI 36-2310 for graduates of their respective
   resident programs and AWC nonresident programs.

 Ë2.2.3. Upon request from graduates, replace lost or destroyed diplomas for resident schools
  if school policy requires. AU/CFRR confirms PME graduation and authorizes PME school
  to reissue diploma if applicable.

   2.2.4. Notify AU/CFRR of instructors who are awarded resident credit for a course in
   accordance with AUI 36-2304, AU Formal Schools.

   2.2.5. Provide the following graduate information for all AU resident courses to the AU
   Registrar.

    2.2.5.1. (Nondegree granting schools) Submit certified graduate rosters with cover letter,
    signature of certifying official, and total number of graduates within five workdays of
    course completion. Include graduates only.

      2.2.5.1.1. Nondegree granting schools include course and student information in
      accordance with Part I and II of Attachment 1 on graduate rosters. Electronic
      transmission of graduate data files are coordinated between AU/CFR and the individual
      schools.

    2.2.5.2. (Degree granting schools) Electronically submit student enrollments, student
    demographics, courses taken, course credit, grades, and degree/diploma earned at
    designated intervals throughout the academic year. Note: Beginning in AY 05 (Class
    04AY05), SAASS will submit like information.

3. Procedures.

 3.1. Transcript Services:

   3.1.1. AU/CFRR processes all written requests for transcripts in accordance with AFI 33-
   332, Air Force Privacy Act Program. Official transcripts are certified by the AU Registrar.

    3.1.1.1. Graduates of AU schools may request a transcript. Signature of the requestor is
    required. Transcript requests should also include full name, Social Security Number,
    graduation year, school completed, and the address to which the transcript should be
    mailed.
4                                                       AUI 36-2318     17 NOVEMBER 2004

     3.1.1.2. Before releasing academic information to third parties, consider the consequences,
     checks for accuracy, and be certain no laws or directives ban disclosure. The Registrar can
     release a student record to a third party when the subject of record has agreed in writing.

    3.1.2. Ensures the Air University academic official transcript includes applicable student
    identification, school, class/course and year, completion date, degree or diploma awarded,
    areas of study completed, number of academic hours (or semester/quarter hours) of
    instruction and grades if applicable.

    3.1.3. Responds to inquiries and corresponds directly with civilian educational institutions
    regarding credit for graduation from AU schools and courses (resident and nonresident).



                                                   GLENWARD L. SPIVEY, Dr
                                                   Chief Academic Officer
AUI 36-2318    17 NOVEMBER 2004                                              5


                                       Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References:

AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program

AFI 36-2201, Developing, Managing, and Conducting Training

AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule

AUI 36-2304, AU Formal Schools

AUI 36-2310, Air University Diplomas and Certificates of Course Completion

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ACSC – Air Command and Staff College

AFIADL – Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning

AFR – Air For Reserve

ANG – Air National Guard

AU – Air University

AWC – Air War College

AY – Academic Year

DG – Distinguished Graduate

ETCA – Education and Training Course Announcement

SAASS – School of Advanced Air and Space Studies

SNCOA – Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy

SOS – Squadron Officer School
6                                                           AUI 36-2318       17 NOVEMBER 2004


                                           Attachment 2

                             DATA ELEMENT REQUIREMENTS

A2.1. The following data elements are used for the Air University Registrar history files. Each
time files are submitted, they should be provided in the order listed, using a row and column
format as shown in the example. Generate the files using an Excel spreadsheet or as a comma
separated text file from a database. Each person’s record should be on a single row.

A2.2. The Air War College, Air Command and Staff College, and School of Advanced Air and
Space Studies (beginning in AY 05) will use software and data structures provided by the AU
Registrar to transmit their data. These data file structures and interfaces are an integral part of the
data standardization process for AU degree granting institutions. All other schools will use the
following data formats until they are integrated into the system utilizing an interface designed for
their software and data systems.

Example: Put all columns in file if possible, even if left blank.
CourseID, CourseIDTitle, ClassID, etc……,LastName,FirstName, etc.

Part I. Course Information: (Course and student information to be sent as one file)

 Data Element        Data    Data Element Description
     Name            Type
CourseID            Text(25) Education & Training Course Announcement (ETCA) ID
                             number (previously AFCAT #)
                             http://hq2af.keesler.af.mil/etca.htm/
CourseIDTitle       Text(50) Official Course ID Title (ETCA was previously known as AF
                             Catalog)
ClassID             Text(10) Class ID (i.e., School+YY+Class# xxxxYY# AIS001,
                             ACSC001, SNCOA001, PMCS00A, JAG00A)
StartDate           Date(10) Actual Start (first day) Date of Class (i.e., MM/DD/YYYY)
                             (Dates with slashes)
GradDate            Date(10) Actual Graduation Date of Class (i.e., MM/DD/YYYY)


Part II. Student Information:

 Data Element        Data       Data Element Description
      Name           Type
LastName            Text(25)    Last Name
FirstName           Text(25)    First Name
MiddleInitials      Text(25)    Middle Initial or Middle Name if person uses it as primary name
NameSuffix          Text(5)     JR. , II, III, etc
Rank                Text(10)    Military Rank or Civilian Pay Grade , i.e.Capt, SMSgt, GS09, etc
SSAN                Text(9)     Social Security Number or Foreign ID Number for Foreign
                                Nationals
AUI 36-2318     17 NOVEMBER 2004                                                          7


 Data Element      Data    Data Element Description
    Name           Type
DG Status         Text(5) NA for those with no DG Program; Yes/No denotes if DG or not
Component         Text(10) Military Component or Branch of Service (USAF, ANG, AFR,
                           CIV, USN (Navy), USA (Army), FN or IO =Foreign
                           National/International Officer (Equivalent codes can be used
                           from your system, where they depict the same type of
                           information)
MajorCommand      Text(10) Major Command Standard Abbreviations (for USAF
                           Military/Civilian Personnel Only)
Country           Text(25) Name of Country or Common Abbreviation (i.e. US, Nigeria,
                           UK, etc.)
8                                                        AUI 36-2318      17 NOVEMBER 2004


                                         Attachment 3

    INTERIM CHANGE (IC) 2004-1 TO AUI 36-2018, AIR UNIVERSITY REGISTRAR
                      SERVICES/STUDENT RECORDS

17 November 2004

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS

This change incorporates interim change (IC) 2004-1 (Attachment 3); changes Central
Scheduling, Requirements, and Analysis (CFRS) to Student Production, Analysis, and
Requirements (CFRS) (paragraph 1); and updates guidance on replacing lost diplomas
(paragraph 2.2.3). A star (Ë) indicates changes since previous edition.

1. General Information. The AU Registrar (AU/CFR), under the guidance of the AU Academic
Office (AU/CF), establishes procedures governing the operation and services of the registrar.
The AU Registrar includes three branches: Services/Student Records (CFRR); Officer PME
Update (CFRO); and Student Production, Analysis, and Requirements (CFRS). This instruction
focuses on the Services/Student Records Branch. Other responsibilities of this branch regarding
extension courses are covered in AFI 36-2201, Developing, Managing, and Conducting
Training.

2.2.3. Upon request from graduates, replace lost or destroyed diplomas for resident schools if
school policy requires. AU/CFRR confirms PME graduation and authorizes PME school to
reissue diploma if applicable.
