BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2617
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                                  30 JULY 2013

                                                                                      Personnel

                               AIR UNIVERSITY DEGREE GRANTING, ACCREDITATION,
                                       REAFFIRMATION, AND SUBSTANTIVE CHANGE


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY:          There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/CFA                                  Certified by: HQ AU/CF (Dr. Bruce T. Murphy)
Supersedes AUI 36-2317, 5 July 2006                                                Pages: 18

This instruction implements AFI 36-2302, Professional Development (Advanced Academic
Degrees and Professional Continuing Education). It assigns responsibility for actions pertaining
to the Air University (AU) degree-granting, accreditation, reaffirmation, and substantive change
policies/procedures. It applies to all AU centers, schools, colleges and affiliated programs under
the accreditation purview of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on
Colleges (SACSCOC); the North Central Association’s Higher Learning Commission (NCA-
HLC); Process for Accreditation of Joint Education (PAJE); and Accreditation Board for
Engineering and Technology (ABET) (See paragraph 1.2.7). Supplements to this publication are
not authorized. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Changes to this publication must be
submitted to the OPR using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Moderate changes were made to this instruction primarily to update roles and responsibilities for
the multiple accrediting bodies affecting Air University.

1. Purpose and Scope. This instruction provides guidance on conducting activities that support
maintaining accreditation with peer institutions. It applies to all campuses, schools and programs
within Air University’s purview.

   1.1. The term “institution” refers to Air University. Centers, colleges and schools may use
   other terms as appropriate to describe their organizations.

2. Responsibilities. The Academic Affairs Division of the Air University Academic Office
(HQ AU/CF) is responsible for coordinating AU degree-granting and accreditation requests
2                                                                   AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013

outside Air University. All actions involving congressional degree-granting, accreditation,
reaffirmation, and substantive change procedures must be coordinated through HQ AU/CF.

    2.1. HQ AU/CF:

       2.1.1. Only AU/CC or AU/CF (or officially delegated SACSCOC Liaison) can make an
       official request of a regional accrediting body or obligate Air University in any way to a
       regional or university-wide accrediting association.

       2.1.2. Stays abreast of current regional and special accreditation requirements and
       provides guidance and information to AU organizations to ensure the accreditation
       requirements are being met.

       2.1.3. Establishes policies and procedures to assure the success of future reaffirmations.
       Submits substantive change requests to the AU Commander and President, and to the AU
       Board of Visitors. Upon approval of the request, provides SACSCOC with appropriate
       documentation relative to the substantive change.

          2.1.3.1. Follows designated timelines and required sequences of events, developed in
          cooperation with accrediting bodies to gain approval of substantive changes and to
          maintain regional and special accreditation (see paragraphs 4 and 5).

       2.1.4. Maintains coordination and information flow pertinent to the subject of this
       instruction among and between AU/CC, HQ AU Directors (A Staff), AU CF; AU centers
       and schools, and the 42 ABW. AU/CFA will be an advising member on all Center/School
       academic program review boards or meetings.

          2.1.4.1. Assists AU organizations by establishing committees and/or functional teams,
          IAW the Air University Corporate Process, necessary to achieve the university’s
          strategic priorities, goals and objectives.

       2.1.5. Prepares all committee reports and information concerning academic accreditation
       required by US Department of Education (ED), Air Staff, AETC/CC, AU/CC, regional
       accrediting bodies. Advocates for and advises as needed on PAJE, NCA-HLC and
       ABET reaffirmation of accreditations.

          2.1.5.1. Using inputs from AU organizations, prepares documentation to attain
          congressional degree-granting authority, regional accreditation, reaffirmation, and
          substantive change requests for AU and associated schools. Coordinates on all
          accreditation-related correspondence and documents prior to release outside AU.

       2.1.6. Makes formal and informal contact with the US ED and SACSCOC on issues
       pertinent to accreditation. This contact keeps external agencies informed of anticipated
       changes, facilitates submission of documents and correspondence related to accreditation
       and substantive changes, and allows AU to stay abreast of current trends, processes, or
       procedural changes.
AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013                                                                        3

     2.1.7. Makes arrangements (to include funding), for formal visits to Maxwell AFB,
     AL, from agencies such as the National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and
     Integrity (NACIQI), US ED, and SACSCOC. These arrangements include logistical
     support, billeting, transportation and travel arrangements, and coordination with
     HQ AU/CCP and HQ AU/PA (see paragraphs 1.2.8 and 1.2.9). Advocates for
     organizations and advises them as needed for joint, regional, or professional accreditation
     visits.

     2.1.8. Establishes and maintains ties to the civilian education community by maintaining
     membership and actively participating in appropriate professional educational
     organizations. Air University Academic Affairs senior administrators (CF, CFA, CFR,
     CFX, Director MSFRIC, CFAB, CFAC, CFAE, CFAI etc.) attend SACSCOC Annual
     Meetings for this purpose.

     2.1.9. Ensures AU and its centers, colleges and schools do not describe their relationship
     with SACSCOC in any way other than the strictly prescribed statements in SACSCOC
     The Principles of Accreditation: Foundations for Quality Enhancement, Comprehensive
     Standard 3.14. Additionally, see http://www.sacscoc.org for Guidelines on Advertising
     Student Recruitment, and Representation of Accredited Status.

  2.2. AU’s Maxwell, and Test Pilot School Campus Organizations:

     2.2.1. Provide H Q / AU with representation, leadership, and support IAW the policy on
     Air University Corporate Process for academic matters. Examples include, but are not
     limited to, pursuing the goals of congressional degree-granting, accreditation,
     reaffirmation, and substantive change requests. Submit proposed agenda items for
     formal meetings or official visits when requested by HQ AU/CFA.

     2.2.2. Programs granting credit for joint education ensure all requirements are met to
     maintain accreditation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Process of
     Accreditation for a Joint Education (PAJE).

     2.2.3. Support HQ/AU CF to host NACIQI, SACSCOC, ED, PAJE and other committee
     or team members performing official visits or meetings as requested. When selected for
     official visits, brief selected topics as requested.

     2.2.4. Develop center/school instructions as needed that implement AU policy and
     guidance on institutional effectiveness, evaluation programs, faculty qualifications and
     professional development, student support and other academic requirements as needed.
     (Refer to AUI 36-2322, Air University Institutional Effectiveness and Institutional
     Research [will convert to AUI 36-2622]; AUI 36-2312, Air University Assessment
     Programs; and AUI 36-105, Responsibilities for Faculty Development and Enrichment,
     for further detail). Ensure linkage to the Air University strategic plan, mission statement
     (statement of purpose), and HQ AU.

        2.2.4.1. Maintain documentation of routine operating procedures (e.g., meeting
        minutes, assessment reports, strategic planning execution reports, student complaints),
        reflecting sound educational practices standard in the field of higher education and AU
4                                                                 AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013

       Instructions. Establish documentation for additional requirements described in Center
       and School instructions. These artifacts will be used as evidence of compliance with
       the Air Force Inspector General Organizational Readiness Inspections (ORI), Unit
       Compliance Inspections (UCI), and reaffirmations of accreditation with our peer
       institutions.

    2.2.5. May not change the name of the degree or the diploma without gaining approval
    from AU/CC by submitting a request through AU/CF.

    2.2.6. AU’s Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) campus on Wright-Patterson AFB
    ensures North Central Association-Higher Learning Commission (NCA-HLC) and
    Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) requirements for
    accreditation are met.

       2.2.6.1. Must notify HQ AU/CF on issues pertinent to NCA-HLC accreditation and
       will notify HQ AU/CFA of NCA-HLC reaffirmation schedule. AFIT will continue to
       prepare reports and information required for NCA-HLC.          Copies of all
       documentation/correspondence will be provided to HQ AU/CF prior to submission.
       Procedures pertinent to NCA-HLC accreditation will be subject to review by
       AU/CF.

       2.2.6.2. Must ensure i t s schools do not describe their relationship with NCA-HLC
       in any way other than strictly prescribed in HLC Policy Book paragraph 2.4 (b)
       page 50.

       2.2.6.3. Must notify HQ AU/CF of potential substantive changes prior to
       implementation and work with HQ AU/CFA to ensure correct procedures are
       followed in accordance with the Higher Learning Commission Policy Book, Chapter
       3.

       2.2.6.4. Develops instructions that implement AU/CFA policy and guidance on
       institutional effectiveness, evaluation programs, faculty qualifications and professional
       development. (Refer to AUI 36-2322, Air University Institutional Effectiveness and
       Institutional Research [will convert to AUI 36-2622]; AUI 36-2312, Air University
       Assessment Programs; and AUI 36-105, Responsibilities for Faculty Development and
       Enrichment, for further detail). Ensure linkage to the Air University strategic plan,
       mission statement (statement of purpose), and HQ AU.

          2.2.6.4.1. Maintains documentation of routine operating procedures such as
          meeting minutes, assessment reports, strategic planning execution reports, student
          complaints, etc., reflecting good educational practices standard in the field of
          higher education and AU Instructions. Establish documentation for additional
          requirements described in Center and School instructions. These artifacts will be
          used as evidence of compliance with the Air Force Inspector General
          Organizational Readiness Inspections (ORI), Consolidated Unit Inspections
          (CUI), and reaffirmations of accreditation with peer institutions.
AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013                                                                          5

           2.2.6.4.2. Develops and implements institutional effectiveness policies and
           procedures for evaluating and tracking the extent to which AFIT’s student
           learning outcomes, and research goals, and objectives are achieved. All AFIT
           Schools (EN, CE and LS) and support services must use results of evaluations and
           program reviews to improve educational programs; academic, administrative and
           student support services; research, and operations. Impact of data-driven
           improvement activities will be measured, documented and reported to the AFIT
           Vice Chancellor annually. Documents will be maintained by the Vice Chancellor
           or designated office.

               2.2.6.4.2.1. A copy of the annual outcomes report will be sent to AU/HQ
               CFAE, Chief of Institutional Effectiveness no later than 31 December for the
               previous academic year. The template in AUI 36-2312, Attachment 2, will be
               used for this purpose.

        2.2.6.5. Provide H Q / AU with representation, leadership, and support IAW the
        policy on Air University Corporate Process for academic matters. Examples include,
        but are not limited to, pursuing the goals of congressional degree-granting,
        accreditation, reaffirmation, and substantive change requests. Submit proposed
        agenda items for formal meetings and/or official visits when requested by HQ
        AU/CFA

     2.2.7. Protocol (HQ AU/CCP). Conducts protocol related duties in connection with
     NACIQI, SACSCOC, ED, AU BOV and other official visits or meetings hosted by
     AU/CC or AU/CV.

        2.2.7.1. When required, provides HQ AU/CFA costs for activities related to visits
        such as meetings, special luncheons, dinners, memorabilia, etc.

     2.2.8. Public Affairs (HQ AU/PA). Conducts public affairs related duties in
     connection with NACIQI, SACSCOC, ED, AU BOV meetings or visits.

     2.2.9. Staff Judge Advocate (HQ AU/JA). Assists HQ AU/CFA with academic issues
     and procedures related to degree-granting and accreditation.

     2.2.10. Financial Management (HQ AU/FM). Works with HQ AU/CFA to ensure
     sufficient funds are programmed and available for degree-granting, accreditation,
     reaffirmation, annual dues, and substantive change activities, including necessary
     funding for all aspects of the Quality Enhancement Plan and its implementation.

     2.2.11. Plans and Programs (HQ AU/A5/8).

        2.2.11.1. Develops, executes, and oversees the AU strategic planning process to
        provide on-going, institution-wide (AU, AFIT and 42 ABW) evaluation processes that
        1) incorporate a systematic review of institutional mission, goals, and results; 2) result
        in continuing improvement in institutional quality; and 3) demonstrate the institution is
        effectively accomplishing its mission. The process must include, as a minimum, the
        following elements:
6                                                              AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013

       2.2.11.1.1. A clearly defined, comprehensive, and published mission statement
       that is specific to the institution and appropriate for higher education. The mission
       addresses teaching and learning, research, and public service.

       2.2.11.1.2. A vision statement that guides planning and assessment activities and
       efforts.

       2.2.11.1.3. A strategic plan that implements the AU Commander and President’s
       strategic priorities. The priorities are fleshed out through published goals,
       objectives, and measures. Each goal must be assigned to an office of primary
       responsibility (OPR). The objectives must have a target or standard for
       achievement. Measures should provide valuable information that demonstrates the
       degree to which objectives are being met.

    2.2.11.2. Progress must be assessed and reported periodically to the AU/CC, VPAA,
    and other senior leaders. A standardized report format should be used by all OPRs.

    2.2.11.3. Conducts an annual review and revision (as needed) of the AU mission
    statement and strategic plan to ensure that they are current, comprehensive, and
    accurately guide the institution’s operations.

       2.2.11.3.1. Revisions to the mission statement must be approved by the AU BOV.

       2.2.11.3.2. The mission statement must be communicated to the institution’s
       constituencies through publication in AU-10, the Air University Catalog, as a
       minimum.

    2.2.12. The 42d Air Base Wing (ABW). The 42ABW/CC supports the educational
    mission.

    2.2.12.1. Ensures its organizations provide student support programs, services, and
    activities consistent with the university mission that promote student learning and
    enhance faculty, staff and student development. These include but are not limited to
    Child Development Center, Youth Center, Chapel Services, student dormitories and
    housing, dining services, gymnasium, extra-curricular entertainment events and
    services.

    2.2.12.2. Assists in exercising appropriate control over all of the institution’s physical
    resources.

    2.2.12.3. Takes reasonable steps to provide a healthy, safe, and secure environment
    for all members of the campus and wing community.

    2.2.12.4. Develops and implements policies and procedures for evaluating and
    tracking the extent to which service and operational goals and objectives are
    achieved. Subordinate organizations must use data, analysis and assessment of results
    to improve key outcomes. Impact of data-driven improvement activities will be
    measured, documented and maintained by the 42 ABW/CC or designated offices and
AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013                                                                              7

           provided to HQ AU/CFAE Institutional Effectiveness office annually no later than 31
           December. (Refer to AUI 36-2312, paragraph 3.4, and its subparagraphs; Attachment
           2 (revised IC) and Attachment 3, Section H.)

3. Degree-Granting Procedures. Since AU is a Federal entity, authorization to grant degrees
is approved by Congress. Congress has authorized Air University to grant all degrees that it
deems appropriate to its mission. New degrees must be presented to the AU BOV for their
recommendation and then approved by the National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality
and Integrity (NACIQI) and SACSCOC prior to awarding the first degree.

4. Institutional Accreditation. The Commission on Colleges accredits the entire institution, Air
University, and its programs and services, wherever they are located or however they are
delivered. Accreditation, specific to an institution, is based on conditions existing at the time of
the most recent evaluation and is not transferable to other institutions or entities. Air University’s
regional accreditation and subsequent reaffirmations of accreditation included all components of
Air University as they existed at the time of SACSCOC approval and were based on that structure
and composition. Significant changes to the institution or its programs require a Substantive
Change review (see paragraph 5).

5. Reaffirmation.

   5.1. AU was reaffirmed 5 years after its initial membership in 2004. Reaffirmation requires
   full compliance with all of SACSCOC The Principles of Accreditation: Foundations for
   Quality Enhancement Core Requirements and Comprehensive Standards. Acceptable
   practices and standards in higher education are set by our peer institutions in the region and
   evolve over time. Therefore, it is imperative AU faculty and administrators remain engaged
   with peers through professional and collegial associations and share best practices.
   HQ AU/CFA is the lead agent to prepare the university for reaffirmation of accreditation and
   will use the AU Academic Corporate Process to accomplish its work.

       5.1.1. To maintain accreditation, AU will undergo the full reaffirmation process every 10
       years. In intervening 5 year periods an Interim Review is conducted to ensure compliance
       with selected requirements of SACSCOC The Principles of Accreditation: Foundations
       for Quality Enhancement. Though the requirements for the Interim Review are a subset of
       those addressed during the decennial reaffirmation, they are addressed with the same
       thorough and complete evaluation and documentation of compliance.                Regional
       accreditation organizations publish requirements for initial and reaffirmation.

   5.2. Quality Enhancement Plan (QEP). The institution is required to develop and execute an
   acceptable QEP that includes an institutional process for identifying key issues emerging from
   institutional assessment and focuses on learning outcomes and/or the environment supporting
   student learning and accomplishing the mission of the institution. The QEP is executed
   university-wide over a five-year period. Results will be reported to the AU/CC and President,
   VPAA, and senior leaders through a separate annual program review. A comprehensive
   report to SACSCOC occurs during the Interim Review or decennial review at the completion
   of the official execution period.
8                                                                     AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013

6. Substantive Change.        A substantive change occurs when an accredited institution
significantly modifies or expands its scope, changes the nature of its affiliation, its ownership
or governance, or significantly changes its educational programs from those approved at its most
recent reaffirmation of accreditation. It is determined by the programs already included in the
institution’s approved curriculum. Generally, these require substantial additional faculty, new
courses, additional library or other learning resources, new equipment or facilities and may
include a different resource base. Substantive changes require review and approval by
SACSCOC prior to implementation. See Commission policy, Substantive Change for
Accredited Institutions of the Commission on Colleges, outlining the types of substantive
changes, approval and notification requirements, and reporting timelines at
http://www.sacscoc.org/SubstantiveChange.asp.        If unclear as to whether a change is
substantive in nature, school officials should contact HQ AU/CFA for consultation.

    6.1. Organizations planning a substantive change requiring prior approval must propose them
    to the AU/CC and President through the AU Corporate Process. Changes will be first
    presented to the AU Academic Board and then to the Academic Council. If approved, they
    will be presented to the AU Board of Visitors prior to submission to SACSCOC. AU/CF will
    provide written notification of the change to the president of the regional accrediting
    organization six months in advance of the intended implementation of the substantive change.
    AU/CFA submits required documentation on behalf of the university.

    6.2. Prospectus packages are due 15 April for review at the June SACSCOC Board meeting
    and 15 September for the December Board meeting. (Reference Attachment 2 for reporting
    requirements). Reportable changes include but are not limited to:

       6.2.1. Any change in the legal status, form of control, organizational alignment,
       ownership of the institution, mergers, or consolidations. (See attachment 1 for content of
       prospectus).

       6.2.2. Any change in the established mission or objectives of the institution.

       6.2.3. Entering into a collaborative academic arrangement such as a dual degree program
       or a joint degree program with another institution. Initiating programs or courses offered
       through contractual arrangements or consortium with other institutions.

       6.2.4. Initiating an off-campus site, branch campus, or distance learning program. This
       includes sites a student must attend in order to access electronically-delivered instruction.

           6.2.4.1. Establishing an additional location geographically separated from the main
           campus at which the institution offers at least 50% of an educational program.

           6.2.4.2. Relocating an approved off-campus site within the same area.

       6.2.5. The addition of courses or programs of study at a degree or credential level
       different from that which is included in the institution’s current accreditation or
       reaffirmation.

       6.2.6. Changing the length of the program.
AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013                                                                         9

        6.2.6.1. A change from clock hours to credit hours.

        6.2.6.2. A substantial increase in the number of clock or credit hours awarded for
        successful completion of the program.

     6.2.7. The acquisition of any other institution or any program or location of another
     institution.

     6.2.8. The addition of a permanent location at a site at which the institution is conducting
     a teach-out for students of another institution.

     6.2.9. Closing a program, site, branch or the institution.

        6.2.9.1. Notify SACSCOC as soon as the decision is made.

            6.2.9.1.1. Submit a Teach-out Plan at least 3 months in advance for approval.

        6.2.9.2. A Teach-out Plan is a written plan developed by an institution that provides
        for the equitable treatment of students if a program, or an institutional location that
        provides 50% or more of at least one program, ceases to operate before all students
        have completed their program of study. It may include a teach-out agreement between
        institutions if they are accredited by different bodies. Include:

            6.2.9.2.1. Effective date of closure (no new students admitted).

            6.2.9.2.2. How students, faculty and staff were notified of intent to close.

            6.2.9.2.3. How students were counseled on completing studies.

            6.2.9.2.4. Additional costs to students and how students were notified of them (if
            applicable).

            6.2.9.2.5. How faculty and staff were reassigned or employed.

            6.2.9.2.6. Include any teach-out agreement with other institutions.

     6.2.10. Addition of courses that represent a significant departure either in content or
     method of delivery, from those offered when last evaluated.

        6.2.10.1. The addition of any program that leads to a credential, (certificate,
        certification, diploma or degree) if the credential is in an area where the institution
        does not currently have a program of is significantly different from existing programs.
        If the courses for the credential are taken from the approved curriculum, it is not a
        substantive change requiring notification to SACSCOC.

     6.2.11. Changing the instructional delivery methods of a program from face-to-face
     classroom instruction to distance education. If less than 25% of the credit hours that can
     be earned for the program are offered via distance education, it is not considered a
     reportable substantive change. If enough courses are offered that a student may earn
10                                                                  AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013

     between 25 and 49 percent of the program’s credit hours, it is a substantive change.
     Notification must be made to SACSCOC before the program exceeds the 25% threshold.
     If it is a new DL program, changes to fifty percent or more of the curriculum awarding
     credit hours requires a full prospectus and site visit by SACSCOC.

        6.2.11.1. For all degree programs offered through distance or correspondence
        education, the programs embody a coherent course of study that is compatible with the
        institution’s mission and is based upon fields of study appropriate to higher education.

        6.2.11.2. For all courses offered through distance or correspondence education, the
        institution employs sound and acceptable practices for determining the amount and
        level of credit awarded and justifies the use of a unit other than semester credit hours
        by explaining it equivalency.

     6.2.12. If a student may earn 50 percent or more of a program’s credit hours at an off-
     campus site or via distance delivery (for the first such program), the institution must notify
     the Commission and submit a prospectus for approval at least six months in advance for a
     new site and at least three months in advance for distance learning.

        6.2.12.1. Approval of an off-campus site will be for a maximum of five years. A
        sunset date will be included in the approval letter. The sites will be reviewed again at
        the next Fifth Year Interim Review or decennial review, whichever comes first.

        6.2.12.2. If a particular program has been approved to be offered concurrently at three
        off-campus instructional sites, the institution may submit a modified prospectus for the
        fourth and subsequent sites to offer the same program. Include: faculty roster, and a
        description of each of the following: discipline-specific library resources, student
        support services, physical resources, and courses to be offered at the site.

        6.2.12.3. Once an institution has been approved to offer 50% or more of the first
        program’s credits through distance learning, no additional prospectus is required.

        6.2.12.4. For the addition of significantly different, but already approved programs, to
        the list of distance offerings, a letter of notification should be submitted before the
        programs are offered.

        6.2.12.5. The institution must demonstrate that the student who registers in a distance
        learning or correspondence education course or program is the same student who
        participates in and completes the course or program and receives the credit.
        Verification of student identity can be demonstrated by such methods as a secure login
        and pass code, proctored examinations, new other technologies and practices effective
        for verifying student identification.

        6.2.12.6. The institution offering distance or correspondence education must ensure
        that it reports accurate headcount enrollment on its annual Institutional Profile
        submitted to the Commission.
AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013                                                                        11

           6.2.12.7. Institutions must ensure that their distance and correspondence education
           courses and programs comply with the Principles of Accreditation. This applies to all
           educational programs and services, wherever located or however delivered.

   6.3. Due to the number of changes in the Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) and
   its affiliated schools, CCAF will supplement this instruction with a school-level process.

7. Specialized Accreditation. The Air War College (AWC) and the Air Command and Staff
College (ACSC) participate in the Process for Accreditation of Joint Education (PAJE) to
award JPME I and JPME II credit to graduates. Select programs within the AFIT Graduate
School of Engineering and Management are accredited by ABET. All organizations of Air
University are encouraged to seek, obtain, and maintain relevant accreditation opportunities
beyond those provided by SACSCOC which illustrate the strength and quality of our
university program offerings, however, they cannot be duplicative of existing accreditations. All
new accreditation actions must be coordinated through AU/CF prior to submitting a proposal to
the accrediting body.



                                                   DAVID S. FADOK, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                   Commander and President, Air University
12                                                                 AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013




                                        Attachment 1

GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 36-2302_AUSUP, Professional Development            (Advanced    Academic   Degrees    and
Professional Continuing Education), 4 June 2008

The Principles of Accreditation: Foundations for Quality Enhancement, SACSCOC, 2012

Substantive Change for Accredited Institutions of the Commission on Colleges, SACSCOC,
December 2012

AUI 36-105, Responsibilities for Faculty Development and Enrichment, 9 February 2009

AUI 36-2322, Air University Institutional Effectiveness and Institutional Research, 22 October
2003 (will convert to AUI 36-2622)

AUI 23-2312, Air University Assessment Programs, 16 November 2011

Adopted Forms

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AETC—Air Education and Training Command

AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology

AU—Air University

CCAF—Community College of the Air Force

EDED—US Department of Education

NACIQI—National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity

NCA-HLC—North Central Association Higher Learning Commission

OMB—Office of Management and Budget

PAJE—rocess for Accreditation of Joint Education

QEP—Quality Enhancement Plan
AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013                                                   13

SACSCOC—Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, Commission on Colleges
  14                                                                AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013




                                          Attachment 2

               POLICY ON SUBSTANTIVE CHANGE REPORTING MATRIX

   Table A2.1. Policy on Substantive Change Reporting Matrix
Types of Change Procedure          Prior        Time Frame          Prior      Documentation
                                   Notification for Contacting      Approval
                                                SACSCOC             Required
Initiating           1             Yes          12 months           Yes        Application of
coursework or                                                                  Level Change
programs at a
different level than                                                           Due Dates: 15 April
currently approved                                                             or 01 October
Expanding at         1             Yes          6 months            Yes        Prospectus
current degree
level (significant
departure from
current programs)
Initiating a branch 1              Yes          6 months            Yes        Prospectus
campus
Initiating a         NA            NA           NA                  NA         None
certificate program
at short notice at
AF request using
existing approved
courses
Initiating a         1             Yes          Approval            Yes        Modified
certificate program                             required prior to              prospectus
at short notice at                              implementation
AF request, at a
new off-campus
site (for previously
approved program)
Initiating a         1             Yes          Approval            Yes        Modified
certificate program                             required prior to              prospectus
at short notice at                              implementation
AF request, at a
new off-campus
site (that is
significantly
different from
previously
approved
  AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013                                                          15


programs)
Initiating other  NA        NA           NA               NA         None
certificate
programs using
existing approved
courses
Initiating other  1         Yes          6 months         Yes        Prospectus
certificate
programs at a new
off-campus site
(previously
approved program)
Types of Change Procedure   Prior        Time Frame       Prior      Documentation
                            Notification for Contacting   Approval
                                         SACSCOC          Required
Initiating another      1   Yes          6 months         Yes        Prospectus
certificate program
that is a significant
departure from
previously
approved
programs (such as
new AFSC, SEI or
other functional
related programs)
Altering                1   Yes          6 months         Yes        Prospectus
significantly the
educational
mission of the
institution
Initiating joint or     2   Yes          Prior to         No         Copy of signed
dual degree with                         implementation              agreement and
another institution                                                  contact information
(See SACSCOC                                                         for each institution
Collaborative
Academic
Arrangements:
Policy and
Procedures). Joint
programs with
another
SACSCOC
accredited
institution
Joint programs          1   Yes          6 months         Yes        Prospectus
with another
  16                                             AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013


institution not
accredited by
SACSCOC
Dual programs        2    Yes   Prior to         No        Copy of signed
                                implementation             agreement and
                                                           contact information
                                                           for each institution
Initiating off-      1    Yes   6 months         Yes       Prospectus
campus sites
where students can
obtain 50% or
more credit hours
toward program
Initiating off-      2    Yes   Prior to         No        Letter of
campus sites                    implementation             notification
where students can
obtain 25%-49%
credit toward
program
Initiating off-      NA   NA    NA               NA        None
campus sites
where students can
obtain 24% or less
credit hours
toward program
Expanding            2    Yes   Prior to         No        Letter of
program offerings               implementation             notification
at previously
approved off-
campus sites:
Adding programs
that are
significantly
different from
current programs
at the site
Expanding            NA   NA    NA               NA        None
program offerings
at previously
approved off-
campus sites:
Adding programs
that are NOT
significantly
different from
current programs
  AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013                                                                     17


at the site
Altering               1              Yes          6 months         Yes        Prospectus
significantly the
length of a
program
Initiating             1              Yes          6 months         Yes        Prospectus
Distance
Learning.
Offering 50% or
more of a program
for the first time.
(Adding
subsequent
programs requires
advance
notification only
for programs that
are significant
departures from
the originally
approved
programs).
Offering 25%-49%       2              Yes          Prior to         No         Letter of
via Distance                                       implementation              notification
Learning
Offering 24% or        NA             NA           NA               NA         None
less via Distance
Learning
Types of Change        Procedure      Prior        Time Frame       Prior      Documentation
                                      Notification for Contacting   Approval
                                                   SACSCOC          Required
Initiating programs    2              Yes          Prior to         No         Letter of
or courses offered                                 implementation              notification and
through                                                                        copy of signed
contractual                                                                    agreement
agreements or
consortium
Initiating a merger/   See            Yes          6 months         Yes        Prospectus
Consolidation with     SACSCOC
another institution    policy on                                               Due dates: 15 April
                       Mergers,                                                or 01 October
                       Consolidatio
                       n and
                       Change of
                       Ownership
Changing               See            Yes          6 months         Yes        Prospectus
  18                                                               AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013


governance,           SACSCOC
ownership, control    policy on                                               Due dates: 15 April
or legal status of    Mergers,                                                or 01 October
an institution        Consolidatio
                      n and
                      Change of
                      Ownership
Relocating a main     1              Yes          6 months         Yes        Prospectus
or branch campus
Moving an off-        2              Yes          Prior to         No         Letter of
campus                                            implementation              notification with
instructional site                                                            new address and
(serving the same                                                             starting date
geographic area)
Changing from         1              Yes          6 months         Yes        Prospectus
clock hours to
credit hours
Initiating degree     1              Yes          6 months         Yes        Prospectus
completion
programs
Closing a program,    3              Yes          Immediately      Yes        Description of
approved off-site                                 following                   teach-out plan
campus, branch                                    decision to                 included with letter
campus or                                         close                       of notification
institution:
Institution to
teach-out its own
students
Institution closes    3              Yes          Immediately      Yes        Description of
and contracts with                                following                   teach-out plan,
another institution                               decision to                 copy of signed
to teach-out                                      close                       teach-out
students (Teach                                                               agreement detailing
Out Agreement)                                                                terms included with
                                                                              notification
Types of Change       Procedure      Prior        Time Frame       Prior      Documentation
                                     Notification for Contacting   Approval
                                                  SACSCOC          Required
Acquiring any         See            Yes          6 months         Yes        Prospectus
program or site       SACSCOC
from another          policy on
institution           Mergers,
                      Consolidatio
                      n and
                      Change of
                      Ownership
  AUI36-2617 30 JULY 2013                                                19


Adding a              See            Yes   6 months   Yes   Prospectus
permanent location    SACSCOC
at a site where the   policy on
institution is        Mergers,
conducting a          Consolidatio
teach-out for         n and
students from         Change of
another institution   Ownership
that is closing
