Administrative Change to AUI 36-2609, Academic Integrity

The correct publication number is AUI 36-2609, not AUI 36-2309 as stated on the front page.

The reference to AFPD 36-23, Military Education, in Attachment 1 should be changed to AFPD
36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011.

5 December 2012
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2309
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                                2 APRIL 2012

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                                    ACADEMIC INTEGRITY




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AU/CFAC                                                         Certified by: HQ AU/CF
                                                                          (Dr Bruce T. Murphy)
                                                                                        Pages: 7
Supersedes:    AUI 36-2309, 22 August
               2008


This instruction implements AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development. It contains Air University
guidance and directives on academic integrity. It applies to all Air University organizations and
faculty, whether they are permanently assigned or serve in a temporary duty (TDY) or other
temporary capacity. This instruction addresses academic integrity of military and civilian
personnel—faculty, staff, and students—of Air University schools/Centers. Failure to observe
prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this instruction in paragraphs 1.6.4 and 2 by military
personnel is a violation of Articles 92 and/or 134, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ);
violations by civilian personnel may result in adminitrative disciplinary action without regard to
otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of federal laws. Refer
recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision links the discussion of violations of academic integrity to student disenrollment
procedures by referencing AUI 36-2315, Student Disenrollments, in paragraphs 2.1, 2.4, and 2.5.
 2                                                                    AUI36-2609 2 APRIL 2012


1. Terms Explained.
     1.1. Academic Integrity. Uncompromising adherence to a code of ethics, morality, conduct,
     scholarship, and other values related to academic activity.
     NOTE: Although this instruction does not address the concept of academic freedom, the
     following definition is provided to distinguish it from academic integrity.

     1.2. Academic Freedom is defined according to an amended form of the American
     Association of University Professors‟ (AAUP) definition of academic freedom, as follows:

Figure 1.1. Academic Freedom
       Teachers are entitled to full freedom in research and in the publication of the results,
       subject to the adequate performance of their other academic duties, but research for
       pecuniary return must be agreed upon in writing with the appropriate school Dean.

       Teachers are entitled to freedom in the classroom in discussing their subject but
       should be careful not to introduce into their teaching controversial matter that has no
       relation to their subject.


       College and university teachers are citizens, members of a learned profession, and
       officers of an educational institution. When they speak or write as citizens, they
       should be free from institutional censorship or discipline, but their special position
       in the community imposes certain obligations. As scholars and educational officers,
       they should remember that the public may judge their profession and their institution
       by their utterances. Hence they should at all times be accurate, should exercise
       appropriate restraint, should show respect for the opinions of others, and should
       make every effort to indicate that they are not speaking for the institution.

       All laws and standing regulations concerning the conduct of government employees
       (both military and civilian) apply to Air University faculty members as employees
       of the U.S. government.

     1.3. Group Work. AU values collaboration and believes it enhances the learning of all.
     Group work is permitted on assignments, examinations or research efforts not specified as
     individual work.
     1.4. Individual Work. Assignments, examinations, or research efforts, as specified by each
     Air University organization, in which the individuals are expected to do their own work
     without collaboration of others.
     1.5. Intent. Intent is a state of mind. Absent an admission by a student, intent ordinarily
     cannot be proven soley by direct evidence unless the intent is implied by the act; for
     example, a student who takes a crib sheet into a class and uses it to cheat does not have to
     think specifically that it is wrong. Intent may be proven by circumstantial evidence that
     reasonably implies the existence of intent. Intent is an element of both cheating and
AUI36-2609 2 APRIL 2012                                                                               3


   plagiarism. “Intent” is the mental attitude or state of mind a student has when he commits an
   act or fails to act. It is different from “motive,” which is what prompts the student to act or
   fail to act—in other words, why he or she acted or didn‟t act. Thus, a student who cheats or
   plagiarizes may have been motivated by laziness or a desire to get a better grade, rather than
   consciously setting out to commit misconduct or to violate the rules of academic integrity.
   However, as long as he intended to commit the act (using notes in a closed-book exam or
   passing off someone else‟s work as his own, for example), he had the required intent.
   1.6. The following paragraphs describe breaches of academic integrity:
       1.6.1. Plagiarism. The act of appropriating the literary composition of another, parts or
       passages of their writings, or the ideas or language of the same, and intending to pass
       them off as the product of one‟s own mind. An example is copying verbatim without
       quotation marks with the intent to claim that material as one‟s own work is plagiarism, as
       is the intentional use, without credit, of a source‟s sentence structure and style with only
       minor word changes. Intent is established based on consideration of all circumstances
       and evidence presented. The correct method for giving credit to a source in written work
       is to use quotation marks and an accompanying footnote when quoting directly and a
       footnote when paraphrasing. In the case of oral presentations, credit must be given for
       direct or paraphrasing of direct quotes.
           1.6.1.1. Writing in an academic environment differs significantly from traditional
           “staff work.” To quote AFH 33-337, The Tongue and Quill, p. 341:
“In the staff environment, we frequently reuse previously prepared data to save time and avoid
„reinventing the wheel,‟ but we rarely need to cite the source of such data. In the academic
world, however, reusing another‟s work without giving that person credit and deliberately trying
to pass it off as your own, is plagiarism and can get you into a heap of trouble.

“When and where do you document sources? The rule is simple: If the ideas and information
in what you’ve written are not “common knowledge” or do not represent your own work,
you must document where and from whom the “borrowed” ideas and information came.
As a writer, when you quote an authority word for word, paraphrase someone‟s thoughts or use
someone‟s ideas, model, diagram, research results, etc., you need to do so at that point in the
text. . . . Citation, if done properly, fulfills a writer‟s responsibility for maintaining academic
integrity. So, to keep yourself out of a literary (and perhaps legal) jam—give credit where credit
is due and cite those sources!”

           1.6.1.2. While academic guidelines and instructors should make plagiarism rules as
           clear as possible, students also must take responsibility for their work. Students who
           have any questions about citation or crediting a source have an obligation to ask for
           clarification from an instructor or faculty member.
       1.6.2. Cheating. The act of giving or receiving improper assistance such as, but not
       limited to, gaining unauthorized access to faculty materials that have not been released
       for student use; copying answers from another‟s examination; using texts, notes, issue
       materials, or other references not authorized for examinations or other assigned work;
       knowingly permitting another student to copy one‟s writing assignments, speech or
 4                                                                    AUI36-2609 2 APRIL 2012


        briefing materials, or answers from an examination paper; and collaborating with other
        persons on individual assignments except as specifically authorized by the school.
        1.6.3. Misrepresentation. The act of making an assertion or omission to intentionally
        deceive or mislead. Misrepresentation may be an oral or written statement that is
        misleading or deceiving and meant to be so, for example, false reporting. A student may
        also commit misrepresentation by omission, such as deliberately withholding material
        information. Students enrolled in a course who previously took the same course (or a
        variant of it, for example, a nonresident version of the same course) and attempt to
        resubmit research papers or other work in fulfillment of a current school assignment,
        while disguising or failing to disclose the resubmission, would be guilty of
        misrepresentation.
        1.6.4. Unprofessional Relationships (Including Fraternization). Failure to observe
        prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this paragraph by military personnel is a
        violation of Articles 92 and/or 134, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ); violations
        by civilian personnel may result in adminitrative disciplinary action without regard to
        otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of federal laws.
        Relationships are deemed unprofessional, whether pursued on or off duty, when they
        detract from the authority of superiors or result in, or reasonably create the appearance of,
        favoritism, misuse of office or position, or the abandonment of organizational goals for
        personal interests. Fraternization is an aggravated form of an unprofessional relationship
        and violates Article 92 and/or Article 134 of the UCMJ and potentially other applicable
        articles. Both AFI 36-2909, Professional and Unprofessional Relationships, and AETCI
        36-2909, Professional and Unprofessional Relationships, provide specific guidance
        related to training and educational situations. They state, “personal relationships between
        . . . students and faculty or staff in training schools or professional military education
        (PME) settings are generally prohibited,” and state that “the integrity and leadership of
        faculty and staff in all formal training and PME settings must not be compromised by
        personal relationships with trainees or students.”
     1.7. Permanent Party. All personnel assigned to any Air University or Air Force Institute of
     Technology (AFIT) organization.
     1.8. Students. The term students, as used in this instruction, includes United States,
     international military, and civilian personnel attending US Air Force schools, as well as
     AFIT civilian institution program students.
2. Responsibilities: Failure to observe prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this by
military personnel is a violation of Articles 92 and/or 134, Uniform Code of Military Justice
(UCMJ); violations by civilian personnel may result in adminitrative disciplinary action without
regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of federal laws.
     2.1. All students and permanent-party personnel must adhere to the highest standards of
     academic integrity.      They are prohibited from engaging in plagiarism, cheating,
     misrepresentation, unprofessional relationships, or any other act constituting a lack of
     academic integrity. Failure on the part of any individual to practice academic integrity
     reflects discredit both on the Air Force and on the individual and is not condoned by Air
     University. All individuals who violate this instruction are subject to adverse administrative
     action including disenrollment and explusion from school, disciplinary action, and discharge
AUI36-2609 2 APRIL 2012                                                                       5


  from the service. U.S. military members may be prosecuted under the UCMJ. Violations by
  civilian employees may result in administrative disciplinary action without regard to
  otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws. Once
  disenrolled from a course/program, students are not allowed to reenroll or attend the
  course/program unless a commandant either states on the disenrollment notice that the
  student may reenroll in a distance learning version of the course or grants the student a
  reprieve, as explained in greater detail in AUI 36-2315, Student Disenrollments.
  2.2. Each Air University school/Center, including AFIT, assures this policy is fully
  understood by students and permanent-party personnel. Air University schools/Centers
  provide courtesy copies of any further implementing directives considered necessary by the
  school/Center commandant or commander to HQ AU/CFA and AU/JA.
  2.3. Each Air University school/Center determines the kinds and quantity of study and
  reference materials students are permitted to use in accomplishing the academic assignments
  and various other requirements of the instructional program. Schools/Centers should
  carefully consider and clearly articulate local policies regarding what constitutes authorized
  and unauthorized student materials. Although this Air University policy relegates the
  determination of authorized and unauthorized materials to the schools, it does emphatically
  state that the use of unauthorized materials by students is a violation of academic integrity.
  2.4. AU students whose violations are not discovered until after program completion are still
  subject to adverse action as set forth in paragraph 2.1. In addition to these actions, the
  student‟s certificate or diploma may be subject to revocation, as set forth in AUI 36-2315,
  Student Disenrollments. All completed revocation actions must be forwarded to and
  recorded by the Air University Registrar (AU/CFR).
  2.5. Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) cadets are held to the same
  academic integrity standards as other Air University students; however, they are not usually
  subject to punishment under the UCMJ. Initially, violations of academic integrity are
  handled under the rules and authority of the host academic institution. After institutional
  actions, the AFROTC unit commander reviews the specifics of the situation. If the unit
  commander determines that a violation of academic integrity standards took place, he or she
  takes appropriate action under AFROTC policy guidance, up to and including elimination of
  non-contract cadets, disenrollment for contract cadets, and UCMJ action for cadets subject to
  the UCMJ.
  2.6. Violations by TDY personnel or members of other U.S. military services are reported to
  the individual‟s commander for appropriate disciplinary or administrative action.
  Documentation supporting the accusation and a request for a copy of the disposition of the
  charge are forwarded with the report to the student‟s commander. Violations by international
  students are reported to AU/IA for appropriate notifications through Air Force and
  international channels.
6                                                                  AUI36-2609 2 APRIL 2012


    2.7. Violations by students enrolled in AU nonresident (distance learning) programs are
    reported by the school/Center commandant/commander to the student‟s commander for
    appropriate disciplinary action. Documentation supporting the accusation and a request for a
    copy of the disposition of the charge are forwarded with the report to the student‟s
    commander.




                                            DAVID S. FADOK, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            Air University Commander and President
AUI36-2609 2 APRIL 2012                                                      7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-23, Military Education, 27 September 1993
AFH 33-337, The Tongue and Quill, 1 August 2004
AFI 36-2909, Professional and Unprofessional Relationships, 1 May 1999
AETCI 36-2909, Professional and Unprofessional Relationships, 2 March 2007
AUI 36-2315, Student Disenrollments, 19 November 2008
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommenation for Change of Publication, 1 April 2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAUP—American Assocation of University Professors
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFROTC—Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps
AU—Air University
PCE—Professional Continuing Education
PME—Professional Military Education
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
