BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-105
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                         9 FEBRUARY 2009
                                                                                   Personnel

                                                               RESPONSIBILITIES FOR
                                                           FACULTYDEVELOPMENT AND
                                                                       ENRICHMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AU/CFA                                                       Certified by: HQ AU/CF
                                                                      (Dr. Bruce T. Murphy)
Supersedes:   AUI36-105, 10 December 2003                                           Pages: 8



This instruction implements AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities.
It outlines the general obligations incumbent on each faculty member of Air University and
establishes university policy regarding faculty development, enrichment, and responsibilities.
Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims. It applies to all Air
University (AU) organizations.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been completely revised and should be reviewed in its entirety. Major
changes include: updating General Information and Faculty Responsibilities; addressing AU
Centers established during reorganization; and updating School and School Commandant
responsibilities.
1. General Information:
   1.1. As stated in the AU Faculty Handbook, faculty members are civilian and military
   personnel at Air University who teach; conduct research and consultation; and perform
   service to the Air Force, Air University, and the professional community. A perennial
2                                                               AUI36-105 9 FEBRUARY 2009


    concern that tends to complicate this simple definition is how best to categorize contractors
    and adjunct personnel who are hired to teach in AU educational programs.
    1.2. Air University embraces a broad definition of a faculty member, as anyone who serves
    in the areas of teaching, research, and service. However, because faculty development
    programs are typically resourced by commanders and commandants of AU educational
    programs, the decision to include or exclude contractors and adjuncts as those faculty
    members who require development becomes more a resource stewardship issue than a
    philosophical or academic one.
       1.2.1. Contractor employees and adjunct faculty members generally would not be
       authorized to participate in professional development programs at government expense.
       It is the responsibility of the contractor, therefore, to provide instructors who have the
       required qualifications and to ensure those individuals maintain adequate qualifications.
       The Air Force and AU are not authorized to use appropriated funds to train contractor
       personnel. An exception would be Air Force-specific training that is required for the
       individuals to perform their duties under the contract. For example, if the contract
       requires work with a computer program that is exclusively used by the Air Force or
       DOD, the Air Force could provide training to contractor personnel on that program. But,
       general training on computer operations would not be authorized at government expense
       for contractor personnel. Thus, commanders and commandants of AU educational
       programs are highly encouraged to formalize local policies that define which members of
       their educational program staffs will and will not be permitted/expected to participate in
       faculty development activities.
       1.2.2. Adjunct faculty members are in much the same position as it relates to
       professional development. Adjunct faculty members are not employees for the purposes
       of funded training entitlements. Therefore, the use of appropriated funds to train adjunct
       faculty generally would not be authorized. The exception regarding AF-specific programs
       might allow for some government-provided training. A school could provide adjunct
       faculty members with information about the school's faculty development program and
       the individual could pursue additional training on their own initiative and at their own
       expense.
    1.3. The 2007 reorganization of Air University consolidated the Air War College (AWC),
    Air Command and Staff College (ACSC), Squadron Officer College (SOC), and School of
    Advanced Air and Space Studies (SAASS) into the Spaatz Center for Officer Education.
    Similarly, the College for Enlisted Professional Military Education, the Air Force First
    Sergeant’s Academy, and the Community College of the Air Force were consolidated into
    the Barnes Center for Enlisted Education. The Air Force Officer Accession and Training
    Schools (AFOATS) has been renamed as the Jeanne M. Holm Center for Officer Accessions
    and Citizen Development (Holm Center). The Eaker College for Professional Development
    (ECPD) has not been reorganized into a Center. Consequently, Air University contains a mix
    of organizational structures to include Centers (for officer, enlisted, and commissioning
    professional education) and schools/colleges (ECPD). This makes it difficult to identify
    Centers and schools/colleges throughout this instruction in a concise fashion. Therefore, for
    purposes of this instruction ONLY, wherever the term “Center” (in italics) is used throughout
    this AUI, it includes the Spaatz Center, the Barnes Center, Holm Center, and ECPD, unless
    otherwise clarified. If the term “Center” is used without italics, it specifically refers to the
AUI36-105 9 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                      3


  Spaatz and/or Barnes Center. Where the terms “schools” or “colleges” are used, it refers to
  all AU schools/colleges regardless of the Center to which they may be associated.
  1.4. AU Philosophy on Faculty Responsibilities.
     1.4.1. Faculty requirements and hiring decisions are based on supporting the educational
     objectives of the academic program. These objectives are found principally in the
     program guidance outlined in the Continuum of Education Strategic Guidance and from
     the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the form of Officer or Enlisted Professional
     Military Education Policies relating to Joint Education.
     1.4.2. The responsibilities of a faculty member are outlined in the AU Faculty Handbook
     to include serving as a course instructor; preparing and delivering lectures to classes;
     participating in panel discussions; escorting and/or introducing visiting lecturers;
     developing and teaching elective courses that are part of the academic program;
     supervising student research; conducting workshops for faculty members; engaging in
     curriculum development using the ISD process; developing instructional materials,
     conducting relevant research and writing for publication or engaging in appropriate
     consulting activities; executing taskings assigned by the department chairperson or course
     director; engaging in academic and professional service; reading, analyzing, and
     critiquing student assignments; monitoring, evaluating grading and providing
     comprehensive feedback on student exercises; attending official functions as required and
     maintaining a close relationship with other academic and military organizations or
     services to remain conversant in their programs; and performing special taskings from
     commandants/commanders and higher headquarters, as required. Because of these
     critical responsibilities, faculty development is imperative for all faculty members.
     1.4.3. As scholars and educational officers and NCOs, AU faculty members have general
     responsibilities to their profession as well as specific responsibilities to the institution
     defined by individual position descriptions. Collectively, these responsibilities involve
     excellence in teaching, the discovery and dissemination of new knowledge, and service to
     the Air University and the nation. Faculty members also are expected to contribute to the
     governance of the university. While the AU Commander is the final authority on
     university governance, the commander relies on the faculty to recommend policies
     regarding teaching, research and service that define AU as an educational institution.
     The commandants and commanders of AU schools/Centers are charged with
     responsibility for the implementation of these policies to accomplish the military mission
     of AU.
  1.5. AU Philosophy on Faculty Development. A highly qualified, professional faculty, with
  exceptional growth potential is the most critical factor in maintaining mission-effective AU
  educational programs. AU encourages its faculty members to reach their full personal and
  professional potential in support of the AU mission. To that end, AU provides guidance and
  resources for faculty development and enrichment through the AU Centers.
  1.6. Individually-focused Professional Development. A faculty member can request a leave
  of absence to complete education or training that would be consistent with the professional
  development goals of an AU school/Center. However, a leave of absence is generally not
  authorized for the sole purpose of the completion of an advanced degree. AFI 36-804,
  Civilian Faculty Pay Plan for Air University and the USAF Academy, discusses the authority
4                                                               AUI36-105 9 FEBRUARY 2009


    for AU/CC to approve a leave of absence for professional development in appropriate cases.
    For more information, consult AFI 36-804, paragraph 13.2. (NOTE: AFI 36-804 will
    convert to AFI 36-116.)
2. Faculty Responsibilities. AU expects both military and civilian faculty to contribute to
mission accomplishment in the areas of teaching, research and publication, and service.
    2.1. Faculty activities in each of these three areas are considered by the AU Chief Academic
    Officer and other AU senior leaders in reviewing faculty promotions.
    2.2. Faculty folders and portfolios should reflect all faculty contributions in each of these
    areas.
    2.3. Teaching. At AU, teaching involves all tasks or activities involved in the preparation
    for, and the conduct, direction, guidance and assessment of, learning in AU academic
    programs. These tasks include, but are not limited to, curriculum development, preparation
    and delivery of lectures, preparation for and conduct of academic discussions, evaluation of
    student performance, individual tutoring and academic counseling.
    2.4. Research and Publication. Research and publication at AU should be appropriate to the
    missions and educational programs of the Centers and their individual schools/colleges.
    Faculty members of AU’s graduate degree-granting colleges and schools are expected to
    conduct individual research and to publish in their professional or academic journals.
    Although highly encouraged, research and publication are not required of faculty members at
    AU colleges and schools that do not award graduate degrees.
       2.4.1. For purposes of this instruction, “research” embraces scholarly inquiry and the
       professional investigation of specialized military topics, issues, and areas which are of
       interest in AU colleges and schools, the US Air Force, the Department of Defense, and
       warfighters worldwide. Faculty research at AU contributes to maintaining the currency
       and relevance of the faculty member’s expertise.
       2.4.2. Scholarly publication is the public dissemination of the results of research and
       analysis, conducted according to the norms of one or more of the academic disciplines,
       via professional papers, journal or periodical articles, opinion-editorial pieces including
       “Blue Darts,” contributions to symposia, book reviews, articles written for course
       anthologies, and other short pieces, and book chapters or books, through peer-review
       processes recognized in the various academic disciplines.
    2.5. Service. Faculty service at AU involves activities in the administration of the university
    and the educational programs of its Centers’ schools and colleges, as well as public
    (community) service activities that bring credit upon Air University. Examples of faculty
    service in administration include service in positions such as flight commander, seminar
    director, course director, or department chair. Faculty service may also include conducting
    and or supporting social, professional, and or service activities of either an AU organization
    or professional organization associated with a faculty member's area of academic expertise or
    professional interest.
       2.5.1. Faculty will share responsibility for the governance of the university through
       service on AU, Center, or school/college committees and panels. This responsibility is
       manifested through active participation in departmental planning-committees; curriculum
AUI36-105 9 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                        5


       development and evaluation panels; school, Center or university committees developing
       suggestions for policy and procedures; and performing such other governance duties as
       may be assigned.
       2.5.2. Faculty must be involved in the strategic planning process. Strategic planning at
       the departmental level is needed to ensure that best use is made of the resources available
       to the unit in the interests of the university as a whole, especially the time and effort of
       the faculty.
       2.5.3. Faculty will serve on Center or school/college committees charged with annual
       review/evaluation of admission policies and provide recommendations to the AU Chief
       Academic Officer.
3. Center Responsibilities. Each AU Center will establish and maintain viable faculty
development and enrichment programs for all faculty members as appropriate.
   3.1. The CF (Academic Affairs) office (or appointed office if CF does not exist) within each
   AU Center is responsible for oversight of the Center's faculty development program.
       3.1.1. If a Center develops a supplement to this instruction, the supplement should
       outline the baseline for the academic and professional qualifications of faculty members
       required in support of its educational programs. These criteria must be specific to the
       subject(s) to be taught. Centers will provide matrices of these requirements to AU/CF by
       October 1 annually.
       3.1.2. The Center will develop specific guidelines for faculty research and publication
       appropriate to its respective missions and educational programs.
4. School Responsibilities. Each school will establish and maintain viable faculty development
and enrichment programs for its faculty members.
   4.1. The CF (Academic Affairs) office (or equivalent) of each AU school is responsible for
   oversight of the school’s faculty development and enrichment programs.
       4.1.1. Criteria/standards for use in faculty development and enrichment decisions,
       guidelines for equitable faculty workloads, and descriptions of how faculty will be
       involved in the development of new courses should be published and communicated to
       all school faculty members.
       4.1.2. For Community College of the Air Force (CCAF), the CCAF Campus Relations
       Policies, Procedures and Guidelines will serve the purpose of a supplement for this
       instruction.
   4.2. AU schools will develop guidance leading to the equitable distribution of faculty
   teaching, research and service responsibilities.
   4.3. AU schools will create mechanisms to track the development and accomplishment of
   individual professional growth programs of their faculty members. Primary responsibility for
   their professional growth and development rests with the individual faculty members.
   4.4. Faculty programs: AU schools will develop and administer internal faculty growth
   programs. There are three primary faculty growth programs: Faculty orientation, faculty
   development via in-service training (IST), and individually-focused professional
   development. Faculty programs will be described in each school’s/college’s Educational
6                                                               AUI36-105 9 FEBRUARY 2009


    Program Review Board (EPRB) presentation (ref: AUI 36-2306, Air University Educational
    Program Review).
       4.4.1. Faculty orientation serves as a pre-service program, properly orienting and
       preparing new faculty as to the respective school’s mission; organization; facilities;
       purpose; expectations; teaching philosophies; curriculum; teaching requirements; and
       teaching, mentoring, and evaluative skills. Faculty orientation will also include an
       overview of the AU mission and organization structure. Faculty members new to the
       Department of the Air Force or the Department of Defense may require additional
       orientation at the supervisor’s discretion. AU requires that its faculty meet defined
       teaching standards. Each school will develop teaching standards and criteria to meet the
       specific needs of its educational program(s). Each faculty orientation program will
       address these standards/criteria and establish processes to ensure that incoming faculty
       meets these standards/criteria. A listing of these standards/criteria will be included in the
       school evaluation plan required by AUI 36-2312, Air University Evaluation Programs.
       4.4.2. Faculty development via in-service training will be comprised of on-going
       comprehensive programs involving subject matter competence and growth as it pertains
       to the current curriculum, techniques relevant to faculty member duties, and or faculty
       enrichment. In-service workshops and seminars will be designed to improve the faculty
       member’s teaching, research, and service effectiveness.
       4.4.3. Individually-focused professional development will be comprised of programs
       tailored by the school and the individual faculty member, designed to meet the
       professional growth needs as faculty members maintain currency in their present areas of
       expertise and/or expand their areas. Individual professional development programs must
       support the AU mission. Schools/colleges should document and track individually-
       focused professional development in faculty portfolios including, but not limited to, such
       things as:
          4.4.3.1. Curriculum vitae.
          4.4.3.2. Teaching evaluations.
          4.4.3.3. Institutional qualification justifications in situations where the faculty
          member does not possess a terminal degree in the discipline in which he/she is
          teaching.
          4.4.3.4. Encouragement and incentives for faculty research and publication of
          articles, blue darts (opinion-editorial-type articles), book chapters, books,
          monographs, curriculum materials and/or other research.
          4.4.3.5. Participation in off-duty education programs leading to professional growth
          and advanced degrees.
          4.4.3.6. Attendance, participation, and or presentation in regional and national
          scholarly and professional meetings related to the work of AU.
          4.4.3.7. Procedures and mechanisms for recognition and reward of outstanding
          teaching competence.
AUI36-105 9 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                       7


5. School Commandant Responsibilities. School Commandants will:
   5.1. Exercise responsibility for faculty development in his/her school, to include the
   following:
      5.1.1. Develop and approve all faculty position descriptions.
      5.1.2. Develop faculty hiring and promotion packages; insure faculty meet the criteria
      required to teach the academic curriculum.
      5.1.3. Locally approve and forward through the appropriate chain of command to
      AU/CC all faculty hiring and promotion packages.
6. AU/CF Responsibilities. AU/CF will:
   6.1. Coordinate faculty development activities across the university.
   6.2. Conduct/facilitate faculty development workshops in the following subject areas:
   Institutional effectiveness, evaluation/assessment techniques, curriculum development, and
   the use of educational technology. These workshops will serve as a means to encourage
   university-wide collaboration and sharing of best practices and techniques.
   6.3. Maintain a listing of individuals responsible for the oversight of the faculty development
   programs at each Center as described in paragraph 3.1.
   6.4. Serve as a repository of school and college supplements to this instruction.
7. Adopted Form: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                            ALLEN G. PECK
                                            Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            Commander, Air University
8                                                          AUI36-105 9 FEBRUARY 2009


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities
AFI 36-804, Civilian Faculty Pay Plan for Air University and the USAF Academy (will convert
to AFI 36-116)
AUI 36-2306, Air University Educational Program Review
AUI 36-2312, Air University Evaluation Programs

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACSC—Air Command and Staff College
AWC—Air War College
CCAF—Commuinty College of the Air Force
DOD—Department of Defense
EPRB—Educational Program Review Board
ISD—Instructional System Development
IST—In-Service Training
SAASS—School of Advanced Air and Space Studies
SOC—Squadron Officer College

Terms
Barnes Center for Enlisted Education—an organization encompasing the College for Enlisted
Professional Military Education, Air Force First Sergeant’s Academy, and Community College
of the Air Force.
Jeanne M. Holm Center for Officer Accessions and Citizen Development—an organization
encompasing the Officer Training School, Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps, and Air
Force Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps.
Spaatz Center for Officer Education—an organization encompasing the Air War College, Air
Command and Staff College, Squadron Officer College, and School of Advanced Air and Space
Studies.
