BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2323
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                                 29 JULY 2010

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                    AIR UNIVERSITY MASTER’S DEGREE
                                                                        ADMISSIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR:          HQ AU/CFR                                                Certified by: HQ AU/CF
Supersedes:   AUI 36-2323                                               (Dr. Bruce T. Murphy)
              13 August 2009                                                          Pages: 10


This instruction implements AFPD 36-23, Military Education. It establishes Air University (AU)
policy on admissions for Air War College (AWC) and Air Command and Staff College (ACSC)
in-resident master’s degree programs, ACSC online master’s (OLMP) degree program, School of
Advanced Air and Space Studies (SAASS) and the USAF Test Pilot School (USAFTPS)
master’s degree programs. This policy is also addressed in the Air University Catalog. Refer
recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims. This instruction applies to all eligible US and
international students applying for admission to degree programs at Air University colleges and
schools.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This rewrite: Prescribes the due dates for AU admissions requirements. It specifically addresses
the due dates pertaining to International Officers: academic documents, Test of English as a
Foreign Language (TOEFL), portfolio options and TOEFL appeals. The due dates changed in
order better to coincide with each school’s class start date and determine the student’s degree
status. The changes also reflect the admission requirements for the different ACSC OLMP
concentrations.
 2                                                                    AUI36-2323 29 JULY 2010



1. Master’s Degree Admission Requirements for AU Resident Programs.
     1.1. Admission to the AU master’s degree resident programs requires an individual (1) be
     selected to attend in residence, (2) either hold a qualifying undergraduate degree (US
     bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution or its equivalent) or meet
     admission requirements through the portfolio admission process, and (3) meet English
     proficiency requirements, as applicable. Provisional admission is not allowed for students
     attending AU resident programs.
2. Master’s Degree Admission Requirements for the AWC and ACSC Resident Program.
     2.1. Transcripts and Academic Records.
        2.1.1. US students. AU/CFR verifies previous degrees for Air Force active duty, Guard,
        and Reserve officers through Air Force personnel records maintained at the Air Force
        Institute of Technology (AFIT) without action on the part of AF officers.
        2.1.2. Sister-service officers and civilian applicants must request official transcripts from
        undergraduate institutions be mailed to AU/CFR NLT 31 August of the academic year
        for which they are selected to attend. Students are responsible for payment of transcript
        request from their undergraduate institutions.
        2.1.3. Individuals selected to attend the AWC or ACSC resident program, but not
        admitted to the master’s degree program, will receive a diploma upon completion from
        the college, but will not be awarded a master’s degree.
     2.2. International Officers. AWC or ACSC resident students pursuing a master’s degree
     must submit the Intent to Apply letter, transcripts or academic records, and proof of English
     language proficiency to the AU Registrar (AU/CFR) to determine potential for successful
     completion of an AU master’s degree program.
        2.2.1. Intent to Apply. International students must sign the intent to apply letter during
        the applicable IOS Preparatory Course and submit to AU/CFR NLT 15 Jul of the year in
        which the student is selected to attend.
        2.2.2. Transcript(s) or academic records for international students. International students
        must possess undergraduate or graduate degree qualifications equivalent to those required
        of US students. Records from academic institutions outside the US must be evaluated by
        an independent foreign credentials evaluation service to ascertain equivalency to US
        degrees. The credentialing agency must be a member of the National Association of
        Credentials Evaluation Services (NACES) or the Association of International Credential
        Evaluators (AICE). AU/CFR will assist international students with obtaining academic
        credential evaluation; students must submit transcripts and/or academic records to
        AU/CFR NLT 15 August of the year in which the applicant is participating. Students are
        responsible for payment of academic credential evaluation services.
        2.2.3. Proof of English Language Proficiency. Individuals whose native language is not
        English must achieve an acceptable score on the Test of English as a Foreign Language
        (TOEFL) to be admitted to the master’s degree program. In order to facilitate registration
        processing in a timely manner, applicants must take the TOEFL test NLT 1 August of the
AUI36-2323 29 JULY 2010                                                                     3


     year in which the applicant is participating. No TOEFL scores will be accepted from any
     test taken after 1 August. Students are responsible for payment of TOEFL testing.
        2.2.3.1. The minimum acceptable score for admission to the AWC and ACSC
        master’s degree programs is 83 on the internet-based TOEFL (iBT), 560 on the paper-
        based TOEFL (pBT), or 220 on the computer-based TOEFL (cBT).
        2.2.3.2. Exceptions to TOEFL Requirement. Students whose native language is
        English are not required to take the TOEFL. Students who have completed a degree
        from a United States accredited institution within the last four (4) years are not
        required to take the TOEFL.
        2.2.3.3. TOEFL Appeals. Students seeking to appeal TOEFL scores must have a US
        bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution or US equivalent bachelor’s
        degree (see paragraph 2.2.2).
            2.2.3.3.1. Students may appeal their admission status based on their TOEFL
            score if the iBT score is within the range of 75-82, pBT score within the range of
            537-559, or cBT score within the range of 203-219. Scores below these ranges
            will not be considered for appeal or waiver.
            2.2.3.3.2. Processing TOEFL Appeal. The student prepares the appeal package
            which includes (1) a request for appeal composed by the student and, (2) a written
            recommendation from each member of their teaching team, including elective
            instructors with whom the student has had academic contact and IOS Preparatory
            Course instructors.
            2.2.3.3.3. Students must submit TOEFL appeals to AU/CFR NLT 12 September
            of the year for which the student is participating. Appeals will not be accepted
            after 12 September.
            2.2.3.3.4. Students may submit appeal request to their respective college Dean or
            directly to AU/CFR which will subsequently be presented to the school
            admissions committee for final decision. AU admission processes are controlled
            by AU/CFR.
     2.2.4. Portfolio Option. The Air War College, Air Command and Staff College and
     School for Advanced Air and Space Studies provide a portfolio option to students who do
     not possess a US bachelor’s or equivalent degree. The portfolio option is only available
     to international students.
        2.2.4.1. Students seeking admission to the AU degree programs using the portfolio
        option must have a minimum acceptable score on the Test of English as a Foreign
        Language (TOEFL), as applicable (see paragraph 2.2.3.1.).
        2.2.4.2. Denial of admission based on portfolio reviews is final and cannot be
        appealed.
        2.2.4.3. Students must submit their portfolio packages to AU/CFR NLT 12
        September of the year in which the applicant is participating. Portfolio packages will
        not be accepted after 12 September.
 4                                                                     AUI36-2323 29 JULY 2010


            2.2.4.4. Portfolio Package. Minimally, the portfolio should contain as much
            information as necessary to demonstrate one’s professional and educational history to
            include the following items.
                2.2.4.4.1. Official result of an independent foreign credentials agency evaluation
                of all completed college, university and professional school coursework, to
                include diplomas and certificates (see paragraph 2.2.2).
                2.2.4.4.2. A current resume which includes detailed description of professional
                work and, if appropriate, any work-relevant evaluations.
                2.2.4.4.3. Two or more letters of recommendation from persons who (1) hold a
                terminal degree, (2) are a past or present supervisor, or (3) can offer a professional
                reference attesting to an individual’s capacity to complete a graduate degree
                program.
                2.2.4.4.4. Program brochures, catalog pages and/or descriptions as necessary to
                support academic accomplishments.
                2.2.4.4.5. Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) score sheet, as
                applicable.
        2.2.5. Degree or diploma status is final. After 1 October, students may not opt out of the
        degree program for diploma status, nor opt out of the diploma program for degree status.
        If it is determined by the college a student must be moved from the degree program to the
        diploma program after 1 October, the college will submit the request to AU/CFR for
        processing.
3. Master’s Degree Admission Requirements for the ACSC Online Master’s Program
(OLMP).
     3.1. Admission is currently limited to Air Force active duty, Guard, Reserve, and board
     selected Air Force civilians. Air Force civilians should contact their local civilian personnel
     office for specific admission requirements and application instructions. Admission may be
     open to Sister Service, international military, and other federal civilian applicants later based
     on AU Registrar and ACSC capability to support additional students.
     3.2. Admission requirements for ACSC OLMP.
        3.2.1. Joint Warfare Concentration. Students must be US Air Force active duty, Guard or
        Reserve 0-4 or 0-4 selects. Air Force civilians in grades GS-12 and above or NSPS Pay
        Band 2 and above may be competitively selected by AFPC/DPIF for admission. All
        applicants must hold a bachelor’s degree (or equivalent) from a US regionally accredited
        institution.
        3.2.2. Leadership Concentration. Students must be US Air Force 0-3s who have
        completed Squadron Officer School (resident or non-resident program), do not have a
        master’s degree, and meet Total Active Federal Commission Service as stated on the
        ACSC OLMP web site. All applicants must hold a bachelor’s degree (or equivalent) from
        a US regionally accredited institution.
     3.3. Admission procedures. Individuals applying for admission to the ACSC OLMP must
     submit an online application through the AU Portal.
AUI36-2323 29 JULY 2010                                                                           5


      3.3.1. Transcript(s) for US students. AU/CFR verifies previous degrees for Air Force
      active duty, Guard, and Reserve officers through Air Force personnel records maintained
      at the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) without action on the part of AF officers.
      Board selected civilian applicants must request official transcripts from undergraduate
      institutions be mailed to AU/CFR. AU/CFR must receive the official transcript NLT the
      last day of the first academic term in which student is selected to attend. Students are
      responsible for payment of transcript request from their undergraduate institutions.
      3.3.2. Provisional Admission for ACSC OLMP.
          3.3.2.1. Students may be placed in provisional admission status for up to one
          academic term pending receipt of the official transcript from a US regionally
          accredited institution. Failure of the student to submit appropriate documents or
          resolve admission issues within the first academic term of admission will result in an
          enrollment hold blocking further course registration. No extensions or waivers of the
          enrollment hold will be granted.
          3.3.2.2. Students submitting bachelor’s degree transcripts to AU/CFR from non-
          regionally accredited institutions will be required to provide the following additional
          documentation to AU/CFR.
              3.3.2.2.1. A current resume which includes detailed description of professional
              work and, if appropriate, any work-relevant evaluations.
              3.3.2.2.2. Two or more letters of recommendation from persons who (1) hold a
              terminal degree, (2) are a past or present supervisor, or (3) can offer a professional
              reference attesting to an individual’s capacity to complete a graduate degree
              program.
              3.3.2.2.3. AU/CFR will present the package to the respective college admissions
              committees IAW para 6.4.3. The committee may allow a student to be admitted
              under provisional status. In this case student will be allowed to take no more than
              two academic courses and must achieve a grade of “B” or higher in each course.
              If student achieves a “B” or higher in each course, student will be placed in fully
              admitted status. If student does not achieve the grades as stated, student will be
              removed from OLMP. No extensions or waivers on admissions will be granted.
   3.4. AU/CFR forwards student admission verification to ACSC/DLO and notifies applicants
   of admission status.
   3.5. In the event of over-subscription to ACSC OLMP courses, ACSC/DL will determine
   which applicants are enrolled based on (1) the needs of the Air Force, (2) the educational
   needs of the individual (does the individual already possess a master’s degree? intermediate
   developmental education [IDE] completed?), and (3) the order in which applications are
   received.
4. Master’s Degree Admission Requirements for School of Advanced Air and Space
Studies (SAASS).
   4.1. SAASS students are chosen by a central selection board at the Air Force Personnel
   Center (AFPC). To apply for consideration, officers must have completed or be in attendance
   at an intermediate developmental education (IDE) program in residence.
 6                                                                   AUI36-2323 29 JULY 2010


        4.1.1. Admission to SAASS is highly competitive. Those seeking admission must
        formally apply while or after attending an IDE program. The application process requires
        applicant to write an essay on a subject selected by the commandant.
        4.1.2. Applicants must either have a master’s degree or bachelor’s degree (or equivalent)
        from a regionally accredited US institution with an overall grade point average of 3.25 or
        higher on a 4.0 point scale. A central selection board convened at AFPC makes final
        admission selections among qualified applicants.
        4.1.3. Transcripts and Academic Records.
            4.1.3.1. US students. Air Force active duty, Guard, and Reserve officer’s degree
            status will be verified by the AU Registrar through Air Force personnel records
            maintained at the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) without action on the part
            of AF officers. Sister-service officers and civilian students must request official
            transcripts from undergraduate institutions be mailed to AU/CFR NLT 1 October of
            the academic year in which the applicant is participating. Students are responsible for
            payment of transcript request from their undergraduate/graduate institutions.
            4.1.3.2. International students. International students must possess undergraduate or
            graduate degree qualifications equivalent to those required of US students. Records
            from academic institutions outside the US must be evaluated by an independent
            foreign credentials evaluation service to ascertain equivalency to US degrees. The
            credentialing agency must be a member of the National Association of Credentials
            Evaluation Services (NACES) or the Association of International Credential
            Evaluators (AICE). AU/CFR will assist international students with obtaining
            academic credential evaluation; students must submit transcripts and/or academic
            records to AU/CFR NLT 1 October of the academic year in which the applicant is
            participating. Students are responsible for payment of academic credential evaluation
            services.
        4.1.4. Proof of English Language Proficiency.
            4.1.4.1. International students must be native English speakers or score in the 95th
            percentile of the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) within four years
            before entering SAASS. Nonnative English speakers must have attended an English-
            speaking resident intermediate developmental education program, preferably Air
            Command and Staff College (ACSC). Those who attended ACSC must also have
            attended the ACSC International Officers School Preparatory Course. Students
            entering SAASS who have not attended ACSC must have attended an English-
            speaking intermediate program in residence but will forego the preparatory course
            due to conflicts with the SAASS course schedule. Students are responsible for
            payment of TOEFL testing.
5. Master’s Degree Admission Requirements for USAF Test Pilot School (USAFTPS).
     5.1. Admission to the USAFTPS is extremely competitive. It is not uncommon for potential
     students to be alternates two or three times before being accepted. There are three tracks for
     which students may apply: Experimental Test Pilot (ETP), Flight Test Engineer (FTE), or
     Flight Test Navigator (FTN)/Flight Test Remotely Piloted Aircraft Operator. Civilian, Navy,
AUI36-2323 29 JULY 2010                                                                        7


   Marine Corps, and Allied Nation personnel are also encouraged to apply for these programs.
   Refer to AFI 99-107, Test Pilot School (PA), for the application process details.
       5.1.1. Transcripts and Academic Records.
           5.1.1.1. US students. Air Force active duty, Guard, and Reserve officer’s degree
           status will be verified by the AU Registrar through Air Force personnel records
           maintained at the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) without action on the part
           of AF officers. Sister-service officers and civilian students must request official
           transcripts from undergraduate institutions be mailed to AU/CFR NLT 14 duty days
           after the class start date. Students are responsible for payment of transcript request
           from their academic institutions.
           5.1.1.2. International students. International students must possess undergraduate or
           graduate degree qualifications equivalent to those required of US students. Records
           from academic institutions outside the US must be evaluated by an independent
           foreign credentials evaluation service to ascertain equivalency to US degrees. The
           credentialing agency must be a member of the National Association of Credentials
           Evaluation Services (NACES) or the Association of International Credential
           Evaluators (AICE) (see paragraph 2.2.2.). Official academic evaluation documents
           will be provided to AU/CFR by the USAFTPS Registrar office. Students are
           responsible for payment of academic credential evaluation services.
       5.1.2. Proof of English Language Proficiency. Proof of English language proficiency for
       international students attending USAFTPS is IAW AFI 99-107.
6. Responsibilities.
   6.1. Chief Academic Officer (AU/CF). The AU Chief Academic Officer (AU/CF) is
   responsible for developing and maintaining Air University graduate school admission policy
   that is common to all AU colleges and schools. The AU/CF briefs changes in the admissions
   policies for Air University to the Air University Board of Visitors (BOV) at the board
   meeting following the implementation of the change.
   6.2. Registrar (AU/CFR). The AU Registrar develops procedural guidance concerning
   graduate school admissions.
       6.2.1. Coordinates due dates for academic credential evaluation and TOEFL scores with
       the Spaatz Center, Air War College, Air Command and Staff College and School for
       Advanced Air and Space Studies as determined by this AUI.
       6.2.2. Briefs AWC and ACSC international students on admission requirements during
       the applicable IOS Preparatory Course.
       6.2.3. Notifies prospective AWC, ACSC and ACSC OLMP sister-service and civilian
       students of the requirement to provide official academic transcripts.
       6.2.4. Verifies previous degrees of AF officers through Air Force personnel records
       maintained by AFIT, Classification and Coding Section.
       6.2.5. Submits student portfolio and TOEFL appeal packages to the applicable
       admissions committees. The AU/CFR is appointed as a non-voting member of any
       admissions related committee.
8                                                                 AUI36-2323 29 JULY 2010


       6.2.6. Retains admissions documentation for each AU degree-granting college/school as
       a historical record of the process for five years.
       6.2.7. Coordinates with each AU graduate college to develop a message concerning AU
       admission procedures for international officer’s NLT 1 October each year for the next
       AY students.
    6.3. College Academic Deans. The academic deans of each AU degree-granting
    college/school develop and execute admission, correspondence, and documentation
    procedures to facilitate communication with students and AU/CFR regarding admission
    concerns.
    6.4. AWC, ACSC, SAASS, USAFTPS Responsibilities.
       6.4.1. Submit final student admission roster to AU/CFR within 30 days of course start
       date. The roster must include rank, last name, first name, MI, suffix, SSN, rank/grade,
       and component.
       6.4.2. Within each college, appoint an admissions committee.
          6.4.2.1. The AWC dean will chair the AWC Admissions Committee. The following
          AWC personnel are appointed to the committee: DE, DA, CF, and DEX. The
          AU/CFR is appointed as a non-voting member of any admissions related committee.
          6.4.2.2. The ACSC dean will chair the ACSC Admissions Committee. The following
          ACSC personnel are appointed to the committee: DE, CF, 21 STUS CC, and DEA.
          The AU/CFR is appointed as a non-voting member of any admissions related
          committee.
          6.4.2.3. The SAASS Commandant and Dean chair the Committee of the Whole
          (Faculty Senate), which rules on admissions requirements. Subcommittees will be
          appointed as required. The AU/CFR is appointed as a non-voting member of any
          admissions related committee.
       6.4.3. College Admissions Committees.
          6.4.3.1. Convene between 15-30 Sep each year. Student degree or diploma status
          must be determined NLT 1 Oct each year.
              6.4.3.1.1. Evaluates academic credentials and potential for successful completion
              of a master’s degree program for students who apply using the portfolio option or
              TOEFL appeal and makes recommendations through the Dean to the
              Commandant. Each applicant will be evaluated on his or her own merit to
              determine if the person’s “preparation” is judged adequate for the rigors of the
              master’s degree program.
              6.4.3.1.2. Admissions committee provide a recommendation for the college dean
              to present to the commandant for final approval and admission to the degree
              program.
              6.4.3.1.3. Notify, in writing, AU/CFR and student of student admission status.
AUI36-2323 29 JULY 2010                                                                    9


         6.4.3.2. Review and evaluate admissions policies for their respective college/school
         on an annual basis and recommend changes as appropriate through the college Dean
         to the Commandant. The Commandant will coordinate changes through AU/CF to the
         AU/CC for concurrence.
7. Adopted Form: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                         ALLEN G. PECK, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                         Commander, Air University
 10                                                             AUI36-2323 29 JULY 2010


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-23, Military Education
AFI 99-107, Test Pilot School (PA)
Air University Catalog

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACSC—Air Command and Staff College
ACSC/DLO—Air Command and Staff College Distance Learning Office
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AICE—Association of International Credential Evaluators
AU—Air University
AU/CC—Commander, Air University
AU/CF—Air University Chief Academic Officer
AU/CFR—Air University Registrar
AWC—Air War College
BOV—Board of Visitors
DL—Distance Learning
ETP—Experimental Test Pilot
FTE—Flight Test Engineer
FTN—Flight Test Navigator
BT—Internet-Based Test of English as a Foreign Language
NACES—National Association of Credentials Evaluation Services
OLMP—Online Master’s Program
BT—Paper-Based Test of English as a Foreign Language
SAASS—School of Advanced Air and Space Studies
TOEFL—Test of English as a Foreign Language
USAFTPS—United States Air Force Test Pilot School
