BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2626
AND PRESIDENT AIR UNIVERSITY
(AETC)                                                                         2 AUGUST 2012

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                    AIR UNIVERSITY SCHOOLS COURSE
                                                          SCHEDULING AND STUDENT
                                                PRODUCTION REPORTING PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/CFRS                                                         Certified by: HQ AU/CF
                                                                         (Dr. Bruce T. Murphy)
Supersedes:   AUI 36-2326, 7 January 2005                                              Pages: 18


This instruction implements AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, and AFI 36-2301,
Professional Developmental Education. It provides instructions for the scheduling, tracking and
reporting of Air University (AU) student production, and documents the AU Registrar‟s role in
the Air Force Education Requirements Board (AFERB) process. Refer recommended changes
and/or corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of command. This
publication directs the collection and maintenance of information covered by AFI 33-332, Air
Force Privacy Program; authority: 10 U.S.C 8013, Secretary of the Air Force. System of
Records Notice F036 AETC M, Air University Academic Records, applies. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
This instruction applies to HQ AU staff, AU schools (Maxwell AFB (including Maxwell AFB,
Gunter Annex) and AFIT), Non-AU schools that own programs supported by the AU Registrar
(such as USAF Test Pilot School and the Air National Guard Academy of Military Science) and
Maxwell AFB and Maxwell AFB, Gunter Annex tenant and visiting agencies that require group
lodging reservations.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised. Instructions for requesting Maxwell-Gunter
group lodging reservations have been removed and placed in a separate instruction. Procedures
 2                                                                AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012


for establishing Developmental Education (DE, formerly Professional Military Education and
Professional Continuing Education) courses, pilot course, seminars and workshops taught by
AU, and procedures for submitting changes or deletions of existing courses have been placed
into separate instruction. Changes resulting from the Air University reorganization and
establishment of Centers have been incorporated. In addition, topics were expanded or
rearranged for better readability and to clarify specific process. Basic procedures for planning,
scheduling and reporting Air University student production have not been significantly changed.
Added requirements for handling personally identifiable information (PII).
1.1. Organization. The Commander and President of Air University (AU/CC) is dual-hatted as
the AETC Director of Education (AU/ED). The Vice President for Academic Affairs (AU/CF)
also serves as AETC/EDE. The AU Registrar (AU/CFR), under the guidance of AU/CF,
establishes procedures governing all registrar activities and operations. This instruction focuses
on the operations of the Registrar Support Branch (AU/CFRS) within the Office of the Registrar.
     1.2. AU Registrar Support Branch Responsibilities. The Air University Registrar Support
     Branch has responsibility for: Course establishment and updates, AU student production
     data collection and reporting (to include support of the Air Force Education Requirements
     Board), and development of the AU Operations and Production Schedule (to include
     Maxwell-Gunter group lodging requirements). Data related to these areas is collected,
     maintained, and stored in the AU Registrar Education Program Management (AUREPM)
     System. The Registrar Support Branch is responsible for maintaining specific support data in
     AUREPM and the assignment of user roles and privileges. AUREPM is the official
     repository for all AU course/class data and student records. For access to this system or for
     data requests, contact the AU Registrar office.
     1.3. AU School Responsibilities. AU schools are responsible for reporting student
     production data to the AU Registrar‟s Office. Schools will assign POCs to update the
     AUREPM database, provide production data not maintained in AUREPM, and submit
     graduate rosters IAW AUI 36-2318, Air University Registrar Services/Student Records.
     Schools will submit annual schedules during the Air University Operations and Planning
     Schedule (AUOPS) annual build, ensure data is updated during execution, and provide data
     for end of year reporting as required.
     2.1. Air University Registrar Education Program Management System
     (AUREPM). The AUREPM system is the official repository of all AU course/class data and
     student records. The system tracks all AU course schedules and provides other registrar
     services such as transcript and diplomas, course listings, etc. For the purpose of this AUI,
     only the “Course Plans and Scheduling” module is discussed. This module includes student
     production reporting, lodging, AFERB, and system support data.
        2.1.1. Access to the AUREPM database, as well as instructions for use of the system can
        be obtained by contacting the Registrar Support Branch via the AU/REPM Organization
        Mailbox: au/repm@maxwell.af.mil.
        2.1.2. A list of applicable codes, definitions and scenarios used in AUREPM for AU
        course scheduling and student production reporting procedures are found in Attachment
        2.
AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                       3


     2.1.3. Specific instructions for completing data input screens and extracting data are
     available from the Registrar Support branch and on-line screen instructions.
  3.1. The Air Force Education Requirements Board (AFERB) Support. AFPD 36-23,
  Military Education, and AFI 36-2301 Developmental Education, define the purpose and
  scope of the AFERB Process. The Air Force Directorate of Force Development (AF/A1D)
  chairs the AFERB and is responsible for establishing policy and guidance for Air Force
  Advanced Academic Degree (AAD) and AETC funded Professional Continuing Education
  (PCE) programs and respective quota allocations. The AFERB process reviews AAD and
  AETC funded PCE opportunities managed by Air University, collects and review quota
  requirements submitted by Air Staff Career Field Managers (CFM) or representative, and
  plans for the allocation of AETC resources for these requirements. Resources for AAD are
  allocated for Air Force Active Duty Officers and a limited number of Active Duty Enlisted
  students by individual quota requests, with resources allocated for both student man-years
  and AETC funding allocations. PCE resources are allocated by course for Air Force Active
  Duty Officers, Enlisted and Air Force Civilians, with resources from AETC funding
  allocations. Both programs are funded by AETC TDY-to-school PEC 84752F.
     3.1.1. AU Registrar Responsibilities. The AU Registrar provides support for AFERB
     process in general by maintaining historical data, providing data analysis, providing a
     means of collecting and storing requirements data, and producing documents to support
     the publication of the annual AAD and PCE Program Requirements Document (PRD)
     and Program Guidance Letter (PGL). Specifically, AU Registrar Support Branch is
     responsible for the following:
         3.1.1.1. Ensure the AUREPM database configuration and data supports the AFERB
         process, to include assignment of user privileges, maintaining POC listing, loading
         PCE courses and AAD programs, and providing system instructions to users.
         3.1.1.2. Assist Air Staff with the AFERB quota requirements data collection process
         and format. As these vary from year to year, current FY specific processes,
         instructions and data collection format are specified in each annual data call.
         3.1.1.3. Maintains status of PCE and AAD quota utilization throughout execution
         year and provides required analysis and historical data to Air Staff, AU staff and field
         agencies as requested.
         3.1.1.4. Provides approved fiscal year AETC-funded PCE and AAD student quota
         documents to AU schools and Financial Management prior to the annual AUOPS
         schedule build data call.
         3.1.1.5. Monitors execution of AAD and PCE quotas, and coordinates any requests
         for changes to the PGL and unfunded requirements through AF CFMs, AU and AFIT
         staff and schools, and AFPC as required. Publishes specific instructions and
         timelines for the AAD fill process, to include reallocation and waiver processes.
         Updates AUREPM with approved changes.
     3.1.2. AU School Responsibilities. Schools are responsible for executing the AAD and
     PCE PGLs within the funding and man-year allocations, as follows: building PCE course
     class schedules, to include programmed, currently scheduled, actual entry and graduate
     data. Class production data (entered and graduated) data is reported in AUREPM and the
4                                                              AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012


    various grading systems and appropriate personnel data system (OTA, etc). For PCE, the
    school POC submits required changes, reallocation between courses, and unfunded
    requirements to the Registrar Support Branch via the AUREPM system. Schools ensure
    AAD quotas are managed per the PGL guidance and current FY reallocation and waiver
    guidance.
    3.1.3. AFPC Assignment Team POC for the current year fill process is responsible for
    matching students to approved AAD quotas, and for submitting requested deviations to
    the AAD PGL to the Registrar Support Branch, following current year processes.
    3.1.4. AFERB AAD and PCE Programs coding. AU Registrar Support is responsible for
    assigning course or program identifiers for AAD and PCE courses.
       3.1.4.1. For clarity of grouping and reporting in support of the AFERB, AU Registrar
       Support Branch further defines AAD programs as “Regular”, “Special Degree” and
       „Special Non-Degree”. Quotas requested against Regular programs are then
       identified if supporting a specific school‟s Faculty development. Quotas requested
       against “Special” quotas are identified by the level of DE received, if any.
           3.1.4.1.1. AAD Regular Programs. These are quotas for master and doctorate
           level programs for which quotas are requested by field and/or CFM in support of
           a validated AAD-coded position on a Unit Manning Document (UMD).
           3.1.4.1.2. Faculty Prep Quotas. These are school quotas requested by AF schools
           for Regular AAD Programs, in support of a validated AAD-coded instructor
           position on a UMD.
           3.1.4.1.3. AAD Special Degree Programs. These are quotas for Master and
           Doctorate level programs for which quotas are requested by field and/or CFM or
           Air Staff to support career field requirements not necessarily identified by a
           UMD, or are in support of officer developmental education or Air Force corporate
           requirements. These programs include the Advanced Studies Group (ASG), and
           specific Intermediate and Senior Developmental Education (IDE/SDE) as
           identified in AFI 36-2301. These programs require approval by the Air Force
           Directorate of Force Development prior to being considered by the AFERB
           process.
           3.1.4.1.4. AAD Special Non-Degree Programs. These are quotas for Programs
           that provide advanced course work for students but do not necessarily require the
           awarding of a degree to meet the stated career field requirement. These programs
           include the Basic Meteorology Program (BMP) offered through Naval Post
           Graduate School, the Education With Industry (EWI) program, and others
           identified in AFI 36-2301.
    3.1.5. The AFERB Data Call General Process. Policy concerning the AFERB AAD and
    PCE quota process can be found in AFI 36-2301. While the PCE and AAD programs are
    distinct and separate processes, actions are accomplished in similar timeliness and
    involve many of the same organizations. The Registrar Support Branch assists Air Staff
    in drafting the instructions for the data calls, and provides specific format for collecting
    the data. Quota requests are worked two fiscal years in advance (i.e., the FY13 process
    begins in Spring-Summer FY11).
AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                     5


        3.1.5.1. During both the AAD and PCE data calls, the first step is for CFMs to
        validate the information maintained in AUREPM, the ETCA and AU Catalog for the
        courses or programs they represent. AU Registrar Support provides a current listing
        of programs and makes updates as necessary to program lengths, titles, priorities, and
        other data used for prioritization and classification of programs.
        3.1.5.2. After course and program data is validated, data calls are sent out to collect
        quota requirements. PCE and AAD quota requirements are collected from the field
        and/or CFM and submitted to the Registrar Support Branch or input directly into
        AUREPM.
        3.1.5.3. Prior to the AFERB Working group, the Registrar Support Branch obtains a
        cost-per-quota for each PCE course, and an estimated dollar allocation for PCE from
        AU/FM. This is input into AUREPM for report calculations.
        3.1.5.4. The Registrar Support Branch calculates projected AAD student man-year
        load for future years to assist Air Staff, AU Financial Management (AU/FM) and AU
        Plans and Programs with determining the number of AAD quotas to start in the
        applicable fiscal year, and obtains any monetary restrictions for that year. This
        calculation is based on the total man-year allocations received from Air Force
        manpower, minus the number of students projected to carry over into the applicable
        fiscal year. This data is input into AUREPM for report calculations.
        3.1.5.5. The Registrar Support Branch and Air Staff review quota submissions in
        preparation for the AFERB meetings. The Registrar Support Branch produces
        documents and analysis as requested. Once funding and man-year resources for the
        fiscal year are known, subsequent data calls may be required for CFMs to further
        review and prioritize requests. The Registrar Support Branch continues to coordinate
        with and provide data to Air Staff, CFMS, and AU staff until the process is complete.
        The AFERB Executive session has final approval authority for annual quota
        allocations.
        3.1.5.6. When AAD and PCE quotas have final approval, the Registrar Support
        Branch produces documents for incorporation into the PRD and PGL documents
        published by Air Staff.
     3.1.6. During execution year, the Registrar Support Branch, AU and AFIT Financial
     Management, monitor execution of the quotas by the schools, CFMs and AFPC
     assignment teams. Deviations to the PGL are submitted IAW paragraphs 3.1.2 and 3.1.3.
        3.1.6.1. AU and AFIT Financial Management ensure the proper funding allocation to
        the respective schools and manage the execution of funds at the AU level. For funded
        PCE courses, the CFM may reallocate the quotas between courses within their
        funding limits. Reallocation must be requested via AUREPM following instructions
        in paragraph 4.5.1.6. AAD reallocations are submitted directly to the AU Registrar
        Support Branch for processing, using current guidance distributed annually.
     3.1.7. More specific instructions for the AAD and PCE AFERB data calls, the execution
     of quotas, and requesting deviations to quotas are found in the annual datacall, PGL, and
     AUREPM screen instructions, as well as sections 5 and 6 of this AUI.
6                                                                AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012


    4.1. The AU Operations and Production Schedule (AUOPS). The AUOPS is a master
    schedule which consolidates Developmental Education, Officer Accessions Training (OAT),
    Technical Training, SAASS, Seminars/Workshops (grouped as “Other Educational
    Activities, or “OEA”), for all AU Schools as well as training, education and special events
    requiring lodging on Maxwell-Gunter AFB. The purpose of the data call is to build the
    upcoming fiscal year overall course/class schedule, and to collect initial requirements for
    Maxwell-Gunter group lodging. The school/unit POCs enter all student quota production and
    lodging requirements in AUREPM in order to effectively manage resources and for
    production reporting purposes. The schedule is not considered final until the annual schedule
    build is completed and approved by AU/DS, as schools may be required to adjust schedules
    for various reasons.
       4.1.1. For official courses, the AUOPS is based on the fiscal year quota requirements
       approved in the appropriate programming document (AFERB PGLs, PME PGLs, Air
       Force Line Officer Accessions Plan, Commissioned Officer Training Seat Allocation
       Conference, etc). Although requests for group lodging for courses and special events held
       on Maxwell-Gunter AFB are collected during the data call, specific instructions for that
       process will not be outlined here. This section applies only to AU schools and units, and
       will address official courses, seminars and workshop reporting only. AFIT graduate
       education, distance learning courses managed by AU/Education Logistics and
       Communications, and other self-paced distance learning courses are not part of this data
       call process.
       4.1.2. In the spring of each year and after all programming documents are received; the
       AU Registrar Support Branch conducts a data call to AU schools. The data call goes out
       in several rounds to meet lodging procedure timelines. Schools are notified which
       courses/event are to respond to each round. Copies of programming documents and
       specific instructions are included. In general, the annual schedule build time line is from
       May-Aug of the preceding FY.
    4.2. AUOPS Schedule Build Preparations. Before sending out the data call, the Registrar
    Support Branch prepares the AUREPM database to accept submissions.
       4.2.1. School/Unit POCs are loaded into the AUREPM POC table, and new POCs are
       assigned system privileges and training as necessary.
       4.2.2. Courses, seminars and workshops are validated and loaded into the current fiscal
       year course table of AUREPM, with all identifying data (schools, length, credits, funding
       source, description, lodging information, etc)
       4.2.3. Course programmed numbers are loaded for all courses listed on published
       programming documents.
    4.3. AUOPS School/Unit Responsibilities. AU Schools will ensure that each course or
    event (or group of courses/events) has a POC assigned for updating the AUREPM database
    or providing production data through other method. The POC will need to obtain access to
    the database and will be responsible for information submitted to the AU Registrar, and final
    close out for production reporting.
       4.3.1. During the appropriate round, schools submit initial class schedules following
       procedures outlined in this AUI and AUREPM instructions.
AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                       7


     4.3.2. During execution, schools ensure AUREPM is updated as changes occur to
     course/event offerings.
     4.3.3. Schools/Units will notify the Registrar Support Branch when the POC changes.
     4.3.4. Schools will submit requests for official course changes (length, title, curriculum,
     ETCA information, etc) to AU Registrar Support. Official course information must be
     accurate in AUREPM, ETCA, the AU Catalog and the appropriate personnel data system
     (such as OTA) to ensure proper student credit, funding, orders preparation and student
     production reporting.
  4.4. AUOPS Initial Build. During the appropriate round, the school POC will access the
  “Course Plans and Scheduling” module of AUREPM and begin building class/event
  schedules. POCs reference the programming documents to ensure total quotas for their
  courses do not exceed allocations, assign class IDs, and input class dates, quotas, lodging
  requests (Maxwell-Gunter only) and other pertinent data. The initial input screen in
  AUREPM is divided into Tabs for ease of input. Data and codes required for each field is
  found in Attachment 2.
     4.4.1. The AUREPM Class Number, or “ID” is made up of the last two digits of the
     fiscal year, then a numerical or alpha sequence number. Alpha sequence numbers may be
     one digit, but numerical should be at least two digits to allow for double digit classes.
     (example: use 1201, 12001 or 12A). Do not use the full fiscal year (2012A), dashes (12-
     A) or spaces (12 A). Ideally, Class IDs will match those loaded into other official
     systems.
     4.4.2. All class IDs must be sequential (i.e., do not skip from 12A to 12D). If a class is
     cancelled, the class retains the original class ID and cannot be reused for a new class.
     Whenever possible, the AUREPM Class ID should match the sequence Class ID in other
     systems.
     4.4.3. For AWC, ACSC and SAASS resident classes, ACSC online masters classes and
     other similar courses, the class ID is as follows: The last two digits of the fiscal year of
     the start date, the letters “AY” for “Academic Year” and then the last two digits of the
     fiscal year of the graduation date. Ex “11AY12” would be the class starting in the
     summer of 2011 and graduating in the summer of 2012.
     4.4.4. Class IDs cannot be changed or deleted by the user. If entered in error contact the
     appropriate Registrar Support Branch analyst.
     4.4.5. For each record submitted into AUREPM, a submission “Status” is input. For the
     initial schedule build the status will be “I=INITIAL Build of Class & Quota data for the
     FY”. Attachment 2 defines all status codes used in the production process.
     4.4.6. Basic class data required for a class includes the method of delivery, funding
     status, start/stop dates, POC name, and special notes.
     4.4.7. POCs will input the number of quotas “Programmed” and “Scheduled” for each
     category of student. For courses that are listed on a programming document, the total
     “Programmed” for all classes must equal the programmed allocation for the overall
     course. If a course is not programmed, then this number is left as “zero”. During the
     initial build, the “Scheduled” and “Programmed” quotas generally match. However, if a
8                                                                 AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012


       deviation is already known it should be reflected in the “Scheduled” column. Once input
       and validated, the class “Programmed” number will not change during execution year.
       Any changes to estimated production throughput, or actual scheduled students will be
       reflected in the “Scheduled” quota column.
       4.4.8. When the class is correct in the system, the POC will place the submission “status
       flag” to “READY” indicating that the submission is ready for review. A Registrar
       Support Branch analyst will review all inputs and notify the POC if any changes are
       required, then process the data into AUREPM. The final processing will normally be
       completed within five duty days.
       4.4.9. Various reports are available for review of current school/unit schedules,
       production data and lodging plans.
    4.5. AUOPS Execution Year Maintenance. After validating the production schedule, the
    Registrar Support Branch analysts continue to maintain the class schedule. At the end of the
    execution year, the accuracy of the production data is validated through coordination with
    field representatives and the schools to create end-of-year reports. To support this, all AU
    schools verify that all updates have been processed. Student production data not maintained
    in AUREPM is provided as needed to the Registrar‟s office via e-mail (i.e., AFIT Graduate
    Education, AFIT Medical Graduate Education, AU distance learning, CCAF degrees granted,
    etc.). The validation of the information should be an ongoing process, updating any changes
    within a reasonable time frame to ensure proper notification of all organizations.
       4.5.1. Data maintained in the AUREPM System, to include PME, PCE, Accessions,
       Technical Training, Workshops/Seminars, and Graduate Education, will be reported as
       follows:
           4.5.1.1. The Status, Status Date, and POC name must be updated each time a change
           is submitted. The POC must ensure his/her name is selected on the drop-down list.
           The Class notes section should be annotated anytime further explanation is required
           to process the submission. Explanations of all codes used when updating
           class/offering data are found in Attachment 2.
           4.5.1.2. Programmed” numbers will not change after the initial schedule build has
           been validated (re: 4.4.7).
           4.5.1.3. “Scheduled” numbers will be reviewed periodically and updated in
           AUREPM within one work day following the known schedule change. These
           numbers are reviewed by several AU offices (Academic Affairs, Financial
           Management, Plans & Programming, etc) to project funding or student load. The
           typical status for changing quotas is “CQ - Change SCHED QUOTAS within a
           course.” The total scheduled number for a class offering should reflect the number
           expected to attend at the time the class starts, as reflected in OTA or signed up for the
           course in some other manner. Upon student arrival, do not change the scheduled
           number to equate to the actual entered number. For AU course classes held at
           Maxwell-Gunter, a change in Scheduled numbers generally means a change in
           lodging as well.
           4.5.1.4. “Entered” numbers will be submitted no later than close of business (COB)
           of the next workday following the start date. This applies to all types of courses
AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                     9


        method of delivery with the exception of self-paced distance learning. For self-paced
        distance learning that does not automatically flow student data into AUREPM, the
        school POC will ensure “Entered” data is updated each month, no later than COB of
        the first business day of the following month. For all inputs, the status for reporting
        entered numbers will be “E-Class Entered”.
           4.5.1.4.1. If there are late arrivals (arrive after the Entered submission has been
           processed) an update must be made to previously reported numbers in the system
           no later than close of business (COB) of the next workday following the student
           arrival. The status of the submission will be "C - Correct previously submitted
           data".
           4.5.1.4.2. If fewer students actually arrive than were “Scheduled”, funded quotas
           may be moved to a future class offering. This change should be reflected in
           AUREPM, using the status of “CQ- Change SCHED QUOTAS within a Course”
           and annotating the move in the class notes section. If the future recipient class
           offering is unknown, the note should reflect this and quotas may be moved at a
           later date. Scheduled quotas in AUREPM should reflect what is currently
           scheduled in the appropriate personnel data system (such as OTA). For
           instructions on how to move quotas between courses, see section 6.1.1.6.
        4.5.1.5. “Graduated” numbers will be submitted no later than COB of the next
        workday following the stop date. This applies to all types of courses method of
        delivery with the exception of self-paced distance learning. For self-paced distance
        learning that does not automatically flow student data into AUREPM, the school POC
        will ensure “Graduate” data is updated each month, no later than COB of the first
        workday of the following month. With the possible exception of Basic Officer
        Training or Commissioned Officer Training classes and self-paced distance learning,
        the number of graduates should never be more than the number that entered. If a
        student leaves prior to course completion, they are not counted in the total graduates
        and are not listed on the Graduate Roster as completing the course. Graduate
        numbers in AUREPM must match Graduate rosters exactly in total numbers as well
        as student component.
        4.5.1.6. Reallocation of Quotas. A “Reallocation” is defined as transferring funded
        quotas from one course to another. This action will result in over executing a
        programming document allocation for one course, and under executing in the other.
        Therefore, this action must be coordinated with the appropriate functional area POC
        or Career Field Manager, and be pre-approved by AU Registrar and Financial
        Management sections prior to executing. This applies to any PCE, PME, or Graduate
        Education course with a published Program Guidance Letter (PGL) on file. For
        Technical Training courses, document the movement of quotas in AUREPM as soon
        as possible after approval coordination is completed IAW AETCI 36-2215, Technical
        and Basic Military Training Administration.
           4.5.1.6.1. To request a Reallocation for class offerings scheduled in AUREPM,
           submit the request via a class change submission no later than 30 calendar days
           prior to the earliest class start date. For the class offering that the quotas are
           moving from, class Status “R=Reallocate Quotas” will be used, and the
10                                                               AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012


                “Scheduled” quotas will be reduced as necessary. A “Class Notes” section will be
                annotated to show the requested move explanation, to include known cost-per-
                quota, new course number and dates, etc. Registrar Support will review the
                submission, ensure POC authorization, and route the request to AU Financial
                Management (FM). AU/FM will review course costs-per-quota, current program
                dollar allocations, unfunded requests, etc. and determine if the request can be
                approved. AU/FM notifies Registrar Support via AUREPM, who either processes
                the submission or notifies the requestor of the denial.
                4.5.1.6.2. If the reallocation is approved, the requestor will create a second
                submission against the course‟s class offering that will receive the quotas. The
                class Status will be “R=Reallocate Quotas”, and the scheduled quotas will be
                increased as necessary. As with other changes, scheduled quotas in AUREPM
                should reflect what is currently scheduled in the appropriate personnel data
                system (such as OTA). Note that, depending on cost-per-quota, quotas
                reallocated to a new course may equate to more or less students that would have
                attended the original course.
            4.5.1.7. Class/Event Date Changes: Class/event date changes must be submitted as
            soon as known but no later than 30 days prior to the class start date. Lodging
            availability for the proposed new time frame should be checked prior to moving the
            class offering. The AUREPM class submission status will be "CD - CHANGE
            existing start/stop DATES". Lodging arrival and departure dates must be updated
            whenever changes are made to class start and end dates.
            4.5.1.8. Class Offering Cancellations. If a class/event is cancelled, the submission
            must be input no later than COB of the next workday following notification of
            cancellation. The submission status will be "CX - Class CANCELLED (previously
            scheduled)". The “Programmed” quotas for the cancelled offering will not change.
            However, the “Scheduled” quotas and any lodging requests (Maxwell-Gunter only)
            must be zeroed out. The original dates and any lodging arrival-departure dates
            should be left in the system.       If quotas from the cancelled class will move to a
            different class, follow instructions for moving scheduled quotas or Reallocations.
     5.1. Production Reporting Procedures for data not in AUREPM. AU and AFIT
     Production Data not scheduled in AUREPM is required to be reported to the AU Registrar
     Support Branch. This includes AFIT Graduate Education and Medical Graduate Education
     entered, graduated and carryover numbers for all students, Test Pilot School degrees awarded
     for the AU Affiliated degree program, total CCAF students enrolled and degrees awarded,
     SROTC, JROTC, AECP and NECP production, AU distance learning entered, graduated and
     enrolled, and any Enlisted PME not updated by the Barnes Center.
        5.1.1. For all programs, AU Registrar Support Branch requests data in pre-determined
        formats for weekly, quarterly, and annual reports, and as needed for ad hoc report
        requests.
        5.1.2. For AFIT graduate education, schedules are not maintained in AUREPM.
        However, student fill actions for AFERB-approved Advanced Academic Degree (AAD)
        quotas are processed through the system. AFIT resident admissions, civilian institutions
        program managers and AFPC assignment team personnel update and monitor fill actions
AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                     11


     until all quotas are filled or turned in. Changes to quotas (turn-ins, adds, changes, or
     “Reallocations”) are processed in AUREPM by the Registrar Support Branch.
         5.1.2.1. For Graduate Education programs, a “Reallocation” is defined as turning in
         one Advanced Academic Degree (AAD) quota that cannot be filled, and requesting a
         different degree and/or degree level. This process is done IAW AFI 36 -2301 and
         current fiscal year fill instructions issued by the AU Registrar Support Branch as this
         process varies from year to year. The basic process is that the AU Registrar Support
         Branch processes approved Reallocations by placing the original quota in “turned in”
         status, and adds a new quota to the database, notifying AFIT, AFPC and Air Staff as
         required.
         5.1.2.2. AU Registrar Support reports current status of AAD quota fills to Air Staff
         periodically throughout execution year, and provides total student production
         numbers and historical data to Air Staff, AU and AETC agencies upon request.
  6.1. Student Production and Analysis. In addition to the AUOPS, the AUREPM System
  provides report capabilities that can be accessed by users. In addition, the AU Registrar
  Support Branch provides input for various weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual student
  production reports. The branch also produces ad hoc reports for AU, AETC and Air Staff
  agencies, and provides trend data and other production analysis as required.
     6.1.1. Within the “Course Plans & Schedule” module of AUREPM, users can extract
     course listings, the AUOPS class/event schedule, a course/class schedule, various AAD
     and PCE AFERB reports to include the AFERB PGLs, PCE Utilization reports, Lodging
     schedules, and the AU Digest production data.
         6.1.1.1. Each menu under the AUREPM “Course Plans & Scheduling” module is
         organized into “Screens” and “Reports”. The “Screens” menus contain a method for
         data input and basic queries, and the “Reports” menus provide pre-formatted reports.
     6.1.2. AU Registrar Support Branch provides production data (programmed, entered,
     graduated, and average daily student load) for all programs for inclusion in the annual
     AU Digest Report, which is published on the AU Home Page. In addition, the branch is
     POC for the Military Manpower and Training Report (MMTR), and provides input for
     various other student production and financial reports.
12                                                                AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012



     7.1. Personally Identifiable Information (PII): Student PII will be protected at all times in
     both written and digital format. E-mails containing PII, FOUO and Privacy Act Information
     sent to other Air Force or DoD offices for official purposes shall be encrypted. Additional
     protection methods, to include password protecting the information in a separate Microsoft
     Office™ document, may be used when encryption is not possible. Do not send the above
     information to distribution lists or group e-mail addresses unless each member has an official
     need to know the personal information. Official email messages will be digitally signed and
     encrypted (MGS). Before forwarding emails you have received that contains personal
     information, verify that your intended recipients aIre authorized to receive the information
     under The Privacy Act.




                                              DAVID S. FADOK, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              Commander & President, Air University
AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                13


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCE AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFI 36-2301, Developmental Education, 16 July 2010
AETCI 36-2215, Technical and Basic Military Training Administration, 9 September 2010
AUI 36-2318, Air University Registrar Services/Student Records, 17 November 2004
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAD—Advanced Academic Degree
ACSC—Air Command and Staff College
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFERB—Air Force Education Requirements Board
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
ASG—Advanced Studies Group
AU—Air University
AUOPS—Air University Operations and Productions Schedule
AUREPM—Air University Registrar Education Program Management System
AWC—Air War College
AY—Academic Year
CFM—Career Field Functional Manager (in reference to the AFERB process)
DS—Director of Staff
ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcement website
FM—Financial Management
FY—Fiscal Year
ID—Identifier
IDE—Intermediate Developmental Education
OAT—Officer Accessions Training
OEA—Other Educational Activities; Non-official educational event, seminar, workshop
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OTA—Oracle Training Application
PEC—Program Element Code
PGL—Program Guidance Letter
PCE—Professional Continuing Education
POC—Point of Contact
PME—Professional Military Education
PRD—Program Requirements Document
SAASS—School of Advanced Air and Space Studies
SDE—Senior Developmental Education
TT—Technical Training
UMD—Unit Manning Document
Terms
 14                                                          AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012


Class—An offering of an officially approved course; also used in AUREPM for offering of OEA
or special event.
Program (Course)—Officially approved education.
Special Event—Non-educational event requiring lodging on Maxwell-Gunter, such as a band
performance, graduation ceremony, air show, etc.
AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                           15


                                           Attachment 2
                                    AUREPM DEFINITIONS

Figure A2.1. Applicable AUREPM Menus
Course Plans & Scheduling: Contains all input and query screens, and report requests in
support of student production reporting.
             Course: Contains input and query screen for course information and the Course
             Master Listing Report
             Class: Contains input, update and query (“review”) screens for class offerings, the
             AUOPS report and other production reports
             Special Events: Contains input, update and query (“review”) screens for special
             events
             AAD: Contains input, update and query for the AFERB Graduate Education process,
             to include quota requirements, utilization, fill actions, and the AFERB AAD PGL and
             other quota reports
             PCE: Contains input, update and query for the AFERB Professional Continuing
             Education process, to include quota requirements, utilization, fill actions, course cost-
             per-quota, and the AFERB PCE PGL and Utilization reports
             Lodging: Contains query and report information for Maxwell-Gunter lodging
             requests, available rooms and individual reservation information
             Baseline: Contains basic AU Digest and MMTR report worksheets
             Support: Contains screens for input of system support data maintained by the AU
             Registrar office
Personnel Info: Contains screens for inputting personnel data, student data, and contains a POC
listing for AUREPM processes.
 16                                                                AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012


Figure A2.2. Codes for AUREPM Course (Program) Data:
Course Category and Category Subtype:
ACAD        Academic (Graduate or Undergraduate Education)
            GED             Graduate Education
            UGED            Undergraduate Education
PCE         Professional Continuing Education
            REG             Regular PCE
            MED             Medical PCE
PME         Professional Military Education
            OPME            Officer PME
            EPME            Enlisted PME
            JPME            Joint PME
OAT         Officer Accessions Training
            AECP            Airman Education Commissioning Program
            NECP            Nurse Education Commissioning Program
            OTS             Officer Training School
            ROTC            Reserve Officer Training Corps
TT          Technical Training
            3-Level
            5-Level
            7-Level
            9-Level
OEA         Other Educational Activities (non-official workshops or seminars)
            SEM             Seminar
            WS              Workshop
            JROTC           Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps
            OTH             Other
SE          Special Event (non-educational in nature, such as graduation ceremony, band performance,
            IG team visit, etc) which is input into AUREPM for lodging request purposes only
AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                             17


Figure A2.3. Codes for AUREPM “Class Scheduling Submission” screen:
BASIC DATA:
Class/Event Status codes: (Used to communicate to the Registrar Support Branch and Financial
Management personnel the intent of the submission).
I            Initial Build (Used during the initial AUOPS build)
A            Add after initial build (Used only for offerings added after the AUOPS build is approved)
C            Correct previously Submitted Data (input incorrectly)
CD           Change Date
CDQ          Change dates and quotas simultaneously
CQ           Change Scheduled quotas
CX           Cancel (Cancel a class that was previously scheduled-not used to delete class entered in
             error)
E            Entered (Actual arrival of students in a class offering or participants in an event)
G            Graduated or completed a class
O            Other change not listed (specify the issue in the class notes field)
R            Reallocation, request to move funded quotas from one course to another
U            Unfunded request. Used for school POC to submit unfunded quota request to AU/FM for
             an AETC funded course
NOT          Used only during initial schedule build to indicate a course that received AFERB funded
TAUGHT       quotas, but will not be taught that FY

Class/Event Location: (Note: Codes are added as needed; The following represents most common
codes)
C            Colorado Springs
FJ           Fort Jackson
G            Gunter
L            Lackland
M            Maxwell
O            Other. Note: For lodging purposes use this code if the event is held in the local area but
             not on base, and lodging is requested on Maxwell-Gunter. This is the location of the class
             or event, not the location of the requested lodging.
K            Kirtland
W            Wright-Patterson (AFIT)

Class/Event Delivery Method: (Note: Delivery Methods are used at the Course Level as well as Class.
Codes are added as needed; The following represents most common codes used at the class level)
RES           Resident. Person physically at host school/unit (TDY/PCS/etc.)
OS            Off Site (Instructor travels to student location)
SAT           Satellite (Broadcast from school house)
VIRTUAL       Virtual school house
WEB           Web Based
IS            Internet Streaming (AFIT/LS)
AFIT OL       AFIT On-line (AFIT/LS)
CORR          Distance Learning via Correspondence
DL: BB        Distance Learning via Blackboard

Funding Status: Either “Yes” if sponsor funded students are scheduled, or “No” if all students are local
or user funded.
 18                                                                   AUI36-2626 2 AUGUST 2012



QUOTAS:
Air Force Funded Quotas: Students whose TDY or PCS is funded by the listed Air Force Sponsoring
agency, and are programmed to be funded on a published PGL.
Local/User Funded Quotas: Students whose TDY or PCE is funded by other than the sponsoring agency
(Local unit or command), or are local at the same base as the school house. The “Programmed” column of
quotas for this section will be populated only if user funded quotas are published on a PGL.

LODGING REQUESTS:
Projected Arrival/Departure Dates: Input dates the majority of participants will arrive/depart
Billet Projected: Input the total number by rank grouping that are expected to require rooms
Class Lodging Notes: Input the POC and any special notes for Maxwell-Gunter lodging

DL Data: N/A

Note: Additional codes and screen instructions are located in the AUREPM database.
