BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2314
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                          15 DECEMBER 2006
                                                                Certified Current on 2 May 2013
                                                                                      Personnel

                                                                            ACADEMIC RANK

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSABILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.af.mil/e-publishing for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/CFAI                                 Certified by: HQ AU/CF (Dr. Bruce T. Murphy)
Supersedes AUI 36-2314, 21 August 2004                                             Pages: 10

This instruction implements AFPD 36-23, Military Education. It establishes procedures for
granting academic rank at Air University (AU). It applies to all AU organizations. It applies to
all faculty members hired under the Air University Faculty Pay Plan (FPP) described in AFI 36-
804, Civilian Faculty Pay Plan for Air University and the USAF Academy, and AU Supplement
1 thereto, and any non-FPP faculty (civilian or military) eligible to hold official academic rank
designation and employed by any AU organizations. Submit an AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication (prescribed by AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manual Program (FMP)) to
the OPR to recommend changes to this publication. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) (available at https://afrims.amc.af.mil).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This rewrite incorporates academic rank criteria and procedures previously contained in both
AUI 36-2314, Academic Rank, (dated 21 August 2004) and Air University Supplement 1 to
AFI 36-804. This AUI updates the procedures for review of academic rank promotion
nomination and submission of faculty information via the E-Portfolio system administered by the
Air University Academic Office.

1. General. The academic rank and associated salary payscale system for Air University
Faculty Pay Plan personnel are authorized by Title 10, United States Code, Section 9314; AFI
36-804, Civilian Faculty Pay Plan for Air University and the USAF Academy; and AFI 36-
804/Air University Supplement 1.

   1.1. Purpose. This instruction provides an academic rank plan to recognize AU faculty
   members whose qualifications are consistent with the criteria described.

   1.2. Responsibilities. Responsibility for academic promotion is vested in the Air University
   Commander. AU schools will establish necessary internal procedures involving faculty,
2                                                        AUI 36-2314      15 DECEMBER 2006

    academic administration, and necessary support directorates to assure that all appropriate and
    required personnel system requirements are observed.

2. Policy.

    2.1. Full-time Air University faculty may hold one of four academic ranks: instructor,
    assistant professor, associate professor, or professor. Each title indicates both academic rank
    and current specialty. Academic titles, in order of rank (highest to lowest) are: Professor,
    Associate Professor, Assistant Professor (name of field), and Instructor in (name of field).
    Academic rank may be granted to civilian personnel who qualify under the provisions of
    AFI 36-804 and AU Supplement 1 and non-FPP faculty (civilian or military) assigned to any
    AU organization and actively engaged in curriculum development and or instruction.
    Minimum criteria for attaining academic rank are in paragraphs 3 and 4. Meeting this
    minimum criteria does not imply automatic appointment to the academic rank. Academic
    rank appointments are recommended by AU school commandants/commanders, reviewed by
    the Chief Academic Officer (AU/CF) and approved by the AU Commander (AU/CC). Air
    University faculty members do not automatically receive rank previously held in other
    educational institutions. At the time of initial appointment of a regular faculty member, the
    college or school recommends the rank to be awarded in the initial appointment using the
    criteria described in paragraph 3 and 4. The promotion of a faculty member shall be
    determined by merit regardless of the distribution of faculty by rank within an organization
    or Air University.

    2.2. AU academic titles supplement but do not replace official duty titles. All related civil
    service procedures remain unaffected by AU academic rank titles including retirement, civil
    service status, and civil service titles.

    2.3. Academic rank is not conferred on the basis of position, but rather on an individual's
    qualifications.

    2.4. Special Appointments (Emeritus, Lecturer, Part-time, and Adjunct Appointments):

       2.4.1. Commanders/Commandants may, with the AU/CF’s coordination and the
       AU/CC’s concurrence, confer an honorary title consisting of the highest academic rank
       held followed by the word emeritus upon retiring civilian faculty members when they
       have given distinguished and outstanding service to AU and the recommending
       organization of affiliation.

       2.4.2. Visiting faculty must fulfill the same general requirements for academic rank as
       permanent personnel. The word visiting precedes their titles. Those on leave from other
       educational institutions receive rank consistent with the home institution; for example, an
       Assistant Professor is titled as Visiting Assistant Professor.

       2.4.3. Schools may designate visiting faculty with exceptional qualifications as
       Distinguished Visiting Professors. Request for this designation is recommended by AU
       school commandant/commander, reviewed by the Chief Academic Officer and approved
       by the AU Commander.
AUI 36-2314     15 DECEMBER 2006                                                                 3

       2.4.4. Part-time faculty members must fulfill the same general requirements for
       academic rank as full-time faculty.

   2.5. Initial appointments are granted in the rank for which the nominee qualifies. Individuals
   normally must serve at least 3 years at an appointed rank before promotion to the next higher
   level.

       2.5.1. EXCEPTION: Individuals may be promoted from Instructor to Assistant
       Professor as soon as they meet the qualifications for the higher rank.

       2.5.2. EXCEPTION: Individuals holding the title of Adjunct Instructor are considered
       to be part-time faculty members and therefore are not eligible to be nominated for further
       academic rank.

   2.6. Academic rank titles previously granted are not withdrawn or changed by this
   instruction.

3. Criteria for Appointment to Specific Academic Rank. This paragraph supplements
paragraphs 3.1, 6, and 7.3 of AFI 36-804 and 3.4.1 of AU Supplement 1 to AFI 36-804. At the
time of initial appointment of a regular faculty member, the college or school recommends the
rank to be awarded in the initial appointment using the criteria described in paragraphs 3.1 - 3.4.
Promotion recognizes the faculty member for meeting the next higher level criteria in the
professional hierarchy. See requirements below [NOTE: In these paragraphs “relevant”
means—in the field specified in the academic title or a closely related field.]

   3.1. Instructor. A relevant master's degree from an accredited institution or equivalent
   experience and professional recognition; interest in and demonstrated or presumptive
   potential for effective teaching, research, consultation, and other scholarly and professional
   activities. [For associate degree programs, the academic rank of instructor is defined as a
   relevant associate's degree from an accredited institution or federal degree granting
   institution or equivalent experience and professional recognition; interest in and
   demonstrated or presumptive potential for effective teaching, research, consultation, and
   other scholarly and professional activities.]

   3.2. Assistant Professor. A relevant earned doctoral degree from an accredited academic
   institution or equivalent experience and professional recognition; demonstrated or
   presumptive potential for effective teaching, research, consultation, and other scholarly and
   professional activities.

   3.3. Associate Professor. A relevant earned doctoral degree from an accredited academic
   institution or an appropriate terminal professional or academic degree; evidence of sustained
   teaching effectiveness; research, scholarly, creative, and professional activities including
   publication in appropriately recognized professional journals (normally refereed archival),
   books, or monographs; discipline-related community service; and normally, no less than 5
   years of significant professional experience, normally including a minimum of 3 years of
   full-time university-level teaching at the rank of Assistant Professor. Time-in-grade or
   academic rank alone do not suffice for promotion to Associate Professor.
4                                                        AUI 36-2314     15 DECEMBER 2006

    3.4. Professor. A relevant earned doctoral degree from an accredited academic institution or
    an appropriate terminal professional or academic degree; evidence of maturity as a scholar;
    an established outstanding reputation in an academic discipline demonstrated through broad
    recognition of research and service accomplishments, including publications in appropriately
    recognized professional (normally refereed archival) journals, books, or monographs; and at
    least 10 full years of applicable professional experience, normally including no less than 10
    years of full-time university-level teaching with a minimum of 3 years at the rank of
    Associate Professor. Time-in-grade or academic rank alone does not suffice for promotion to
    Professor. Promotion to Professor implies national or international recognition and
    significant contributions as a demonstrated leader in carrying out the AU mission.

    3.5. Military Service. If a civilian faculty member is called to active duty in the armed
    forces of the United States, that active duty may be counted year for year as service on the
    civilian faculty for purposes of determining eligibility for promotion. Effective dates of
    promotion in absentia and salary step increases resulting from the promotion are determined
    by submission of appropriate documents after returning to civilian duty.

4. Exception to Criteria of Appointment to Specific Academic Rank. Exceptions to the
requirement for a terminal degree may be made in cases of extraordinary faculty performance in
teaching, service, or scholarship. In order to qualify as an exception, the faculty member’s
accomplishments must be more extensive in quantity and generally more impressive in quality
than those of faculty members with the same length of service and with the terminal degree that
have been promoted. Furthermore, the faculty member’s extraordinary performance must be
recognized regionally, nationally and/or internationally.

5. Performance Assessment Criteria. This paragraph supplements AFI 36-804, paragraph 5.
The three primary criteria used by the university in assessing nominations for promotion are
teaching effectiveness; research, scholarship, and publication; and service. AU uses the same
criteria for promoting faculty that is used for appointments.

    5.1. Teaching Effectiveness. Elements of this criterion include vitality and effectiveness of
    classroom presentation, course and curriculum development, thoroughness of preparation,
    and student learning, and academic advising. Measures used to assess effectiveness include
    supervisor, peer, course, and student evaluations, as well as other sources that identify the
    quality of instruction. The faculty member must show excellence and involvement as a
    teacher and must reflect qualities essential in the faculty at a graduate university level.

    5.2. Research, Scholarship, and Publication. These categories include work outside the
    classroom, such as research, writing, reviewing, and editing books, journal articles, and
    reports, presenting papers and briefings to professional societies and symposia, seminars, and
    lectures. Faculty members are expected to continue their scholarly writing and publication
    while at Air University. Graduate faculty should be active in and or supervision of research
    projects. AUI 36-2321, Research and Publication, codifies general policy governing
    research and publication at AU.

    5.3. Service. This criterion includes service to the college or school, university, Air Force,
    and professional communities. It may take the form of participation in committee work,
AUI 36-2314     15 DECEMBER 2006                                                                 5

   student counseling, academic administration, service in faculty governance, consulting,
   participation in professional organizations, service as a reviewer for archival journal articles
   and of research proposals for national funding agencies, an editor or associate editor of an
   archival journal, leadership in faculty development programs, curriculum and program
   management, temporary assignment to other Air Force organizations, and similar
   undertakings.

6. Nomination Procedures.

   6.1. The commander, commandant, or Director of any AU organization may nominate
   eligible individuals for academic rank and or promotion in academic rank to AU/CF.
   Organizations are responsible for determining internal promotion review processes. These
   should include the possibility of an individual nominating themselves for submission to the
   review process. The primary responsibility of the internal review process is to ensure that
   nominees are held to the requirements consistent with the professional standards and norms
   of their discipline and to the criteria/standards outlined in this instruction. This review
   should be rigorous, equitable, and represent a synthesis of faculty judgment. All
   recommendations are then routed through AU/CF to AU/CC for final approval.

   6.2. Applications should be presented in the general format in Attachment 2. The ordering
   of the formatted items does not imply relative importance.

   6.3. Each recommendation, along with all intervening recommendations and the
   recommendation of the school commander/commandant shall be forwarded to the AU Chief
   Academic Officer unless the individual who initiated the proposal elects to withdraw from
   further consideration. Nomination packages should be submitted to AU/CF. Packages
   should include a letter of nomination for academic rank appointment or promotion and
   information contained in Attachment 2. The letter should contain the following information:

      6.3.1. Name and military or civilian grade of nominee

      6.3.2. Academic title (rank and specialty) recommended

      6.3.3. Present academic title and effective date

      6.3.4. Beginning date of academic duty with AU organization

      6.3.5. Academic resume

      6.3.6. The certifying statement: "(Name) meets the requirements for appointment to the
      academic rank of (recommended rank) in accordance with the provisions of
      AUI 36-2314, (date).”

   6.4. Submit nominations for academic rank appointments at least 60 days in advance of the
   projected presentation date. The effective date of appointment is determined by submission
   and processing of appropriate documents after Air University Commander approval.
6                                                      AUI 36-2314     15 DECEMBER 2006

    6.5. Submit recommendations for emeritus appointments to AU/CF at least 60 days before
    the retirement date with full justification for the appointment.

    6.6. AU/CF prepares letters for AU/CC signature for promotions in academic rank.

    6.7. Faculty members appointed under the authority of Title 10, United States Code (Faculty
    Pay Plan personnel) as described in AFI 36-804 will normally receive an increase of two
    salary steps when he or she is promoted from one academic rank to another. Effective date
    for pay increases for promotion is determined by submission of appropriate documents after
    Air University Commander approval. Promotion in academic rank for civilian faculty
    members appointed under Title 5 authority (Regular GS employees) and military faculty
    members does not impact salary.

    6.8. Notify AU/CFA of any change of position, separation, or retirement, which affects
    records pertaining to academic rank. The administrative office of each organization with
    individuals holding academic rank keeps records of their appointments.

    6.9. If a nomination is not approved; the reasons are communicated to the individual by the
    commander/commandant of the nominated individual.

7. AU Board of Visitors Notification. AU/CF informs the AU Board of Visitors annually of
all promotion actions.

8. Adopted Form: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.



                                                   STEPHEN R. LORENZ
                                                   Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                   Commander, Air University
AUI 36-2314     15 DECEMBER 2006                                                      7


                                        Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

Title 10, United States Code, Section 9314

AFPD 36-23, Military Education

AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manual Program (FMP)

AFI 36-804, Civilian Faculty Pay Plan for Air University and the USAF Academy

AFI 36-804/AUS-1, Civilian Faculty Pay Plan for Air University and the USAF Academy

AUI 36-2321, Research and Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AU – Air University

AU/CC – Air University Commander

AU/CF – Chief Academic Officer

FPP – Faculty Pay Plan
8                                                        AUI 36-2314      15 DECEMBER 2006


                                          Attachment 2

                   PROMOTION REQUEST E-PORTFOLIO FORMAT

The following is a link to access AU’s E-Portfolio:
https://intranet.maxwell.af.mil/academic_affairs/index.htm. Schools/organizations requesting
promotion of their faculty shall utilize the E-Portfolio as the mode for justifying such promotion.
The following is a list of information necessary for respective schools to submit via E-Portfolio;
this is not an exhaustive list, and additional information may be requested via E-Portfolio:

I. Biographical information:

    a. Demographic. Name, current title, office address, and telephone number.

    b. Education.    For graduate and undergraduate work, give institutions, field(s) of
    concentration, dates, degrees, titles of dissertations, honors, fellowships, and scholarships.
    Non-degree study of relevance to academic duties may also be noted.

    c. Professional history. From award of baccalaureate degree to the present time, list position
    titles (academic and other), dates of appointment and promotion, and or granting of academic
    tenure. A statement of responsibilities and accomplishments in each position is appropriate if
    not otherwise obvious.

II. Scholarly activities: NOTE: The items under each category are examples and not meant to
be all-inclusive.

    a. Teaching:

       1. Courses taught. Include terms or times and year as well as course title.              In
       chronological order, list the most recent course taught first.

       2. New courses developed, instructional materials written, and experiments/case studies
       designed. Significance of results may be included as appropriate.

       3. Teaching techniques developed (including information on planning, testing, and
       evaluation; use of graphics or media systems; etc.).

       4. Academic advisor responsibilities and work with students outside the classroom.

       5. Teaching awards.

       6. Summary of student evaluations of instruction. If actual student evaluations are
       provided, the means of selection for those submitted should be described.

       7. Other teaching information.

    b. Research, Scholarship, and Publications.
AUI 36-2314     15 DECEMBER 2006                                                                  9

       1. Research. Provide a chronological summary (beginning with most recent) of research
       projects including brief description of projects, students participating, sponsors,
       significance of results, anticipated directions for research, etc. Include a list of theses,
       dissertations, and supervised student research projects.

       2. Professional practice. Provide a summary of activities in professional organizations,
       including consulting/advisory services performed, magnitude, level and type of work,
       papers presented, significance/impact, recognition (personal or institutional), impact on
       or value to college teaching, etc.

       3. Publications. Provide a chronological list of items (beginning with the most recent)
       including: refereed journal articles/cases, books, chapters in books, non-refereed journal
       papers/cases, refereed conference papers, invited conference papers, presentations,
       technical reports (refereed and non-refereed), book reviews, etc. For each item indicate
       the nature of the review/refereeing process, if appropriate, and include title, co-author(s),
       journal or publication name, volume number, date, and pages, as appropriate.

       4. Awards. List awards or special recognition received for these activities.

   c. Service. Service includes all significant professional service to AU, the organization in
   which the candidate teaches, the community, nation, and professional associations. Indicate
   membership, leadership role, nature of service and contribution.

       1. Academic unit and AU activities:

           (a) Faculty committees and councils; role and dates.

           (b) Administrative service (course or curriculum director, department head, dean,
           etc.) and dates.

       2. External activities (include organization, location, responsibilities, and dates):

           (a) Professional society activities.

           (b) Workshops/conferences/sessions organized (include dates, place, role, etc.).

           (c) Community service.

III. Letters of evaluation: Letters of evaluation may be of particular value in establishing the
academic and professional stature of nominees for senior academic ranks. For each letter
included, briefly describe the relationship of the writer to the nominee (e.g., research or thesis
advisor, co-author, expert in nominee's field, etc.). Letters of evaluation may be solicited by the
nominee or department chair/dean from among:

   1. Experts in nominee's field of research or professional activity who can comment on the
   quality of the nominee's contributions.
10                                                       AUI 36-2314      15 DECEMBER 2006

     2. Research sponsors who can comment on the importance of the nominee's work, how it
     was developed and used within the sponsoring organization, and on the quality of the
     nominee's work in relation to other research performed for the sponsor.

     3. Consulting clients who can comment on the importance of the nominee's professional
     work, its value to and use within the client's organization.

     4. Close professional associates who can comment on the unique role played by the nominee
     in both past and ongoing research, consulting, and service efforts.

     5. Individuals from other universities or organizations who can comment on the nominee's
     contributions to professional societies (as officer, editor, session organizer, program
     chairman, paper reviewer, committee member, etc.).

     6. Individuals from other external sources (such as DoD personnel) who have had firsthand
     experience in observing the professional ability of the nominee with regard to service on
     DoD boards, technical review panels, and other important advisory groups.

IV. Nominee's digest: In this section, the nominee may offer a succinct integrative summary of
past professional activities considered to be most important and to describe career plans with
consideration of potential to AU and the academic unit. This information is intended to extend
material by highlighting patterns of activity and their relationship to the nominee's future plans.

V. Copies of recent books and articles: The nominee may include copies of recent
monographs, books, articles and other material or information that may be helpful in evaluating
the nominee for promotion and to substantiate publication effort since being assigned to AU.

NOTE: The portion of the application prepared and submitted by the nominee is returned at the
completion of the nomination process. The Office of the Chief Academic Officer retains all
other documents.
