BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER AIR                       AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2305
UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                             1 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                        POLICIES ON PRESENTING AND
                                                 RECORDING AIR UNIVERSITY LECTURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/CFA                                              Certified by: HQ AU/CF Dr. Bruce T.
                                                                                       Murphy
Supersedes:    AUI 36-2305, 17 December                                                Pages: 4
               2008


This instruction implements AFPD 36-23, Military Education. It establishes Air University (AU)
policies on presentation, recording, use, release, and archiving of recorded lectures. Refer
recommended changes to this publication, through your chain of command, to the OPR using AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This instruction applies to all AU
schools and organizations, to include the Academy of Military Science Detachment 12 (AFRC);
it does not apply to ANG units.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision extends the policy to cover recording of all lectures given to the student body rather
than limiting it to guest lecturers. It also prohibits recording question and answer sessions and
open discussion forums. AF Form 42 has been modified to apply to all speakers. Additionally,
item 2d, 1-5 has been deleted as well as the option to have question and answer or discussion
sessions recorded.
1. Policy on Recording Lecturers. As an institution of higher learning, Air University supports
and encourages learning in an environment of responsible freedom for the exchange of ideas and
experiences. Specific guidelines to protect free exchange and non-attribution are provided in
AUI 36-2308, Academic Freedom. Permission to record selected sessions and lectures must be
given explicitly by speakers and documented on AU Form 42, Lecturer Agreement and
 2                                                             AUI36-2305 1 DECEMBER 2011


Instructions/Permission to Record. Recordings or copies will only be retained if specific
permission is granted by the presenter, and may be subject to release if formally requested under
the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).
     1.1. Recorded Interviews. Lecturers who speak to the school’s student body en masse should
     be provided the opportunity to have their remarks recorded during a structured interview or
     live with students. Interviews may also be conducted to gather information and opinions of
     lecturers on topics other than their prepared presentations. (See AU Form 42, Lecturer
     Agreement and Instructions/Permission to Record.) AU Form 42 and a copy of this
     instruction should be sent to the speaker prior to the event to ensure he or she understands
     AU policies on recording lectures. Panel discussions that take the form of a structured
     interview may be recorded. Question-and-answer or open discussion periods occurring in
     conjunction with lectures, presentations or interviews will not be recorded.
        1.1.1. School personnel are responsible for making arrangements with AU/TV (or
        AFIT/SCL) to record the interview.
2. Policy, Use, and Release of Recordings.
     2.1. Recordings of presentations retained by Air University are used primarily by faculty and
     students of the AU resident and distance learning programs. In some instances the
     recordings may be used by other Department of Defense organizations.
     2.2. Prior to speaking, lecturers must be briefed by the schools on AU policies about
     academic freedom (AUI 36-2308) and recordings (AUI 36-2305). Lecturers must be
     informed that their recorded remarks may be subject to disclosure regardless of AU policies.
     Lecturers may decline/refuse taping of lectures. Faculty members may sign a letter
     authorizing all their lectures to be recorded for the academic year if they so choose. File the
     letter with the AU Form 42.
        2.2.1. The AU Form 42 will be maintained by HQ AU/CF for the purposes of revision
        and publication. Signed forms will be maintained at the schools/centers where the
        lectures are delivered in accordance with their ERM filing plan.
     2.3. Lecturers who do not agree to abide by the policy precluding the use of profanity and
     irresponsible statements are not allowed to lecture. NOTE: This in no way implies any
     intent to disallow either the presentation of divergent opinions or topics appropriate to a
     school’s mission.
     2.4. Before a contract for payment is signed and/or before recording the presentation of any
     faculty or non-paid guest lecturer, the schools will ensure speakers understand and complete
     AU Form 42.
3. Policy for Retention and Storage of Recordings. Recordings of lectures given at Air
University schools are considered routine control records, reference AFI 33-322, Air Force
Records Management Program. Upon completion of the recording, schools will transfer the
original media to AU/TV (AFIT/SCL) for storage, but may maintain a copy for routine
instructional use. AU/TV and AFIT/SCL, as appropriate, are ultimately responsible to store,
track and retrieve these media. Lectures will not be destroyed by the schools prior to the archival
process described above.
AUI36-2305 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                                     3


4. Official Complaints. The AU Form 42 serves to nullify contracts if the speaker fails to abide
by the AU policies to which they have agreed. Failure to abide by policies may result in
termination of payment for services rendered. Official complaints regarding offensive remarks
or irresponsible statements may be made by any individual who attended a lecture. Complaints
must be made to the commandant of the school where the lecture was given within 72 hours after
the lecture. The commandant investigates the charges and, if justified, initiates a request for a
termination of payment. Termination of payment should be initiated through the Commander,
Contracting Squadron (42 CONS/CC), or AFIT/RPX as appropriate. Appeals to decisions
rendered by the commandants must be made to the Air University Vice Commander (AU/CV)
within 10 duty days after the decision is rendered and parties notified.
5. Responsibilities. Each AU school or organization ensures the policies enumerated in this
instruction are carried out.




                                            DAVID S. FADOK, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            Commander and President
 4                                                          AUI36-2305 1 DECEMBER 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-23, Military Education, 27 September 1993
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 7 October 2003
AUI 36-2308, Academic Freedom, 22 August 2008
Prescribed Forms
AU Form 42, Lecturer Agreement and Instructions/Permission to Record
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AU—Air University
AU/TV—Air University Television

Terms
AU/TV—Air University Television is the Air Force Southeast Regional Video Production
Studio and HQ/AU’s dedicated support facility for resident and non-resident schools.
Guest Lecturer—Speakers at AU schools who are not attached to, nor in the employ of, any Air
University school, organization or office.
Media—Digital, analog or other files or physical matter used to store recorded information.
Recording—Any type of audio and/or video reproduction or recording of a live presentation.
