BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 34-201
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                         20 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                      Services

                                                              MAXWELL GROUP LODGING
                                                                        PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no release ability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/CFRS                                                       Certified by: HQ AU/CF
                                                                       (Dr. Bruce T. Murphy)
Supersedes:   AUI 36-2326, Section 5, 7                                              Pages: 14
              January 2005


This instruction implements AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, and AUI 36-2626, Air
University Schools Course Scheduling and Student Production Reporting Procedures. It outlines
the process for lodging reservation requirements for Air University students and special event
attendees, as well as the purpose and operation of the Maxwell Lodging Steering Committee.
Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary
responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This instruction applies to HQ AU
staff, AU schools (Maxwell AFB and Gunter Annex only), 42d Force Support Squadron and all
Maxwell tenant and visiting agencies that require group lodging reservations.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has replaced specific chapters of AUI 36-2626 (previously AUI 36-2326), which
has been significantly revised. While general policy and procedure for requesting group lodging
for Maxwell have not been revised, the process has been placed in a separate publication for
better readability and to offer more clarified explanation of the process. The AU Registrar
Requirements, Scheduling and Analysis Branch, has been renamed to the AU Registrar Support
Branch.
 2                                                             AUI34-201 20 FEBRUARY 2013


1.1. Organization. The Commander and President of Air University (AU/CC) is dual-hatted as
AETC Director of Education (AU/ED). The Vice President for Academic Affairs (AU/CF) also
serves as AETC/EDE. The AU Registrar (AU/CFR), under the guidance of AU/CF, establishes
procedures governing all registrar activities and operations. This instruction focuses on the
operations of the Registrar Support Branch (AU/CFRS) within the Office of the Registrar.
     1.2. AU Registrar Support Branch Responsibilities. The Air University Registrar
     Support Branch has responsibility for: Course establishment and updates, AU student
     production data collection and reporting (to include support of the Air Force Education
     Requirements Board), and development of the AU Operations and Production Schedule (to
     include Maxwell group lodging requirements). Data related to these areas is collected,
     maintained, and stored in the AU Registrar Education Program Management (AUREPM)
     System. The Registrar Support Branch is responsible for maintaining specific support data in
     AUREPM and the assignment of user roles and privileges. AUREPM is the official
     repository for all AU course/class data and student records. For access to this system or for
     data requests, contact the AU Registrar office.
     1.3. Maxwell Base Lodging Office Responsibilities. The Maxwell lodging office
     personnel review the AUREPM database for course and event lodging requirements and
     ensure requests are transferred into the lodging management system. They also provide the
     AU Registrar Support Branch with the total rooms available prior to the annual schedule
     build, and provide notification of changes as far in advance as possible. As soon as known,
     the lodging office inputs the reservation number and location of lodging for the group into
     AUREPM. Lodging office personnel also attend the Lodging Steering Committee Meeting
     and assist with resolution of lodging conflicts.
     2.1. Group Lodging Prioritization and Assignment. The AU Registrar Support Branch
     manages the Maxwell group lodging prioritization and assignment process. This process
     collects AU and Non-AU education programs and other events dates, scheduled participants,
     and requested lodging. Maxwell Lodging Reservation office uses data submitted in the
     AUREPM database to build the schedule in the Maxwell/Gunter Reservation System, which
     details actual room assignments. The AU Registrar Support Branch is the designated liaison
     between Lodging and schools/units, and is responsible for deconflicting the lodging
     schedule. AU Schools and tenant units will request lodging for students attending official
     education programs or approved educational events (OEA) using the AUREPM database,
     regardless of the number of students attending. Maxwell tenant units and other units
     requesting lodging for groups of 10 or more attending workshops or seminars (OEA) or
     special events (SE) will also use the AUREPM database to reserve blocks of rooms, or if
     access is not practical, contact Registrar Support to input the request. 42 ABW/CCP (or
     designate) will submit request for special events for non-Maxwell units and special base
     events such as visiting bands, Air Shows, etc.
     2.2. On-Base Priority Weight System. In accordance with AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging
     Program, students attending schools on AETC bases will have priority for on-base lodging.
     In order to adhere to this policy, a method of assigning a prioritized weight factor was
     established. Weights are calculated prior to the annual initial schedule build and are based on
     a 3-year data history, using program information production data in the ETCA and
     AUREPM. A current list of factors used to establish the course/event weight can be obtained
     via AU Home page website, or on the Course Query Screen in AUREPM. The weight
AUI34-201 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                   3


  system determines the priority for on-base lodging only, and does not determine any off base
  contract quarters priority.
     2.2.2. Weights for existing programs will be reviewed every three years unless
     significant changes are identified that warrant an update. Weights will not be changed in
     the middle of a fiscal year but rather at the start of the next fiscal year if significant
     changes have occurred. Weights apply to all offerings of a course or event: Individual
     classes or offerings are not re-calculated.
     2.2.3. Weights for new programs or events will be calculated upon approval.
     2.2.4. Programs/Events with the highest On-Base Priority Weight will have priority for
     on-base lodging over those with a lesser weight. Programs or Events that have been
     granted “Required on Base” Status receive an additional 50 points.
  2.3. Procedures. Program/Event POCs enter lodging requirements in AUREPM
  simultaneously with building the class or offering. The Registrar Support Branch program
  analyst reviews requirements and processes valid submissions. Lodging pulls requirements
  from AUREPM, makes block reservations in their system, and manages reservations
  following processes outlined in AFI 34-246 and AFPD 34-6. Schools/Event Sponsors are
  required to send a student roster to the Lodging office no later than 14 days prior to the
  student arrival date. Failure to do so could result in rooms being forfeited.
     2.3.1. As a minimum, the roster submitted to Maxwell lodging must include rank, full
     name, gender, arrival and departure dates, e-mail address and any special requirements.
     The Maxwell lodging office or AU/CFRS can provide the most current format. This
     roster is used to assign individuals to specific rooms. Any changes (cancellations, late
     adds, etc) after the roster has been sent must be forwarded to Lodging, and updated in
     AUREPM in order to avoid problems, to include possible change in previously assigned
     locations.
     2.3.2. Submit the number of students or participants for the overall event and the number
     of those that require lodging. These numbers are not necessarily the same, as some may
     be from the local area. AUREPM tracks the total number for production reports, as well
     as the required lodging.
  2.4. Air University Registrar Education Management System (AUREPM). AUREPM is
  the official repository for AU student production. The system tracks all AU program/class
  schedules, and provides other registrar services. For the purpose of this AUI, the student
  scheduling and lodging modules of AUREPM only are discussed.
     2.4.1. Access to the system is through the AU Portal. Instructions for obtaining access
     and privileges can be obtained by contacting the Registrar Support Branch via the
     AU/REPM Org Mailbox: au/repm@maxwell.af.mil.
     2.4.2. More specific instructions for completing data input are available in this AUI,
     from the Registrar Support branch and on-line once the system has been accessed.
  2.5. The AU Operations and Production Schedule (AUOPS) Annual Build. The
  AUOPS consolidates program/class schedules for all AU schools as well as Other
  Educational Activities, Unit Training Assemblies and Special Events for Maxwell and other
  outside units/agencies. For official courses, the AUOPS is based on the fiscal year education
4                                                            AUI34-201 20 FEBRUARY 2013


    quota requirements approved in the appropriate programming document (AFERB PGL, PME
    PGL, Air Force Line Officer Accession Plan, Commissioned Officer Training Seat
    Allocation Conference, etc). ), and also any known seminars, workshops and special events.
    Program “offerings”, or “class” schedules should not be considered final (to include
    publishing schedules on school web sites or advertisements to the field) until the annual
    Schedule build is completed and approved by AU/DS, as schools may be requested to adjust
    schedules to meet Maxwell lodging requirements. Additional details concerning the annual
    schedule build and student production reporting can be found in AUI 36-2626.
       2.5.1. In the spring of each year, the Registrar Support Branch conducts a datacall to AU
       Schools, Maxwell tenant units and all known special event sponsors. The Maxwell
       schedule build must be complete no later than the end of July in order for Maxwell
       Lodging to build the lodging reservation and manpower plans for the upcoming year, and
       prior to the Lodging Steering Committee meeting held in July. (Ref AFI 34-246). The
       purpose of the data call is to build the upcoming fiscal year overall program/class
       schedule, and to collect initial requirements for Maxwell lodging.
       2.5.2. AUOPS Build Preparations. Before sending out the AUOPS data call, the
       Registrar Support branch prepares the AUREPM database to accept submissions.
           2.5.2.1. Lodging weight factors for Maxwell programs and events are calculated and
           loaded.
           2.5.2.2. Available lodging rooms are received from 42 FSVL and loaded into
           AUREPM by Maxwell, Gunter and range of rank.
           2.5.2.3. School/Unit POCs are loaded into AUREPM, and new POCs are assigned
           system privileges.
           2.5.2.4. Educational Programs projected production numbers are loaded for all listed
           on available programming documents.
       2.5.3. Datacall Process. Once all prep work is completed, AU/CFRS will begin the data
       call. The datacall is accomplished in three phases, or “rounds”. The datacall will be sent
       to school/unit commanders/commandants and AUREPM POCs explaining the purpose of
       the data call, specific instructions, and the list of programs included in that round.
       Program corresponding weights and known PGLS will be included for reference. POCs
       enter all student quota production and Maxwell lodging requirements in AUREPM in
       order to effectively manage resources and for production reporting purposes.
           2.5.3.1. Round 1 collects requirements for programs/events with a weight of 50 or
           higher. This generally includes the resident PME, Technical Training, pre-command
           training, and those programs/events that have approved Required-on-Base status.
           Programs/events included in Round 1 are identified in the data call attachments.
           2.5.3.2. Round 2 collects requirements for courses/events with a weight between 30
           and 49. This generally includes any remaining PCE and Technical Training not
           included in Round 1, enlisted resident PME, and some seminars and special events.
           POCs in Round 2 are provided with analysis from Round 1, indicating high and low
           demand periods, and are instructed to schedule offerings during low periods
           whenever possible.
AUI34-201 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                   5


        2.5.3.3. Round 3 collects requirements for all remaining programs/events, to include
        those not held at Maxwell for student production purposes. POCs in Round 3 with
        lodging requests for Maxwell are provided with analysis from Round 2 and are
        instructed to schedule offerings during low periods whenever possible.
     2.5.4. After each round, the Registrar Support Branch performs an analysis to identify
     overbooked dates and other issues, and attempts to deconflict the schedules. POCs may
     be asked to adjust class dates in order to maximize use of on-base lodging, thereby saving
     TDY-to-School dollars. Letters of justification as to why the class/event cannot be moved
     are required.
     2.5.5. Final Lodging Analysis. After all Maxwell courses and events have been
     submitted in AUREPM, the Registrar Support Branch personnel will perform a final
     analysis. The results of this analysis will be briefed to the AU Registrar who may also
     request date changes. The AU/ Registrar will then brief the AU Director of Staff or
     Commander, as appropriate. The Registrar Support Branch will notify schools/units
     when the schedule has been approved.
  2.6. Special Lodging Requirements. Special requirements will be submitted in accordance
  with the following procedures.
     2.6.1. International Military Students (IMS). International Officers School (IOS) student
     lodging requirements are submitted for all Professional Military Education (PME)
     preparatory programs held at Maxwell AFB. This information is provided by the
     International Military Student Office (IMSO), and input into the AUREPM database by
     an appointed POC. For the AWC and ACSC prep programs, the POC will submit the
     total number of international officers expected during the initial schedule build. Lodging
     will work with IOS to determine arrival dates for each student and what type of lodging is
     required (on- or off-base). As the IMS arrive, IOS will update AUREPM with the
     number of students actually lodged on base. Once all IMS have arrived and the final on-
     base count has been established, Registrar Support will notify AWC and ACSC POCs of
     the final number so that the lodging requests for the resident DE courses can be updated
     to match. For the SOS prep program, the same process for AWC and ACSC will be
     followed. In addition, the POC will identify the SOS resident class number that the IOS
     preparatory class feeds into by annotating the “lodging notes” section of the AUREPM
     submission screen. This note ensures that the Maxwell Lodging Office can identify
     students who will remain in lodging for both classes. For IMS attending other Maxwell
     programs, the reservations will be made the same as for other students attending the same
     program.
     2.6.2. Instructors, Guest Speakers, and Support Personnel. For AU official programs,
     group lodging can only be requested for students attending the course. Instructors, guest
     speakers, mentors and other support personnel who are not students will not be included
     in the program/class quota numbers or lodging requests. These people fall into the Space
     Available category and lodging must be procured directly through the Lodging
     reservations desk. As soon as dates and numbers are known, a list should be forwarded
     to Lodging for the entire fiscal year to assist with scheduling Space Available lodging.
     2.6.3. Senior Ranking Students. Senior Officers and equivalent (O-6, GS-15) and Chief
     Master Sergeants in student status should be counted in the appropriate quota type and
6                                                             AUI34-201 20 FEBRUARY 2013


       appropriate rank section of the class submission screen in AUREPM, and identified in the
       Lodging Notes. Lodging will attempt to provide rank-appropriate lodging. Such
       assignment may require the splitting of a class between buildings.
           2.6.3.1. Flag Officers and equivalent (O-7 and above, Senior Executive Services) in
           student status should be counted in the appropriate quota type and in the appropriate
           rank section of the class submission screen in AUREPM and identified in the
           Lodging Notes section. These student’s names should also be submitted to AU
           Protocol on an AETC IMT 88, AETC Distinguished Visitors Notification.
           Distinguished visitors, both as guest speakers and/or base visitors are also managed
           through AU Protocol using the AETC IMT 88.
       2.6.4. Follow-on and Continuation Courses. Some students may be attending classes
       scheduled immediately before or after other classes. The students should be counted in
       both program’s class scheduled numbers and lodging requests. If these students wish to
       stay in the same lodging room for the duration of both classes, a note must be put in the
       Lodging Notes section of AUREPM for both classes. Include the number of students,
       which classes are involved, and send the list of names to Lodging so they can attempt to
       book the room accordingly. Example: 18Jun12: Four students from this class will be
       continuing on to AU101 12B. Depending upon availability, there is no guarantee that the
       student/s will be able to remain in the same room.
       2.6.5. Courses Scheduled in Conjunction with AWC and ACSC Graduations. For
       students scheduled to attend official programs immediately following their AWC or
       ACSC graduation, arrangements must be made with base lodging. Students living in base
       housing must coordinate with the Housing Office to secure a later departure date until the
       end of the second course. If the student lives off base and will be moving into lodging
       during that period, they should contact Maxwell lodging office to arrange for lodging, to
       include any family members that may be accompanying them. These students are not
       included in the AUREPM lodging request, or on the roster submitted to Lodging. While
       not included in the lodging request, they will be reported for student production
       accounting and on graduate rosters IAW AUI 36-2626. Note that if the student remains
       for the second course without reporting to their next duty station first, they remain in a
       PCS status until the end of the second course.
       2.6.6. Squadron Officer College (SOC) Courses. SOC requires that individual members
       of flights be lodged as close together as possible and will submit an initial roster of
       students scheduled to attend Squadron Officer School in residence 14 calendar days
       before the class start date to the Lodging office. This roster will at a minimum contain
       names, initial flight assignments, and genders. Lodging will use this roster to assign
       lodging rooms, keeping students as close as possible to the other students in their flight,
       while avoiding mixed-gender bathroom arrangements. Roster additions and deletions
       will be sent to lodging as soon as received by SOC.
    2.7. Lodging Requests Updates. Lodging requests in the AUREPM system must be kept
    current at all times. POCs will update the AUREPM database (or notify Registrar Support if
    no access is available) anytime there are changes to program/event offering dates, student
    arrival/departure dates, the number of scheduled students, the number and/or rank of lodging
    rooms, and when any special instructions are modified. Changes to class/event data and
AUI34-201 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                     7


  lodging reservations are made via the AUREPM database. For any changes submitted after
  the roster has been submitted to the lodging office (14 days prior to start date), AU Registrar
  Support will also notify base lodging via e-mail to ensure timely update of the lodging
  system. Changes to the original requested dates and/or number of lodging rooms may result
  in a change to the original projected lodging location.
     2.7.1. Cancellation. The POC will submit the change through AUREPM as status “CX”,
     and remove both the scheduled quotas and the lodging requests. The start and stop dates,
     and lodging arrival and departure dates will remain in the system to create an audit trail
     of the original request.
     2.7.2. Date Change. Changes should be made as soon as known but no later than 30
     days prior to the class start date. Prior to making a final decision on a date change, the
     school/unit POC should check lodging availability for the proposed new time slot, by
     checking AUREPM or contacting AU Registrar Support. Once the new date is
     determined, the POC will submit the change through AUREPM as status “CD”. Update
     the class/event start and stop date as well as the projected lodging arrival and departure
     dates.
     2.7.3. Student/Participant Quantity Change: The POC will update AUREPM as soon as
     the change to scheduled students/participants is known. The AUREPM status will be
     “CQ”. Update the number of students/event participant scheduled quotas, as well as the
     number and type of lodging rooms required.
     2.7.4. Student/Participant arrival. For all official programs, workshops or seminars, unit
     training (OEA) the POC will update AUREPM when students actually arrive. The
     AUREPM status will be “E”. Input the actual number of students or event participants by
     component, and the actual number that are in lodging. For production accounting of
     students attending official programs, update graduate numbers IAW AUI 36-2626.
     Events categorized as “SE-Special Events” are not required to report actual participants
     as “Entered”. However, the “Scheduled” number and room requests should always
     reflect the most accurate count. Special Events and lodging requests supported by AU
     are reported annually.
  2.8. Required-on-Base (ROB) Status. If a course or event has a valid mission requirement
  that the sponsor feels requires on-base lodging, the sponsoring unit commander may request
  ROB status.
     2.8.1. To request ROB status, submit a letter to AU Director of Staff through the AU
     Registrar Support branch. This should be done, when possible, prior to or during the
     annual AU Operations and Planning Schedule (AUOPS) build data call in the spring of
     each year. The request must be made prior to initial scheduling of the program/event and
     prior to requesting lodging. If changes to dates, length or number of rooms requested
     after the initial assignment of on-base lodging are made, the Registrar Support branch and
     Maxwell Base Lodging will analyze availability, other programs/events affected, etc.
     On-base rooms cannot be always guaranteed, pending student throughput.
         2.8.1.1. Registrar Support coordinates with lodging to determine other
         programs/events in session during that time frame, identifies any courses that would
         be displaced, any additional cost of displacement and impact on the TDY-to-School
8                                                             AUI34-201 20 FEBRUARY 2013


           fund. The data is then analyzed and a package forwarded to AU/DS for final
           determination and approval/disapproval. Attachment 3 is a template of the request
           letter.
           2.8.1.2. If the request is approved, Registrar Support Branch personnel will email a
           copy of the approved letter to the requestor, update the weight in AUREPM and
           notify Lodging. If the request is denied, Registrar Support will notify the requester
           and indicate the reason for denial. A list of current programs/events granted ROB
           status is filed in the Registrar Support Branch official files.
    2.9. Actual Location/Reservation Assignment: The lodging office reviews requests in
    AUREPM, and inputs information into the lodging reservation system. The assigned weight
    is used to determine the actual location of lodging (see paragraph 2.2). When room locations
    are determined, lodging personnel will update AUREPM with the actual location and
    reservation number. POCs can query the lodging reports in AUREPM to view this
    information as needed.
    3.1. Maxwell Lodging Steering Committee. IAW AFI 34-246, Chapter 3, AETC bases are
    required to create annual class schedules and review with the lodging general manager. At
    Maxwell AFB, this requirement is filled by the Lodging Steering Committee. This
    Committee is chaired by the AU Registrar in coordination with 42 FSS/FSVL, and is
    comprised of representatives from each school/unit requiring group lodging. The Lodging
    Steering Committee meets quarterly, as a minimum, thus fulfilling the requirement to review
    schedules for accurate forecasting of the next 3 months. This meeting is the forum for
    discussing lodging issues, questions, problems and solutions. The July meeting is when the
    initial schedules for the upcoming fiscal year are reviewed. All organizations are encouraged
    to send a representative even if there are no immediate issues, as meeting discussions may
    affect lodging at a later date. The primary focus of the Lodging Steering Committee is to
    maximize the use of on base lodging.
    4.1. Personally Identifiable Information (PII): Student PII will be protected at all times in
    both written and digital format. E-mails containing PII, FOUO and Privacy Act Information
    sent to other Air Force or DoD offices for official purposes shall be encrypted. Additional
    protection methods, to include password protecting the information in a separate Microsoft
    Office™ document, may be used when encryption is not possible. Do not send the above
    information to distribution lists or group e-mail addresses unless each member has an official
    need to know the personal information. Official email messages will be digitally signed and
    encrypted (MGS). Before forwarding emails you have received that contains personal
    information, verify that your intended recipients are authorized to receive the information
    under The Privacy Act.




                                             DAVID S. FADOK, Lt Gen, USAF
                                             Commander & President, Air University
AUI34-201 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                              9


                                      Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCE AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-2, Managing Nonappropriated Funds, 21 June 2012
AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, 9 November 2007
AUI 36-2626, Air University Schools Class Scheduling and Student Production Reporting
Procedures, 2 August 2012

Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AETC IMT 88, AETC Distinguished Visitor Notification

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACSC—Air Command and Staff College
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFERB—Air Force Education Requirements Board
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AU—Air University
AUOPS—Air University Operations and Productions Schedule
AUREPM—Air University Registrar Education Program Management System
AWC—Air War College
AY—Academic Year
CFM—Career Field Functional Manager (in reference to the AFERB process)
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System code (Used to identify a program in the
DCPDS)
DS—Director of Staff
ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcement website
FM—Financial Management
FY—Fiscal Year
ID—Identifier
OAT—Officer Accessions Training
OEA—Other Educational Activity; Non-official educational event, seminar, workshop
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OTA—Oracle Training Application
PEC—Program Element Code
PGL—Program Guidance Letter
PCE—Professional Continuing Education
PDS—Personnel Data System Code (Used to identify a program in milPDS)
POC—Point of Contact
PME—Professional Military Education
PRD—Program Requirements Document
SAASS—School of Advanced Air and Space Studies
TT—Technical Training
Terms
 10                                                      AUI34-201 20 FEBRUARY 2013


Class—An offering of an officially approved educational program also used in AUREPM for
offering of OEA or event
Program (Course)—Approved Education
Special Event—Non-educational event requiring lodging on Maxwell AFB, such as a band
performance, graduation ceremony, air show, etc
AUI34-201 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                        11


                                          Attachment 2
                                   AUREPM DEFINITIONS

Figure A2.1. Applicable AUREPM Menus
Course Plans & Scheduling: Contains all input and query screens, and report requests in support of
student production reporting.
           Course: Contains input and query screen for course information and the Course Master
           Listing Report
           Class: Contains input, update and query (“review”) screens for class offerings, the AUOPS
           report and other production reports
           Special Events: Contains input, update and query (“review”) screens for special events
           Lodging: Contains query and report information for Maxwell AFB lodging requests, available
           rooms and individual reservation information
           Baseline: Contains basic AU Digest and MMTR report worksheets
           Support: Contains screens for input of system support data maintained by the AU Registrar
           office

Figure A2.2. Codes for AUREPM Data
Course Category and Category Subtype:
ACAD     Academic (Graduate or Undergraduate Education)
         GED         Graduate Education
         UGED        Undergraduate Education
PCE      Professional Continuing Education
         REG         Regular PCE
         MED         Medical PCE
PME      Professional Military Education
         OPME        Officer PME
         EPME        Enlisted PME
         JPME        Joint PME
OAT      Officer Accessions Training
         AECP        Airman Education Commissioning Program
         NECP        Nurse Education Commissioning Program
         OTS         Officer Training School
         ROTC        Reserve Officer Training Corps
TT       Technical Training
         3-Level
         5-Level
         7-Level
         9-Level
OEA      Other Education Activities (non-official workshops or seminars)
         SEM         Seminar
         WS          Workshop
         JROTC Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps
         OTH         Other
SE       Special Event (non-educational in nature, such as graduation ceremony, band performance, IG
         team visit, etc). Input into AUREPM for lodging request purposes only.
 12                                                                       AUI34-201 20 FEBRUARY 2013


Figure A2.3. Codes for AUREPM “Class Scheduling Submission” Screen
Codes for AUREPM “Class Scheduling Submission” screen:
BASIC DATA:
   Class/Event Status codes: (Used to communicate to the Registrar Support Branch and Financial Management
   personnel the intent of the submission).
        I              Initial Build (Used during the initial AUOPS build)
        A              Add after initial build (Used only for offerings added after the AUOPS build is approved.)
        C              Correct previously Submitted Data (input incorrectly)
        CD             Change Date
        CDQ            Change dates and quotas simultaneously
        CQ             Cancel (Cancel a class that was previously scheduled-not used to delete class entered in
                       error.)
        E              Entered (Actual arrival of students in a class offering or participants in an event.)
        G              Graduated or completed a class
        O              Other change not listed (specify the issue in the class notes field.)
        R              Reallocation, request to move funded quotas from one course to another
        U              Unfunded request. Used for school POC to submit unfunded quota request to AU/FM for an
                       AETC funded course.
        NOT            Used only during initial schedule build to indicate a course that received AFERB funded
        TAUGHT         quotas, but will not be taught that FY
   Class/Event Location: (Note: Codes are added as needed; the following represents the only locations that
   would require lodging on Maxwell AFB.)
        G              Gunter
        M              Maxwell
        O              Other. Note: For lodging purposes use this code if the event is held in the local area but not
                       on base, and lodging is requested on Maxwell AFB. This is the location of the class or event,
                       not the location of the requested lodging.
   Class/Event Delivery Method:
        RES            Resident. Student/Participant is TDY to the course school house or event location. Note: All
                       classes/events requesting lodging IAW with this AUI are considered resident on Maxwell
                       AFB. A rare exception is when a school house such as AFIT or AFSC holds a class offering
                       at Maxwell that is normally taught in resident at the school house. This method of delivery
                       will be “OS”, but location will be “M=Maxwell”.
        OS             On Site (Instructor travels to student location)
   Funding Status:
        Yes            If sponsor funded students are scheduled
        No             If all students are local or user funded
QUOTAS:
   Air Force Funded Quotas Students whose TDY or PCS is funded by the listed Air Force Sponsoring
                                    agency, and are programmed on a published PGL
   Local/User           Funded Students whose TDY or PCE is funded by other than the sponsoring agency
   Quotas                           (Local unit or command), or are local at the same base as the school house. The
                                    “Programmed” column of quotas for this section will be populated only if user
                                    funded quotas are published on a PGL
LODGING REQUESTS:
   Projected Arrival/               Input dates the majority of participants will arrive/depart
   Departure Dates
   Billet Projected                 Input the total number by rank grouping that are expected to require rooms
   Class Lodging Notes              Input the POC and any special notes for Maxwell AFB lodging
   DL Data                          N/A
AUI34-201 20 FEBRUARY 2013                            13


                             Attachment 3
             REQUIRED-ON-BASE REQUEST LETTER SAMPLE
14                                  AUI34-201 20 FEBRUARY 2013


                     Attachment 4
     JUSTIFICATION FOR CLASS DATES LETTER SAMPLE
