BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2630
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                                    5 MAY 2014

                                                                                      Personnel

                                      AIR UNIVERSITY ADVISOR AND CHAIR PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/CFA                                 Certified by: HQ AU/CFD (Ms. L. Diana Bunch)
                                                                                   Pages: 7

This instruction implements the Air University Supplement to AFI 25-201, Support Agreement
Procedures, and AUI 36-2321, Research and Publication. The primary purpose of this
instruction is to establish the intent and policy of the Air University (AU) Commander and
President regarding advisors and chairs. In addition, this instruction defines the positions and
identifies the duties and responsibilities at each level in supporting the advisors and chairs in
carrying out their mission in support of their sponsors and the mission of AU. Finally, this
instruction describes the process by which the advisors and chairs fulfill their roles as liaisons
between their sponsoring entity and AU. This instruction applies to all AU academic centers, the
School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (SAASS) and the Air Force Research Institute
(AFRI). This instruction does not apply to the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard
Advisors assigned to AU Headquarters.

A Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) or Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is required for
each advisor and chair assigned to Air University. Coordination and approval will comply with
AFI 25-201_AUSUP. Existing agreements, including future updates, apply in implementing this
instruction. The following agreements apply to AU advisors: MOA, Assignment of Military
Faculty at service Senior Level Colleges (Army, Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force); MOU,
Exchange of Air Force Officers with German Air Force; MOA, RAF Agreement; MOA, DIA
Representative; MOA, Central Intelligence Agency and AU. Agreements that apply to AU chairs:
Major Commands MOU, ACC, AFMC, AFSPC, AMC, AFSOC, PACAF, USAFE and AETC (AU);
MOA, AFMC Commander and AU Commander[and President] for the AFMC Chair at AU;
MOU, Special Operations Command with AU; and MOA, NNSA with AU. See Attachment 1 for
terms.

Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the office of primary
responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management
2                                                                      AUI36-2630 5 MAY 2014

System Records Disposition Schedule. Waivers to this instruction are not authorized.
Supplements must be coordinated through AU/CF for AU/CC approval.

1. Intent, Policy, and Terms.

    1.1. AU receives special support for selected officer, enlisted and civilian education programs
    from advisors and chairs. These individuals represent organizations and functional areas that
    have a vested interest in the curriculum at AU and with which AU has established
    relationships for improving educational programs across colleges and schools. While the
    Advisor and Chair Program is a university program, execution is administratively assigned to
    the Centers to which they are assigned.

    1.2. Advisors. Advisors fill externally sourced service or agency positions to represent their
    agency/service while assigned as faculty at AU. Advisors, typically senior leaders such as O-
    6, O-6 select, or GS-15 equivalent, provide expertise and advice to the AU Commander and
    President on subjects related to joint military service, foreign military service, US interagency
    operations, or other specialized areas. Advisors serve as the principal liaison between AU and
    their parent service or agency. Advisors serve as faculty members at the school to which they
    are assigned and may also provide administrative support to same-service students
    (performance reports, orders, etc.).

    1.3. Chairs. Chairs fill faculty positions that are sourced and assigned by AU but identified to
    represent a specific functional area. Chairs, typically O-6, O-6-select, or GS-15 equivalent,
    are assigned to the Centers with primary duty as faculty members at the school to which they
    are assigned. Additionally, they provide expertise and advice to the AU Commander and
    President on subjects of interest to the Major Command (MAJCOM), Combatant Command,
    command grouping, or staff agency they represent. They also serve as the principal liaison
    between their lead organization and AU. Attachment 2 contains a list of functional chairs and
    their respective lead MAJCOM or sponsor.

    1.4. Process for Accreditation of Joint Education (PAJE). Advisors and chairs are included in
    the calculation for student-to-faculty ratio for PAJE accreditation IAW CJCSI 1800.01D,
    Officer Professional Military Education Policy.

2. Duties and Responsibilities.

    2.1. AU Commander and President.

       2.1.1. Appoints the advisors and chairs as the principal liaisons between AU and their
       respective services or agencies and solicits advice on issues of mutual interest. In
       accomplishing these tasks, the AU Commander and President delegates day-to-day
       oversight and personnel actions for advisor and chair activities to the Center Commanders,
       SAASS Commandant and AFRI Director as appropriate. While the advisors and chairs
       serve the AU enterprise, the priority for curriculum support and teaching efforts by the US
       Army, US Navy, US Marine Corps, US Central Intelligence Agency, Royal Air Force,
       German Air Force, US Defense Intelligence Agency and US Department of State advisors
       and all AU Command Chairs will be to the Air War College. They may provide expertise
AUI36-2630 5 MAY 2014                                                                            3

     and advice to other schools/programs as allowable within the constraints of their primary
     duties.

     2.1.2. Meets annually with the advisors and chairs to review ongoing activities and
     provides direction for future activities and outreach back to their sponsoring agencies.

  2.2. Center Commander/SAASS Commandant/AFRI Director.

     2.2.1. Exercises day-to-day oversight of advisor and chair activities within the
     Center/organization on behalf of the AU Commander and President.

     2.2.2. Provides resources as required or as specified in agreements with sponsors
     including office space, administrative staff, equipment and funds to support advisors and
     chairs in carrying out their duties.

     2.2.3. Ensures all advisors and chairs receive the necessary education and training to
     fulfill the duties specified in this instruction.

     2.2.4. Ensures that teaching and administrative workload allows sufficient time for them to
     perform duties specific to chair and advisor roles and responsibilities.

     2.2.5. Meets semi-annually with advisors and chairs to review activities, review support
     status, provide direction for outreach efforts, and address any other issues of interest to the
     Center Commander and/or AU Commander and President.

     2.2.6. Coordinates with sponsoring agency for personnel fills.

     2.2.7. On behalf of the AU Commander and President, coordinates with the senior service
     and agency advisors to establish and codify command relationships and ADCON
     authorities. Center Commanders and other AU organizations may appoint liaisons to
     work directly with each chair and advisor as they deem appropriate.

  2.3. Advisors and Chairs.

     2.3.1. Service or agency advisors may have administrative duties delegated to them by
     their sponsors. These duties must be outlined in each advisor and chair MOU or MOA.
     Updates to an MOU/MOA must be coordinated through the office defined in AFI 25-
     201_AUSUP as indicated. The following list includes duties common to advisors and
     chairs:

         2.3.1.1. Represent their sponsoring agency, service, or functional area on activities
         regarding doctrine, strategy, employment and other issues considered crucial by their
         respective sponsors.

         2.3.1.2. Advise the AU Commander and President on educational matters pertinent to
         their sponsoring agencies or functional areas. Chairs will provide the AU Academic
         Council an annual status update.
4                                                                   AUI36-2630 5 MAY 2014

       2.3.1.3. Contribute to AU’s research mission as appropriate. Serve as the conduit for
       AU research and projects of special interest to their agency, service or functional area.
       Within the established guidelines for each school’s research program, serve as the
       primary or additional research advisor to AU students who are conducting studies in
       their area of expertise.

       2.3.1.4. Advise and assist curriculum developers at AU schools to ensure that
       curricula relative to their respective agency, service, or functional area are kept
       current.

       2.3.1.5. If appropriate, maintain their expertise relative to their respective agency,
       service or functional area policies by attending conferences, meetings, service-related
       events, etc.

       2.3.1.6. Assist the AU Commander and President in establishing and maintaining an
       outreach relationship with their sponsoring agency, service or functional area. Inform
       their agency, service or functional area of updates and developments at AU.

       2.3.1.7. Service advisors establish a relationship with their respective service colleges
       and the Air Force Senior Liaison Officers at those schools to promote stronger
       relationships between AU and those colleges to exchange information that could
       benefit the educational programs.

       2.3.1.8. The international military advisors assist the AU Commander and President to
       establish and maintain relationships between their nation's senior military education
       institutions and others as requested, for the purpose of increasing cultural understanding,
       forging bonds, and exchanging information of mutual benefit.

    2.3.2. Liaison. A key role of advisors and chairs is to serve as principal liaison between
    their sponsors, service, or functional area and AU. Liaison responsibilities include the
    following:

       2.3.2.1. Develop and maintain awareness of their sponsoring Service or agency’s
       current activities, issues, priorities and initiatives.

       2.3.2.2. Facilitate coordination between their respective service or agency and AU.
       Chairs and advisors will review their respective MOAs and MOUs on an annual basis
       and will update as needed IAW AFI 25-201_AUSUP.

       2.3.2.3. Develop and maintain a broad array of contacts across the AU faculty and staff
       in order to provide insight and timely information on the activities, issues, priorities and
       initiatives of their sponsoring organizations. According to AFI 16-107, foreign
       exchange officers duties will be limited to advice and cannot act in the capacity of a
       liaison.


                                                  DAVID S. FADOK, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                  Commander, Air University
AUI36-2630 5 MAY 2014                                                                  5

                                       Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

CJCSI 1800.01D, Officer Professional Military Education Policy (OPMEP), 15 July 2009

AFI 16-107, Military Personnel Exchange Program (MPEP), 2 February 2006

AFI 25-201_AUSUP, Support Agreement Procedures, 12 July 2012

AUI 36-2321, Research and Publication, 27 October 2011

Adopted Forms

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ACC—Air Combat Command

AETC—Air Education and Training Command

AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command

AFRI—Air Force Research Institute

AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command

AFSPC—Air Force Space Command

AMC—Air Mobility Command

AU—Air University

DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency, US

MAJCOM—Major Command

MOA—Memorandum of Agreement

MOU—Memorandum of Understanding

NNSA—National Nuclear Security Administration

PACAF—Pacific Air Forces

PAJE—Process of Accreditation for Joint Education
6                                                         AUI36-2630 5 MAY 2014

RAF—Royal Air Force, British Armed Forces

SAASS—School of Advanced Air and Space Studies

USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe

USCYBERCOM—US Cyber Command, US Strategic Command

Service Senior Level Colleges—US Army War College (USAWC); Naval War College (NWC);
Marine Corps War College (MCWAR); Air War College (AWC)
AUI36-2630 5 MAY 2014                                                               7



                                    Attachment 2

            AU COMMAND CHAIR AND RESPECTIVE LEAD AGENCY

  A2.1. Functional Chairs and Respective Lead Agencies.

   Command Chair Title                   Lead MAJCOM/COCOM/Staff
   Air Force Materiel Command            Air Force Materiel Command
   Mobility Air Forces                   Air Mobility Command
   US Special Operations Command         United States Special Operations Command
   Air Force Space Command               Air Force Space Command
   Combat Air Forces                     Air Combat Command
   Air Force Surgeon General             Air Force Surgeon General
   Chairman of the Joint Chiefs          The Joint Staff
   Global Strike Command                 Air Force Global Strike Command
   Cyber Command                         United States Cyber Command (pending)
