BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2631
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                                  20 MAY 2014
                                                                                      Personnel

                                                                       AU FACULTY SENATE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available or ordering on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/CFAE                                 Certified by: HQ AU/CF (Dr. Anthony C. Cain)
                                                                                   Pages: 10

This instruction implements AUI 36-2606, Air University Academic Corporate Process. It
identifies the role and responsibilities of the AU Faculty Senate in academic governance. It
applies to all AU centers, their subordinate organizations, the Air Force Institute of Technology
(AFIT), and the Air Force Research Institute (AFRI). Refer recommended changes or
corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Supplements/implementing publications to
this instruction must be coordinated through AU/CF before approval.

1. Purpose and Scope.

   1.1. The faculty and administration collectively bear responsibility for ensuring academic
   excellence and rigor that prepares students to accomplish the Air Force mission. Robust
   participation of the faculty in university governance leads to better decision making,
   stronger collegiality, and forges relationships founded on trust and mutual understanding.
   Establishing the AU Faculty Senate provides the university with a formal body to provide
   faculty perspectives on issues under consideration.

       1.1.1. Senators have freedom of expression during their meetings and protection from
       censure for such expression. Other established corporate processes should not restrict
       Faculty Senate deliberations. At the same time, the Senate will not interfere with nor
       supplant existing corporate processes. Members of the Faculty Senate will adhere to
       established norms for using the chain of command and following standard
       staffing/tasking processes for internal coordination and approval of initiatives at the
       school/center level. Initiatives emanating from the AU Academic Board will be reported
       back to the Board.

   1.2. Faculty members are primarily involved in governance as it directly relates to
   academics. The faculty formally engages with AU’s senior leaders through participation in
2                                                                      AUI36-2631 20 MAY 2014

    the AU Academic Corporate Process and the AU Faculty Senate. This instruction provides
    guidance for developing and implementing a formal faculty role in academic governance at
    the university level.

    1.3. Nothing in this instruction is intended to inhibit the authority of, nor question the utility
    of the AU Commander and President convening faculty gatherings on a recurring basis to
    directly address issues of concern to the faculty and engage in direct dialog with faculty
    members.

    1.4. Participation in the Faculty Senate is voluntary and does not constitute an administrative
    duty with associated pay step increase.

2. Roles and Responsibilities.

    2.1. The Faculty Senate is an advisory body to the AU Commander and President.
    Expectations of this body include the following:

       2.1.1. Represent all AU faculty members.

       2.1.2. Foster an environment of open communication and understanding among academic
       disciplines and schools through analysis of current issues and collegial debate.

       2.1.3. Discuss and offer recommendations to the Air University President on academic
       matters that impact the institution. If recommended decisions/actions are confined to the
       purview of one center/CC, Commandant, or Chancellor, the school/center corporate
       processes should be opened to Senators to address such matters. Senators should make
       use of these processes as appropriate.

       2.1.4. Participate with AU Academic Affairs (AU/CFA) in revisions of the AU
       Continuum of Education Strategic Guidance (CESG).

       2.1.5. Advise the AU Academic Board and Council on emerging instructional methods,
       practices and academic standards for higher education.

       2.1.6. Attend educational program reviews for the schools to which they are assigned to
       acquire the strategic perspective necessary for contributing at the school, center, and
       university levels. Participate in the program review discussion as appropriate.

           2.1.6.1. Members are encouraged to attend additional university program reviews as
           a guest. This is intended to develop insight on how other schools integrate program
           delivery with their strategic direction and to gain an understanding of how curriculum
           integration is operationalized in other schools. Additionally, alternative methods for
           achieving and measuring learning outcomes may be shared.

       2.1.7. Participate in selecting, defining the scope, writing the evaluation plan, and
       executing the AU Quality Enhancement Plan (QEP).
AUI36-2631 20 MAY 2014                                                                            3

      2.1.8. Meet at least annually with the AU Commander and President and the Vice
      President for Academic Affairs to discuss topics of interest and provide advice to the
      AU/CC for his/her consideration. This is a closed meeting between the AU/CC, the Vice
      President of Academic Affairs (VPAA), and the Faculty Senate.

      2.1.9. The members of the Faculty Senate are encouraged to meet with the AU Board of
      Visitors (AU BOV) during regularly scheduled AU BOV meetings. While the AU BOV
      sets the agenda, the intent is for the Faculty Senate to meet with them at least annually,
      pending their approval.

          2.1.9.1. The President of the Faculty Senate will coordinate with the Associate Vice
          President of Academic Affairs (AU/CFA) and the AU Designated Federal Officer
          (DFO) to request and plan times to meet with the AU BOV. Normally requests for
          space on the AU BOV agendas must be coordinated at least 60 days prior to the
          desired meeting. AU BOV meeting dates are published for several years into the
          future. The DFO will provide the dates of upcoming meetings to the Faculty Senate
          upon request.

          2.1.9.2. The DFO will be responsible for working agreed-upon meetings into the AU
          BOV schedule and collecting and disseminating read-ahead materials to the board
          members.

          2.1.9.3. If the AU BOV approves the Faculty Senate’s request for a meeting, the
          DFO will inform the Senate President of the date, time, and location of the meeting.
          Meetings will be held in a venue large enough to accommodate the full Senate.

      2.1.10. Conduct other activities deemed by the Faculty Senate to be essential to the
      successful pursuit of high quality education in the context of the university's mission.

3. AU Academic Corporate Process. The AU Academic Board and AU Academic Council are
the primary mechanisms through which the faculty members communicate with the
university’s senior leaders. Participation in these bodies provides two-way exchange of
information and opinion on matters of shared concern.

   3.1. The AU Faculty Senate conveys the faculty’s perspectives and recommendations to
   university senior leaders as voting members of the AU Academic Board and AU Academic
   Council, IAW AUI 36-2606, Air University Academic Corporate Process, paragraphs 3.2.1
   and 3.3.2.

      3.1.1. The President of the Faculty Senate is a voting member of the AU Academic
      Council and is required to attend all Council meetings. If unable, another Senator may attend
      as his/her proxy.

      3.1.2. The Vice President (President Elect) of the Faculty Senate is a voting member of the AU
      Academic Board and is required to attend all Board meetings. If unable to attend,
      another Senator may attend as his/her proxy.
4                                                                   AUI36-2631 20 MAY 2014

    3.2. The AU Faculty Senate may be requested to form working groups to assist the AU
    Academic Board with its business.

       3.2.1. Faculty Senate members are responsible to report progress of their working groups
       as agreed upon during the AU Academic Board meeting. They should be prepared to
       provide an update at each monthly Board meeting.

4. Membership and Meetings.

    4.1. Eligibility. Persons eligible to become members of this body include full time military
    or civilian faculty members who are physically located on the Maxwell-Gunter and AFIT
    campuses. This requirement ensures the member is available to participate in all Senate
    meetings and other activities. Since each member represents others, it is important to have
    regular contact with one’s constituency and be aware of their concerns and positions on
    matters of interest to the Senate.

       4.1.1. Faculty members must be assigned to a specific school or research organization
       whose primary duties are to teach, author original curriculum, conduct scholarly research,
       and/or advise students. Faculty members who have received promotion, pay, or step
       increases for administrative duties are not eligible. When doubts arise as to an
       individual’s eligibility, the AU/VPAA will make the determination.

    4.2. Voting Members. Elected Senators are the only voting members of the AU Faculty
    Senate.

    4.3. Terms. The term of membership is one year. Terms begin on 1 August and end 31 July
    of the following year. Members may be selected to serve a maximum of three consecutive
    terms. At least one year must elapse after the third term before a member may be selected to
    serve again.

    4.4. Composition. Two Senators will be selected from each of the organizations listed
    below. Those that deliver distance learning (DL) programs will select one additional
    member to represent DL faculty for a maximum of three Senators.

       4.4.1. Air Command and Staff College

       4.4.2. Air Force Institute of Technology, (includes College of Engineering, CE and LS)

       4.4.3. Air Force Research Institute

       4.4.4. Air Force Senior Non-Commissioned Officer Academy

       4.4.5. Air War College

       4.4.6. Barnes Center for Enlisted Professional Military Education

       4.4.7. Eaker Center for Professional Development
AUI36-2631 20 MAY 2014                                                                         5

      4.4.8. Holm Center for Accessions and Citizen Development

      4.4.9. International Officer School

      4.4.10. LeMay Center Education Directorate

      4.4.11. LeMay Center Wargaming Directorate

      4.4.12. Officer Training School

      4.4.13. School of Advanced Air and Space Studies

      4.4.14. Spaatz Academic Centers (Spaatz/AR)

      4.4.15. Squadron Officer School

   4.5. Selection. Senat ors will be comprised of faculty members selected from the
   school/organization they represent. Organizations will use methods that allow broad
   participation of their faculty in selecting their Senators. School faculty members, as defined
   in para 4.1.1 will provide the pool of candidates from which selection/election will be made.
   Organizations listed in para 4.4 will determine internally how to conduct final selection. The
   intent is to provide an authentic voice for faculty members at large. When possible, one will
   be military and one will be civilian.

      4.5.1. Senators should be selected by schools/organizations no later than 31 May.
      Schools/organizations will provide the names of incoming Senators to the AU Faculty
      Senate President.

      4.5.2. Members will vote to select Officers named in para 5.2 of this instruction. Each
      officer must achieve 51% of the vote. Runoffs will be held until the simple majority is
      achieved.

      4.5.3. Associate Members.           Emeritus, Visiting, Research, and Adjunct faculty
      a s s i g n e d t o A U are invited to attend and participate in Senate meetings, without
      voting privileges. Associate Members do not contribute to quorum requirements.

   4.6. Meetings. The Senate shall hold meetings as necessary, but at least once per quarter.
   All meetings will be announced to the entire AU faculty who may attend without voting
   privileges.

   4.7. Quorum Requirements. Active participation in the Senate is essential to the
   effectiveness of faculty governance. The Senate expects strong participation from all
   members. The AU Faculty Senate quorum is 51% of the voting membership.

5. Faculty Senate Officers.
6                                                                    AUI36-2631 20 MAY 2014

    5.1. Elected Officers. The Senate shall hold elections for new officers as the first order of
    business at the initial meeting of the year. Term of elected officials will be effective
    immediately. The term for each of these offices is one year, from 1 August through 31 July.

    5.2. Elected officer positions: President, Vice President and Secretary.

       5.2.1. The President, if returned to the Senate by his/her school may be re-elected by the
       Faculty Senate to the office of President for a maximum of two consecutive terms. If
       he/she is returned to the Senate for a third term, the incumbent may not be elected
       President for a third term. This is to ensure the Vice President can fill the office of
       President before term limits prohibit it.

       5.2.2. The Vice President (VP) automatically assumes the office of President at the end
       of his/her term to provide continuity of leadership in the Faculty Senate. Therefore, the
       VP nominee should have at least two years remaining time-on-station upon selection.
       This Senator is automatically re-elected to the second term by his/her school/organization
       and fills one of the school’s Senator quotas. If the incumbent President completes a
       second term, and the Vice President is re-elected for a second term, he/she will be
       automatically returned to the Senate for a third term and will then assume the office of
       President.

           5.2.2.1. If a different Senator is elected Vice President during the President’s second
           term, automatic re-election to the Senate goes to the new VP.

       5.2.3. The Secretary may serve for three consecutive terms if the member was returned
       to the Faculty Senate by his/her school each term.

    5.3. Duties of Office.

       5.3.1. The President has the following responsibilities:

           5.3.1.1. Provides the AU Commander and President and AU Vice President for
           Academic Affairs a current Faculty Senate Roster no later than 30 September.

           5.3.1.2. Holds and chairs periodic Senate meetings; provides new agenda items to
           the Secretary. Emergency meetings are called as needed.

           5.3.1.3. Ensures minutes are distributed to faculty and members within 15 working
           days after the meeting.

           5.3.1.4. Informs Senators of academic i ss u es and decisions affecting the
           u n i v e r s i t y so they have a sound basis for its consideration of such matters.

           5.3.1.5. Solicits Senator’s perspectives on academic matters.

           5.3.1.6. Ensures all recommendations adopted by the Senate are presented to the
           AU Academic Board for consideration.
AUI36-2631 20 MAY 2014                                                                       7

        5.3.1.7. Serves as a voting member of the AU Academic Council. Reports to the
        Senate the discussion or actions taken by the AU Academic Council on
        recommendations made by the Senate through the AU Academic Board.

        5.3.1.8. Represents the Senate at official meetings other than the AU Academic
        Council as appropriate or requested.

        5.3.1.9. Ensures working groups or committees are formed as needed to assist the AU
        Academic Board or to address matters pertinent to the functions of the Senate.
        Oversees the activities of all committees and ensures committee activities are
        reported to the Senate.

        5.3.1.10. Initiates the call for nominations for the following year’s members. The call
        is sent to the schools/organizations through routine channels, such as e-mail
        Workflow or Task Management Tool (TMT) tasker, no later than 31 March to ensure
        selections can be made by 31 May.

     5.3.2. Vice President. The Vice President has the following responsibilities:

        5.3.2.1. Coordinates the presentation of committee reports prior to each Senate
        meeting. Ensures all Senate members have information regarding committee motions
        prior to Senate meetings.

        5.3.2.2. Assumes the office of President in his/her absence.

        5.3.2.3. Assists in recruiting officer candidates for the following year.

        5.3.2.4. Sits on the AU Academic Board as a voting member. Reports to the Senate
        the discussion or actions taken by the AU Academic Board on recommendations
        made to them by the Senate.

     5.3.3. Secretary. The Secretary has the following responsibilities:

        5.3.3.1. Prepares and distributes the agenda for all Senate meetings. Notifies faculty
        and Senators of meetings in a timely manner.

        5.3.3.2. Maintains a roster of the current members including school or research
        organization assigned, department of assignment, and length of time as a Senator.
        By 15 September of each year, the Secretary shall review and update the roster to
        reflect recent Senator selections and departures.

        5.3.3.3. Maintains the records reflecting all meetings and significant decisions or
        activities of the Senate. These records should be available to all members.

        5.3.3.4. Prepares and distributes the minutes of all Senate meetings.

        5.3.3.5 Performs other duties as requested by the President.
8                                                               AUI36-2631 20 MAY 2014

    5.3.3.6. If an elected office is prematurely vacated, the Secretary will schedule a
    special election to fill vacant office(s). If the vacancy is that of the Secretary, another
    officer will schedule a special election.



                                               DAVID S. FADOK, Lt Gen, USAF
                                               Commander and President
AUI36-2631 20 MAY 2014                                                                  9


                                      Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET)

AUI 36-2606, Air University Academic Corporate Process, 22 October 2013

CJCSI 1800.01D, Officer Professional Military Education Policy (OPMEP), 15 July 2009,
Enclosure F

North Central Association Higher Learning Commission (NCA-HLC) Handbook of
Accreditation, November 2013

Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) Principles
of Accreditation, 1 January 2012

Adopted Form

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology

AFRI—Air Force Research Institute

AU—Air University

AU BOV—Air University Board of Visitors

CC—Commander

DFO—Designated Federal Officer

DL—Distance Learning

VP—Vice President

VPAA—Vice President of Academic Affairs

Terms

Adjunct—A part-time faculty member hired on a contractual basis
10                                                                 AUI36-2631 20 MAY 2014

Board—IAW AUI 36-2606, the AU Academic Board provides a senior educator review of
issues impacting the university’s learning mission. Composed of the Deans, Educational
Advisors, Faculty and AU Deputy Directors, it is an advisory body to the AU Academic Council,

Center—The term center refers to the following organizations in their entirety: Air Force
Institute of Technology (AFIT); Air Force Research Institute (AFRI); Thomas N. Barnes Center
for Enlisted Education; Ira C. Eaker Center for Professional Development; Jeanne M. Holm
Center for Officer Accessions and Citizen Development; Curtis E. LeMay Center for Doctrine
Development and Education; School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (SAASS); Carl A.
Spaatz Center for Officer Education

Council—IAW AUI 36-2606, the AU Academic Council provides a senior leader review of
issues impacting the university’s learning mission.     Composed of the Commanders,
Commandants, Faculty and AU Directors, it is an advisory body to the AU Commander and
President.

Emeritus—A retired faculty member who is permitted to retain as an honorary title, the rank last
held.

Quorum—The smallest number of members required to be present at a meeting in order for
decisions to be made.

Research—Purposeful, methodical and substantive inquiry undertaken to: add to the body of
literature in a discipline, prove or disprove hypotheses/answer research questions, provide an
expert, well-supported response to important questions or needs of sponsors or result in new
methods, technologies or products.

Visiting—Faculty members, including those primarily conducting research, who are at Air
University on a temporary basis.
