BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2628
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                            27 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                    AIR UNIVERSITY HONORARY DEGREES



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/CFAB                                                           Certified by: HQ AU/CF
                                                                           (Dr. Bruce T. Murphy)
Supersedes:    AUI 36-2328, 23 May 2007                                                   Pages: 4


This instruction implements AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development. It establishes procedures
for nominating, submitting, and awarding Air University (AU) honorary degrees. It applies to all
AU organizations; it does not apply to the AFRC or ANG. Refer recommended changes and/or
corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of command. This
publication directs the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974; authority: 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force; AFI 36-2301, Developmental
Education. System of Records Notice F036 AETC M, Air University Academic Records,
applies. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document incorporates changes for presenting honorary degree hoods and updates
responsibilities.
1. Authority. The approval authority to select and award honorary degrees is the Air University
Commander and President as authorized by the Secretary of the Air Force based on the guidance
and support of the AU Board of Visitors (BOV). Honorary degrees will only be awarded at the
Air University level.
 2                                                             AUI36-2628 27 DECEMBER 2011


2. General.
     2.1. Purpose. This instruction provides an honorary degree (Doctor of Letters, Doctor of
     Laws, Doctor of Science, honoris causa) to recognize individuals who have made
     extraordinary contributions in education, governmental, public service, civic, and community
     affairs; industry, commerce and labor; and the arts, letters, and sciences. The achievements
     for which the doctorate is awarded may contribute directly to the success of Air University,
     the United States Air Force, or the nation. It should be clear to those attending the ceremony
     at which the doctorate is awarded that the individual being honored is clearly one who has
     made a significant contribution.
     2.2. Responsibilities. Responsibility for awarding the honorary degree is the Air University
     Commander and President.
3. Policy.
     3.1. An honorary degree is awarded only in exceptional circumstances. No more than three
     honorary degrees will be given per year and no individual will be allowed to receive more
     than one honorary degree. Conferral of honorary degrees will normally take place during
     faculty convocations or school graduation ceremonies.
     3.2. Honorary degrees will not normally be awarded to any current (or previous) Air
     University faculty or staff, members of the AU BOV, or current holders of political office.
     3.3. A recipient of the degree is forever associated with the University and must be of
     sufficient stature to bring additional prestige to the University.
     3.4. A recipient of the degree will be referred to as Doctor at all future interactions with the
     university.
     3.5. Public announcement of the award will be made exclusively by the Air University
     Commander and President.
     3.6. A recipient of the degree will be presented with a custom-ordered Honorary Degree
     Hood during the ceremony.
4. Nomination Process.
     4.1. Nominations are accepted from center/school commanders/commandants,
     organizational directors, AU BOV, etc. AU centers and organizations are responsible for
     determining their own internal nomination processes. Nomination packages are due no later
     than 1 October of each year and must include the following information:
        4.1.1. Biographical information (such as name, current title, address and phone number).
        4.1.2. Scholarly activities (such as education, professional history, research or
        publications).
        4.1.3. Achievements or contributions to Air University, the Air Force, or the nation.
        4.1.4. One-page citation in portrait style format consisting of not more than 200 words.
     4.2. Nominations are reviewed by the AU BOV and their recommendations are provided to
     the Air University Commander and President for consideration and final selection.
AUI36-2628 27 DECEMBER 2011                                                                    3


5. AU/CFAB.
   5.1. Sends out the “call for nominations” no later than 1 August of each year to AU schools
   and organizations for nomination submissions.
   5.2. Serves as Project Officer for the honorary degree ceremony.
   5.3. Prepares memorandum from AU/CC to AETC/CC announcing honorary degree
   recipient and presentation ceremony details.
   5.4. Maintains historical records and display of recipient photos on presentation wall of AU
   Commander’s hallway.
6. AU/CFR. Prepares the official certificate and presentation folder (with framing, if necessary)
for presentation.
7. AU/PA. Coordinates with base and local media; prepares news article release; and records
ceremony (video and photography).
8. AU/CCP. Assigns an experienced Protocol Officer responsible for tasks necessary to support
an AU/CC-level ceremony (e.g. lodging reservations, reception, escort officers).




                                            DAVID S. FADOK, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            Commander and President
 4                                                       AUI36-2628 27 DECEMBER 2011


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011
AFI 36-2301, Developmental Education, 16 July 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AU—Air University
BOV—Board of Visitors
