BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2303
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                         21 DECEMBER 1995
                                                           Incorporating Change 1, 7 May 2010
                                                              Certified Current on 13 May 2013
                                                                                      Personnel

                                                        RECOGNITION OF OUTSTANDING
                                                             STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/CFAE                                          Certified by: HQ AU/CF (Dr. Bruce T.
                                                                                     Murphy)
Supersedes:   AUR 900-8, 5 August 1985                                               Pages: 4


This instruction implements AFPD 36-23, Military Education. It establishes policies and
procedures designed to give recognition to outstanding student achievement in Air University
schools. It incorporates Air Education and Training Command (AETC) policies regarding
Distinguished Graduate (DG) and Top Graduate (TG) recognition programs within AETC
schools. This instruction applies to Air War College (AWC), Air Command and Staff College
(ACSC), School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (SAASS), Air Force Institute of
Technology (AFIT), Squadron Officer School (SOS), Air and Space Basic Course (ASBC),
Officer Training School (OTS), Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC), Thomas
N. Barnes Center for Enlisted Education, Curtis E. LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and
Education, and the Ira C. Eaker Center for Professional Development. Refer recommended
changes and/or corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61/afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change: adds required language to the opening paragraph; adds/updates school
names and unit designations as necessary; updates the Forms Adopted paragraph; and corrects
grammatical errors. A margin bar indicates newly revised material.
 2                                                          AUI36-2303 21 DECEMBER 1995


1. Policy. Assignment to duty as a student in an Air University school is a significant
opportunity for professional growth and development of the student. Accordingly, students who
perform in an outstanding manner in accomplishing educational objectives of Air University
schools receive special recognition as provided in this instruction.
2. The commandants of ACSC, AFIT, SOS, ASBC, OTS, AFROTC, Barnes Center, and USAF
Chaplain’s Service Institute designate as DGs those students who have performed in an
outstanding manner in accomplishing the overall educational objectives of the respective
schools/courses. The AWC and SAASS are exempt from having a DG program. Remaining AU
schools or organizations not listed in this paragraph do not offer DG recognition.
3. Designation of Top Graduate (TG). TG is a special category of DG status identifying the
“top” student through academic achievement and commandant/faculty/staff evaluations. The TG
recognition may be named for a person, professional field, or other category. The TG will be
included in the ten percent for DGs. Each school/course has the option to recognize a TG.
4. Forms of DG Recognition.
     4.1. Announcement of DG selections and appropriate recognition during a scheduled award
     program or at the time of graduation is encouraged.
     4.2. Letters of Commendation signed by school commandants are prepared for each DG and
     sent to the graduate’s current or gaining unit commander. Where possible, the letters contain
     specific and concisely stated examples of the individual’s performance and achievement.
     4.3. When considering the costs and the significance achievement awards represent, plaques
     or trophies may be reserved for singular achievements (i.e., Best Speaker, Top Graduate)
     while certificates may be more appropriate for DG recognition. Eaker Center and OTS use
     AU Diploma 3A, Air University Diploma, for AU DG recognition (see attachment). ACSC,
     SOS, ASBC, AFROTC, Barnes Center and AFIT may use other award formats.
     4.4. To publicize individuals who are designated DGs, each school encourages designees to
     complete a DD Form 2266, Information for Hometown News Release. The forms are
     forwarded to AU/PA or AFIT/PA, as appropriate.
5. Other Forms of Recognition for Outstanding Student Achievement (All
Schools). Commandants may also use other awards or honors to recognize noteworthy
accomplishments by individual students when compatible with the objectives of the awards
program and in accordance with published directives; however, only PME programs with DG
recognition may identify student rankings (“Top Third” or “#5 of 35”). Additionally,
commandants should:
     5.1. Establish internal procedures to ensure awards are given only on the basis of
     competition and the rules of participation are announced before beginning the competitive
     timeline.
     5.2. Make maximum use of awards such as certificates, citations, and scrolls, as well as
     Letters of Commendation for outstanding achievement in the areas of skills, knowledge, and
     understanding.
     5.3. Keep to a minimum, compatible with requirements, the overall cost of awards. As a
     means to this end, maximum use should be made of permanently displayed trophies, plaques,
AUI36-2303 21 DECEMBER 1995                                                                    3


   framed photographs, etc., upon which the names of individuals being honored can be
   engraved, with a certificate issued to the individual highlighting the particular achievement.
   5.4. Ensure appropriated and non-appropriated funds are not obligated to purchase awards
   except as authorized by AFI 34-201, AFI 65-601, AFI 36-2805 and other 36-series
   instructions.
6. Form Adopted. DD Form 2266, Information for Hometown News Release; AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                            ALLEN G. PECK, Lt General, USAF
                                            Commander
4                       AUI36-2303 21 DECEMBER 1995


         Attachment 1
    SAMPLE AU DIPLOMA 3A
