BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2604
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                               29 AUGUST 2013
                                                                                        Personnel

                                                                       AU FORMAL SCHOOLS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/CFA                                   Certified by: HQ AU/CF (Dr. Bruce T. Murphy)
Supersedes AUI 36-2304, 14 March 2008                                               Pages: 11

This instruction implements AFI 36-2301, Developmental Education; AFI 36-2201, Air Force
Training Program; the US Code of Federal Regulations: 34 CFR 600.2; SACSCOC Principles of
Accrediation, Foundations for Quality Enhancement; and SACSCOC Policy on Credit Hours. It
contains information on formal education and training provided by the Air University (AU) to
military personnel and civilian employees of the Air Force and Air Reserve components, other
government agencies, and foreign governments. It complements information contained in the
Air Force Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) located at the following
URL: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/. The ETCA is prescribed by AFI 36-2201, Air Force
Training Program.

This instruction identifies responsibilities and provides guidelines and procedures for the conduct
of educational programs at AU. It applies to all AU schools and their subordinate organizations,
with the following exceptions: CCAF programs; additionally, paragraph 6 does not apply to the
Air War College (AWC), Air Command and Staff College (ACSC), School of Advanced Air and
Space Studies (SAASS), or Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT); it does not apply to the
AFRC or ANG. Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision: Updates office symbols throughout the instruction; updates policies and
procedures of the Air University Vice President of Academic Affairs (AU/CF), the Air
University Registrar (AU/CFR), as well as AU Center and AFIT responsibilities; and defines
educational terms used in this instruction that conform with 34 CFR 600.2, (Atch 2) and
SACSCOC Principles of Accrediation, Foundations for Quality Enhancement and SACSCOC
Policy on Credit Hours.
2                                                              AUI36-2604      29 AUGUST 2013

1. Purpose and Scope. This instruction provides guidance on developing, implementing and
changing courses at Air University schools. It describes the requirements for evaluating courses
for credit; it establishes the process and responsibilities for recording official student records;
and addresses disposition of working documents regarding student progress. This instruction
applies to all centers and schools at the Air University including AFIT. Individual guidance to
schools is included where appropriate.

2. Roles and Responsibilities

    2.1. Headquarters Responsibilities.

       2.1.1. Vice President of Academic Affairs (HQ AU/CF) Serves as the university point of
       contact for all matters pertaining to Air Force education and training programs
       administered by AU.

       2.1.2. Registrar (HQ AU/CFR)

           2.1.2.1. Reviews and coordinates request for approval of all new educational
           programs through AU Headquarters, Air Staff Career Field Manager, and the Air
           Force Education and Training Office.

           2.1.2.2. Provides policy and guidance on establishment of new education programs,
           deletions to existing programs and changes to existing educational programs, such as
           change in duration, title, or content.

           2.1.2.3. Provides policy and guidance on school class scheduling and lodging
           requests, and coordinates changes. Refer to AUI 36-2626, Air University Schools
           Course Scheduling and Student Production Reporting Procedures.

           2.1.2.4. In addition to other required course information, ensures requirements for
           evaluation of credit are included in staff packages for establishment of new education
           programs or changes to existing programs. Forwards information to AU/CFA for
           evaluation of credit. Required information includes:

               2.1.2.4.1. Degree, certificate, certification, diploma,       skill-level,   Special
               Experience Identifier (SEI), or other credential earned.

               2.1.2.4.2. Qualifications required of faculty members to teach each course they
               are assigned to in a program. Each course must have its own criteria against
               which the faculty member’s qualifications are evaluated. If a course is not part of
               a program, list qualification of faculty member to teach an individual course.

               2.1.2.4.3. Program (or course) level learning outcomes as applicable. Ensure
               outcomes are stated in terms of what the graduate will be able to do or know at
               completion of the program and the level of learning to which outcomes will be
               measured (application, synthesis, etc.).
AUI36-2604    29 AUGUST 2013                                                                 3

             2.1.2.4.4. Syllabi for all courses comprising the program or lesson plans for all
             lessons comprising a course.

             2.1.2.4.5. Number of contact hours students will be engaged in instruction with a
             faculty member.

             2.1.2.4.6. Number of hours of out-of-class study required for each contact hour in
             class.

             2.1.2.4.7. Description of instructional activities, such as wargames, Project X,
             oral presentations, laboratory experiments or assignments, etc. Include the
             method(s) of assessment and/or rubric(s).

             2.1.2.4.8. Description of objective test methods, such as essays, papers, multiple
             choice tests, exams, performance evaluations, projects, portfolios, laboratory
             assessments, theses, etc.

        2.1.2.5. Maintains official academic records for all AU schools, with the exception of
        AFIT and AFROTC cadet records, in the Air University Registrar Education Program
        Management (AUREPM) system. Official academic records for Career Development
        Courses are retained by AU/A3/6 in the Curriculum Development Student Assistance
        and Registration System (CDSAR). AU/CFR has access to these records and
        develops policy for management. AU/CFR uses AUREPM records to produce
        official student records and transcripts.

             2.1.2.5.1. Academic records of the Barnes Center Career Development Academy
             correspondence courses are maintained in CDSAR.

        2.1.2.6. Maintains enrollment and graduate records to include student honors where
        applicable, and records of course grades.

     2.1.3. Academic Affairs (HQ AU/CFA)

        2.1.3.1. Ensures AU policies support current standards in higher education.

        2.1.3.2. Evaluates course credit.

     2.1.4. Financial Management (HQ AU/FM).

        2.1.4.1. Manages resources to meet Air Force educational and training needs.

     2.1.5. Plans and Programs (HQ AU/A58).

        2.1.5.1. Manages Air University planning, programming, requirements, and analysis
        for accessions, education, training, and wartime mission and installation support
        activities to meet Air Force educational and training needs. Provides programmatic
        guidance to ensure there are sufficient resources to meet Air Force directed student
4                                                             AUI36-2604      29 AUGUST 2013

           production via the Program Requirements Document (PRD) or Program Guidance
           Letters (PGL).

       2.1.6. Personnel (HQ AU/A1)

           2.1.6.1. Provides guidance for the Oracle Training Administration (OTA) system.
           AU and AFIT Schools are responsible for the management of schedules and inputs
           into OTA of student status where applicable.

    2.2. Center and School Responsibilities:

       2.2.1. Center Senior Educational Administrator as designated by the AU Center
       Commander, and the AFIT Dean serves as the point of contact for all matters pertaining
       to Air Force education and training programs administered by that Center or AFIT.

       2.2.2. School/College Deans (or equivalent)

           2.2.2.1. Provide requests for additions, changes, and cancellations of educational
           programs to HQ AU/CFR. Ensure all requests for new educational programs
           submitted to HQ AU/CFR have approval of course functional managers or sponsors.

           2.2.2.2. Develop and maintain evidence that the amount of academic work required
           in degree and non-degree programs result in awarded credit hours as described in
           paragraph 3 of this instruction.

           2.2.2.3. When reviewing academic activities, consider academic discipline, level,
           delivery modes, and types of academic activities.

           2.2.2.4. For academic activities other than classroom, or direct faculty instruction
           accompanied by out-of-class work, determine whether processes and procedures
           result in reasonable equivalencies for the amount of academic work described in
           paragraph 3.1 within the framework of acceptable institutional practices at
           comparable institutions of higher education for similar programs.

3. AU Definition of a Credit Hour. A credit hour is the amount of work represented in
intended learning outcomes and verified by evidence of student achievement. It is an
institutionally established equivalency that reasonably approximates the following:

    3.1. To calculate one credit hour for a Semester/Trimester course: One hour (NOTE: Refer
    to Attachment 1) of classroom or direct faculty instruction, plus a minimum of two hours of
    out of class student work each week, for approximately fifteen weeks. E.g.: A three-semester
    hour course would have at least 3 hours of classroom instruction plus 6 hours of out of
    classroom student work each week for 15 weeks

       3.1.1. Alternatively, for a Quarter hour of credit: One hour of classroom or direct faculty
       instruction, plus a minimum of two hours of out of class student work each week, for
       approximately ten to twelve weeks.
AUI36-2604      29 AUGUST 2013                                                                  5

       3.1.2. Or the equivalent amount of work over a different amount of time; OR

   3.2. At least an equivalent amount of work as required in paragraph 3.1 for other academic
   activities as established by the institution including laboratory work, internships, practica,
   studio work, and other academic work leading to the award of credit hours.

4. Scheduling of Educational Programs. Schools/Centers should make every effort to ensure
their educational program schedules efficiently utilize resources such as classrooms, instructors,
lodging, funding, etc.

   4.1. Educational programs having greater than 100 students and of greater than 4 weeks
   duration (AWC, ACSC, OTS, and SOS) should attempt to de-conflict graduation dates
   and/or times so that multiple programs don't graduate on the same day/time with the
   following exception:

       4.1.1. Simultaneous graduations for SOS and the AF Senior NCO Academy are
       permitted as their combined educational programs necessitate both programs starting and
       ending at the same time.

   4.2. AWC and ACSC should plan at least 7 days between graduation dates to facilitate PCS
   activities etc.

5. Records of Enrollment and Scholastic Achievement. Schools develop a record for each
student enrolled in their respective resident, distance learning and correspondence academic
programs. These records must be maintained until forwarded to AU/CFR in accordance with
AUI 36-2318, Air University Registrar Services/Student Records.

   5.1. Student artifacts and course working files should be maintained for at least 18 months to
   facilitate program evaluation activities and reports IAW AUI 36-2312. The data may include
   a complete report of student performance commensurate with the evaluation system used in
   the school. The kind of information suggested may include but is not limited to:

       5.1.1. Raw scores on all achievement tests taken during the educational program.

       5.1.2. Raw scores on pretests given at the beginning of the educational program or block
       of instruction, including standardized pretests.

       5.1.3. Ratings, scores, or grades made on written requirements such as essays, research
       papers, and staff studies completed during the educational program.

       5.1.4. Ratings or grades received on speeches or other oral reports required in the
       educational program.

       5.1.5. Ratings or grades received on electives taken during the educational program.

       5.1.6. Other information that may assist in determining the quality of the student’s
       performance; for example, distinguished graduate status, participation in off-duty
       education programs, etc.
6                                                              AUI36-2604       29 AUGUST 2013

    5.2. AFIT and AFROTC maintain records in the format that meets the requirements of their
    host schools and accrediting bodies.

    5.3. For international students, AU resident schools provide the student’s original training
    report (AF Form 475, Education/Training Record) to International Officer School (IOS) for
    appropriate disposition. AFIT/IA serves as the point of contact for AFIT international
    students.

    5.4. Official academic records for career development courses are retained by AU/A3/6 and
    AU/CFR IAW AUI 36-2324, Air University Distance Learning (DL) Programs.

    5.5. Schools transfer student completions from internal databases to the official AU database
    management systems for use by AU/CFR to produce official academic record transcripts and
    other official documentation IAW AUI 36-2318.

6. Award of Course Credit to Program Instructors

    6.1. Commandants of AU schools (excluding AWC, ACSC, SAASS, and AFIT) may award
    credit for an educational program to a current instructor, provided all of the following
    conditions are met.

       6.1.1. Educational programs of 30 or more academic days duration. The individual has
       been assigned to primary duty as an instructor for 2 or more years in the program for
       which credit is being awarded or the individual has been assigned primary duty as an
       instructor and the instructor has completed all instructor certification requirements for the
       program for which credit is being awarded.

       6.1.2. Educational programs of less than 30 academic days duration. The individual has
       been assigned to primary duty as an instructor for two or more course periods in the
       program; or the individual has been assigned to primary duty as an instructor and has
       completed all instructor certification requirements in the program for which credit is
       being awarded.

       6.1.3. The individual meets all criteria listed in the Air Force Education and Training
       Course Announcements (ETCA) located at https://etca.randolph.af.mil), except being
       selected by a central board for entrance required of students normally enrolled in the
       educational program. The commandant may waive age, grade, and maximum service
       provisions in the entrance criteria for an educational program.

       6.1.4. Former instructors are not awarded credit for an educational program
       (grandfathered) without special justification.     Commandants desiring to award
       grandfathered credit for an educational program to a former instructor must submit a
       justification package through AU/CF for approval by AU/CC.

    6.2. HQ AU/CF approves requests for waiver of the above requirements. Full justification
    for waiver of the provision that an individual has been assigned primary duty as an instructor
    must be included in the package.
AUI36-2604   29 AUGUST 2013                                                               7

  6.3. After approval by the commandant of a school and by HQ AU/CF, if applicable,
  qualified faculty members are awarded a diploma and reported on appropriate rosters as
  graduated.

  6.4. Faculty members awarded faculty credit do not incur an additional active duty service
  commitment as a result of that credit.



                                                DAVID S. FADOK, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                Commander and President, Air University
8                                                            AUI36-2604        29 AUGUST 2013


                                        Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

34 CFR 600, Institutional Eligibility under the Higher Education Act of 1965

SACSCOC Principles of Accrediation, Foundations for Quality Enhancement, 1 January 2012

SACSCOC Policy on Credit Hours, January 2012 Edition

AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010

AFI 36-2301, Professional Military Education, 16 July 2010

AFI 36-2302, Professional Development (Advanced Academic Degrees and Professional
Continuing Education), 11 July 2001

AUI 16-102, International Programs, 25 May 2011

AUI 36-105, Responsibilities for Faculty Development and Enrichment, 9 February 2009

AUI 36-2301, Use of contract Instructors and Guest Speakers at AU Schools, 10 December 2009

AUI 36-2303, Recognition of Outstanding Student Achievement, 21 December 1995

AUI 36-2305, Policies on Presenting and Recording Air University Lectures, 1 December 2011

AUI 36-2308, Academic Freedom, 22 August 2008 (will convert to AUI 36-2608)

AUI 36-2310, Air University Diplomas and Certificates of Course Completion, 4 November
2008

AUI 36-2312, Air University Assessment Programs, 16 November 2011

AUI 36-2315, Student Disenrollment Procedures, 19 November 2008

AUI 36-2318, Air University Registrar Services/Student Records, 17 November 2004

AUI 36-2323, Air University Master’s Degree Admissions, 29 July 2010

AUI 36-2324, Air University Distance Learning (DL) Programs, 20 November 2008

AUI 36-2601, Wargaming, 3 April 2012

AUI 36-2609, Academic Integrity, 2 April 2012
AUI36-2604      29 AUGUST 2013                                                                 9

AUI 36-2626, Air University Schools Course Scheduling and Student Production Reporting
Procedures, 2 August 2012

AUI 36-2627, Grading and Course Numbering for Air University Degree Programs, 2 February
2012

AUI 36-2813, The Air University Education Awards Program, 14 August 2012

Adopted Forms

AF Form 475, Education/Training Record

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ACSC—Air Command and Staff College

AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology

AU—Air Uinversity

AU/CC—Air University Commander and President

AU/CF—Air University Vice President of Academic Affairs

AU/CFR—Air University Registrar

AUREPM—Air University Registrar Education Program Management System

AWC—Air War College

CDSAR—Curriculum Development Student Assistance and Reistration System

OTA—Oracle Training Administration

OTS—Officer Training School

SAASS—School of Advanced Air and Space Studies

SACSCOC—Southern Association of Colleges and School Commission on Colleges

SOS—Squadron Officer School

Terms

Accredited—The status of public recognition that a regionally recognized accrediting agency
grants to an institution or educational program that meets the agency's established requirements.
10                                                            AUI36-2604      29 AUGUST 2013

Blended Learning—A program of study that employs multiple instructional and learning
modalities including a mixture of resident and distance education; it may also include self-paced
correspondence course materials. Programs earning 75% or more of its credit hours in resident
instruction may use blended instructional modalities without notifying SACSCOC. Programs
earning 25% - 49% of its credit hours from distance education or student attendance from
alternative sites are considered a substantive change. Alternative sites include synchronous
instruction via electronic means. If a program transitions from resident to a blended approach, a
substantive change notification must be sent to SACSCOC prior to reaching 25% distance
education. See AUI 36-2317, Air University Degree Granting, Accreditation, Reaffirmation, and
Substantive Change. Correspondence portions of the curriculum will not be awarded credit
hours toward an academic degree.

Clock hour—A period of time consisting of one of the following: 1) A 50- to 60-minute class,
lecture, or recitation in a 60-minute period; 2) a 50- to 60-minute faculty-supervised laboratory,
shop training, or internship in a 60-minute period; or 3) sixty minutes of preparation in a
correspondence course.

Correspondence course—A course provided by an institution under which the institution
provides educational materials, by mail or electronic transmission, including examinations on the
materials, to students who are separated from the instructor. Interaction between the instructor
and student is limited, is not regular and substantive, and is primarily initiated by the student.
Correspondence courses are typically self-paced. f a course is part correspondence and part
residential training, the Secretary [of Education] considers the course to be a correspondence
course. A correspondence course is not distance education. Correspondence courses are not
accredited by SACSCOC.

Distance education—Education that uses one or more of the following technologies to deliver
instruction to students who are separated from the instructor and to support regular and
substantive interaction between the students and the instructor, either synchronously or
asynchronously. The technologies may include: 1) The internet; 2) one-way and two-way
transmissions through open broadcast, closed circuit, cable, microwave, broadband lines, fiber
optics, satellite, or wireless communications devices; 3) audio conferencing; or 4) video
cassettes, DVDs, and CD–ROMs, if the cassettes, DVDs, or CD–ROMs are used in a course in
conjunction with any of the technologies described in (1) through (3) of this definition.

Educational program—A legally authorized postsecondary program of organized instruction or
study that leads to an academic, professional or vocational degree, certificate, or other
recognized educational credential. The Secretary [of Education] does not consider that an
institution provides an educational program if the institution does not provide instruction itself
(including a course of independent study) but merely gives credit for one or more of the
following: a) Instruction provided by other institutions or schools; b) examinations or direct
assessments provided by agencies or organizations; or c) other accomplishments such as “life
experience.”
AUI36-2604      29 AUGUST 2013                                                                    11

Legally authorized—The legal status granted to an institution through a charter, license, or
other written document issued by the appropriate agency or official of the State in which the
institution is physically located.

Regular student—A person who is enrolled or accepted for enrollment at an institution for the
purpose of obtaining a degree, certificate, or other recognized educational credential offered by
that institution.

Teach-out plan—A written plan developed by an institution that provides for the equitable
treatment of students if an institution, or an institutional location that provides 100 percent of at
least one program, ceases to operate before all students have completed their program of study,
and may include, if required by the institution's accrediting agency, a teach-out agreement
between institutions.
