BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                      AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 33-301
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                                                                        5 AUGUST 2009

                                                                                             Communications and Information

                                                                            AIR UNIVERSITY PRESS PUBLICATIONS
                    COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:                      Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing Web page at
                                    www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY:                      There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFRI/RIL                                                              Certified by: AFRI/DV (Col Donald D. Tharp)
Supersedes AUI 37-101, 9 July 2005                                                                          Pages: 16

This instruction implements AFPD 33-3, Information Management.                       It establishes
responsibilities and policies for preparing, printing, reprinting, and distributing books and other
materials published by Air University Press (AFRI/RIL). Refer recommended changes and/or
corrections to this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims. This instruction
applies to all Air University (AU) organizations and authors who require or desire the
publication support of Air University Press. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision: reorganizes and updates content, updates office symbols, updates the membership
of the AU Publications Review Board (AU PRB), and adds Attachments 1-4.
1. Mission and Purpose .........................................................................................................             2
2. AU Press General Responsibilities ..................................................................................                      3
3. AU Press Print and Distribution Policies .......................................................................                          4
4. Government Printing Office Sales Policies .....................................................................                           5
5. Air University Publications Review Board .....................................................................                            5
6. Authors and Project Officers ...........................................................................................                  6
7. Commanders and Commandants ....................................................................................                           7
8. Forms .................................................................................................................................   7
Attachment 1 – Glossary of References and Supporting Information..............................                                               8
2                                                                                AUI 33-301          5 AUGUST 2009


Attachment 2 – AU Numbered Text Titles and OPRs........................................................                11
Attachment 3 – DD Form 282, DOD Printing Requisition/Order (Example) ....................                              12
Attachment 4 – Publishing Agreement ................................................................................   13
1. Mission and Purpose.

    1.1. As the professional publishing arm of AU and an outreach and engagement arm of the
    Air Force Research Institute (AFRI), the Air University Press (AFRI/RIL) mission is to
    provide professional publishing services to help Air Force war fighters understand and apply
    air, space, and cyberspace power. The press offers in-house editorial services of substantive
    edits and copy-editing; the pre-press production functions of design, illustrations, layout, and
    typesetting; and the services of marketing, customer service, distribution, and requisitioning
    of printing. Printing is contracted through the Government Printing Office’s Document
    Automation and Production Service (DAPS) Detachment Office, Redstone Arsenal, in
    Huntsville, Alabama, in line with DODI 5330.03, Document Automation and Production
    Service.

    1.2. AU Press primarily supports the publishing needs of the Air Force Research Institute to
    include products of AFRI professional researchers, compendiums, symposium proceedings,
    or contracted research studies; and two quarterly journals--the Strategic Studies Quarterly
    (SSQ) and the English and foreign language editions of the Air and Space Power Journal
    (ASPJ) in Spanish, Portuguese, Arabic, French, and Chinese. (See AUI 36-2321, Research
    and Publication, and AUI 36-2308, Academic Freedom, which are both available on the Air
    Force portal.) The SSQ is Air University’s flagship journal whose editor-in-chief solicits and
    promotes discussion of air, space, and cyberspace perspectives on strategy, foreign affairs,
    international security issues, and defense policy. The ASPJ is the professional journal of the
    US Air Force, first established in 1947 as a forum for advancing airpower theory, doctrine,
    and ideas. The journal has evolved into a unique publication with thematic quarterly editions
    in six languages distributed worldwide in print and electronic versions.

    1.3. AFRI/RIL secondarily supports publication of the research products of AU professional
    military education (PME) schools to include Air War College (AWC) Maxwell Papers, Air
    Force Fellows Program Walker Papers, Air Command and Staff College (ACSC) Wright
    Flyer Papers, the School of Advanced Air and Space Power Studies (SAASS) Papers, AFRI
    Drew Papers, and Fairchild Papers, which are monographs sponsored by Air University
    Press. AU Press also collaborates to publish commissioned or contractual studies of other
    agencies such as the US Air Force’s Institute of National Security Studies; the Royal Air
    Force, United Kingdom; the Air Force History and Museums Program; and papers sponsored
    by USAF senior leadership, MAJCOMs, or AF components such as the Air Force Special
    Operations Command. AU Press also publishes books selected by the AU Publications
    Review Board (see AUI 33-301) that are deemed to be of interest to AU students, faculty, or
    the Air Force at large.

    1.4. In coordination with project officers within AU PME schools, AU Press also produces
    Air University numbered texts, which are publications with assigned Air University numbers
    that are used in the resident or nonresident program of more than one Air University school.
    Current AU-numbered texts titles are AU-1, AU Style and Author Guide; AU-2, Guidelines
AUI 33-301    5 AUGUST 2009                                                                    3

   for Command; AU-3, AU Press Publications Catalog; AU-4, Listening Effectively; AU-5,
   Speaking Effectively; AU-8, AU Faculty Handbook; AU-10, Air University Catalog; AU-18,
   Space Handbook; and AU-24, Concepts for Air Force Leadership.

   1.5. Information on AU Press publications is available in hard copy as AU-3, Air University
   Press Publications Catalog, which is updated annually, and is available electronically at
   http://aupress.maxwell.af.mil and via the Air Force portal.

   1.6. Books, monographs, and papers published by AFRI/RIL range from strategy, foreign
   affairs, international security issues, and defense policy to biography, leadership, or
   psychological operations. In between are such subjects as theory, doctrine, tactics, space and
   cyberspace operations, search and rescue, peacekeeping, and history.

2. AU Press General Responsibilities:

   2.1. Reviews manuscripts for possible publication in concert with its parent organization, the
   Air Force Research Institute, and determines production schedules based on priorities
   recommended by the AU Publications Review Board (AU PRB), higher headquarters
   directives, workload, timeliness, and other factors.

   2.2. Issues Air Force publishing agreements to authors of approved projects to include AU
   faculty, active duty and retired Department of Defense officers, and all other authors
   submitting materials to AFRI/RIL.

   2.3. Consults Air University headquarters and coordinates with Air University schools to
   publish the Air University Style and Author Guide.

   2.4. Coordinates with Public Affairs (HQ AU/PA) and sponsoring agencies to ensure
   security and policy review in compliance with AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and
   Procedures, and AUI 36-2321, Research and Publication, for all publications intended for
   release to the general public.

      2.4.1. Reviews all manuscripts received from sources external to Air University and
      sends manuscripts accepted for publication to HQ AU/PA for security and policy review
      with a recommendation of public release and dissemination.

      2.4.2. Does not normally edit, design, or print classified or sensitive materials.

   2.5. Secures cataloging in publication (CIP) data from the Muir S. Fairchild Research
   Information Center (MSFRIC) and pricing information from the Government Printing Office
   (GPO).

   2.6. Assigns International Standard Book Numbers (ISBN) and International Standard Series
   Numbers (ISSN), as appropriate.

   2.7. Maintains a listing of AU-numbered texts and coordinates with schools and agencies to
   identify the OPR, revision cycle, number of books required, date last printed, and date of
4                                                                 AUI 33-301       5 AUGUST 2009

    next projected printing.     Attachment 2 lists current numbered text titles and their
    corresponding OPRs.

    2.8. Edits, designs, and publishes AU-numbered texts and manuscripts approved by the AU
    PRB using funds from the Air University Press print budget—a subset of AFRI’s budget.

    2.9. Prepares and submits DD Form 282, DOD Printing Requisition/Order (Attachment 3),
    to the DAPS at Redstone Arsenal, Huntsville, Alabama.

3. AU Press Print and Distribution Policies.

    3.1. Normally, each initial print run is 5,000 copies for new books; 1,500 copies for new
    monographs; and as required by PME schools for AU numbered texts.

    3.2. Following manuscript publication, sends three copies of each new or revised publication
    to MSFRIC (AUL/LD).

    3.3. Obtains contracted warehousing and shipping services for all AUP publications through
    HQ AU A4/6.

    3.4. Provides limited distribution of publications without charge, including shipment by
    fourth-class mail, to the parties listed in Figure 3.1.

        Figure 3.1. Distribution Recipients Without Charge
        Active duty, retired, and reservist military personnel of any branch of the Services
        Civilians and contractors employed by the Department of Defense who need these
        publications for employment-related purposes
        Cadets attending the Air Force Academy
        AU PME schools
        Individuals and organizations on the Press automatic distribution list
        Civil Air Patrol (CAP) instructors attending events at Maxwell AFB

    3.5. The following restrictions apply when providing publications to these specific parties:

       3.5.1. A 10-title limit per individual, per visit to the Press bookstore or per Internet order.
       Personnel may acquire additional titles by making request to Chief, Services Branch
       (AFRI/RILS). Bookstore employees will maintain a ready stock of AU Form 3, Air
       University Press Book Request, for personnel visiting the bookstore. The AU Form 3
       serves several purposes: visitors use it to indicate the titles they wish to obtain;
       employees use it to help adjust and maintain title inventory; and it serves as a customer
       survey.

       3.5.2. Officers attending the International Officer School (IOS) may receive publications
       without charge, but they will pay for shipping from the allowance provided by IOS.

       3.5.3. Authors of Press publications normally receive 25 copies free and may purchase
       additional copies with a 25 percent discount.
AUI 33-301       5 AUGUST 2009                                                                  5

      3.5.4. Authors may submit a distribution list of 25 or fewer addresses for the Press to
      ship without charge. The RIL Division Chief or a designated representative will approve
      additional copies.

      3.5.5. AU schools will be provided multiple copies when stock allows. Schools should
      make requests for 25 or more titles to the AFRI/RILS.

4. Government Printing Office Sales Policies.

   4.1. As an exclusive sales agent of the Government Printing Office (GPO), AU Press
   provides publications for sale at GPO prices to the general public. There is no shipping or
   handling charge. Books costing over $100 receive a 25 percent discount.

   4.2. Multiple copies of publications for use in Sister Service schools (including AFROTC)
   are sold at cost via DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request. Another
   option for these organizations is to fund their own printing requirements by completing DD
   Form 282 and coordinating the print process with AFRI/RILS.

   4.3. AFROTC, AFJROTC, CAP cadets, and CAP organizations are not eligible for free
   materials. They may purchase materials through GPO or fund their own printing
   requirements by completing DD Form 282 and coordinating the print process with
   AFRI/RILS.

5. Air University Publications Review Board.

   5.1. General

      5.1.1. Convenes on a quarterly basis or as requested by or via the PRB Coordinator.

      5.1.2. Reviews and approves all manuscripts for publication by AFRI/RIL and other
      projects directed by the AFRI Operations Director or by higher headquarters.

      5.1.3. Evaluates manuscript content, projected customer interest, value to the Air Force,
      and other appropriate factors.

      5.1.4. Through a majority of its members accepts, rejects, or recommends revision of
      manuscripts for publication. In the case of revisions, the board provides a written critique
      to the author listing the required and recommended changes.

      5.1.5. Identifies book and monograph topics of special interest to the Air Force and
      national security experts.

      5.1.6. Identifies prospective authors and solicits manuscripts for possible publication by
      Ai University Press.

   5.2. Chair.

      5.2.1. Chief Academic Officer, HQ AU/CF
6                                                                AUI 33-301     5 AUGUST 2009

    5.3. Members.

       5.3.1. Dean, Air Force Research Institute (Presiding Officer)

       5.3.4. Dean of Academic Affairs, Community College of the Air Force, CCAF/DF

       5.3.5. Dean for Research, Graduate School of Engineering & Management, Air Force
       Institute of Technology, AFIT/ENR

       5.3.6. Dean of Academic Affairs, ECPD/EA

       5.3.7. Assistant Professor Strategy & Leadership, AWC/DEL, Spaatz Center

       5.3.8. Professor of Military History, SAASS/AS

       5.3.9. Chief Academic Officer, Squadron Officer College, SOC/CAE

       5.3.10. Director of Regional Studies, Air Command & Staff College, ACSC/DEI

       5.3.11. Dean of Educational Programs Cadre, Barnes Ctr/CA

6. Authors and Project Officers.

    6.1. Obtain copyright releases through procedures outlined in AFI 51-303, Intellectual
    Property–Patents, Patent Related Matters, Trademarks and Copyrights, for any copyrighted
    material in the manuscript. Provide copies of all copyright releases to the Chief, Editorial
    Branch, AFRI/RILE.

    6.2. Submit manuscripts according to the Air University Press Author and Style Guide and
    the AFRI/RIL Publishing Agreement (Attachment 4).

    6.3. ARFI/RIL Division Chief and school project officers review AU-numbered texts
    periodically to evaluate the need for revisions or the need to write new ones. Revisions of
    existing AU-numbered texts are normally justified if the content has become obsolete or if
    the curriculum has changed. OPRs cited in Attachment 2, AU Numbered Text Titles and
    OPRs, should respond to AU Press notification to prepare text updates in line with revision
    cycles given in the Textbook Status Report.

    6.4. Potential authors, project officers, and originating or sponsoring AU agencies
    submitting materials to AFRI/RIL for editing, publication design, and final printing must
    certify in writing that the materials are free of classified and sensitive information (such as
    personal data or extracts from inspection reports or safety investigations) and that they
    recommend public release and dissemination. (See AFI 35-101, chapter 15, “Security and
    Policy Review” and AUI 36-2321.) Originators must provide AU Press copies of their
    recommendations and the response from HQ AU/PA (and higher headquarters policy and
    security reviews if required) regarding the request for clearance.
AUI 33-301    5 AUGUST 2009                                                                   7


7. Commanders and Commandants.

   7.1. Provide funds to reprint publications to meet curriculum requirements if sufficient
   quantities are not available in the Air University Press inventory.

   7.2. Request Air University Press services as early as possible in the development stage of
   new or revised AU-numbered texts. Designate a project officer with responsibility for
   developing such material.

   7.3. Ensure authors and project officers obtain copyright releases or permissions before
   using copyrighted materials. See paragraph 6.1.

   7.4. Ensure subject matter experts review all materials before submitting them to Air
   University Press for editing, design, and publication. Each sponsoring AU school,
   organization, or agency must ensure this review includes a determination of possible
   inclusion of classified and/or sensitive information.

   7.5. Submit a letter to the AU Press Division Chief (AFRI/RIL) in concurrence with the AU
   PRB, requesting assignment of an AU number for prospective AU-numbered texts. Letters
   should contain full justification for publication. Send a copy of the approved request to
   AFRI/RILE.

   7.6. Store, maintain, and control disposition of any publication used by the school or agency
   in excess of those required for AFRI/RIL inventory and automatic distribution.

   7.7. Maintain a record set of each printed AU-numbered textbook created by the school and
   ensure that records are maintained and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
   Disposition Schedule.

8. Forms.

   8.1. Prescribed: AU Form 3, Air University Press Book Request.

   8.2. Adopted: DD Form 282, DOD Printing Requisition/Order; DD Form 448, Military
   Interdepartmental Purchase Request; AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
   Publication.



                                                   ALLEN G. PECK
                                                   Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                   Commander, Air University
8                                                              AUI 33-301   5 AUGUST 2009


                                        Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 35-101, Air Force Public Affairs Policies and Procedures

AFI 51-303, Intellectual Property—Patents, Patent Related Matters, Trademarks and Copyrights

AUI 36-2321, Research and Publication

The Chicago Manual of Style, Fifteenth Edition

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ACSC—Air Command and Staff College

ACSC/DE—Dean of Academic Affairs, Air Command and Staff College

ACSC/DEI—Director of Regional Studies, Air Command and Staff College

AFI—Air Force Instruction

AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology

AFIT/ENR—Dean for Research, Graduate School of Engineering & Management, AFIT

AFJROTC—Air Force Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps

AFMAN—Air Force Manual

AFPD—Air Force Policy Document

AFRI/CL—Director, Air Force Research Institute

AFRI/DV—Operations Director, Air Force Research Institute

AFRI/RIL—Division Chief, Air University Press Division, Air Force Research Institute

AFRI/RILD—Design Branch, Air University Press Division, Air Force Research Institute

AFRI/RILE—Editorial Branch, Air University Press Division, Air Force Research Institute

AFRI/RILE—Services Branch, Air University Press Division, Air Force Research Institute

AFRI/RIR—Chief of Research, Research Division, Air Force Research Institute

AFROTC—Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps
AUI 33-301    5 AUGUST 2009                                                              9

ASPJ—Air and Space Power Journal

AU—Air University

AUL/LD—Director, Muir S. Fairchild Research Information Center

AUP—Air University Press

AU/PA—Air University Public Affairs, Office of Policy/Security Review

AU PRB—Air University Publications Review Board

AWC—Air War College

CAP—Civil Air Patrol

CCAF/DF—Dean of Academic Affairs, Community College of the Air Force

CEPME/CA—Dean of Educational Programs Cadre, College of Enlisted Professional Military
Education

DAPS—Document Automation and Production Service Detachment Office

ECPD/EA—Dean of Academic Affairs, Eaker College for Professional Development

GPO—Government Printing Office

HQ AU/CF—Chief Academic Officer, Headquarters Air University

HQ AU/CFA—Office of Academic Affairs, Headquarters Air University

HQ AU/CFR—Office of the Registrar, Headquarters Air University

HQ AU A4/6—Headquarters Air University

HQ AU/PA—Office of Public Affairs, Headquarters Air University

ISBN—International Standard Book Numbers

ISSN—International Standard Series Numbers

LeMay/EA—Educational Advisor, LeMay Center

MAJCOM—major command

OPR—Office of primary responsibility

PME—Professional Military Education

SAASS—School of Advanced Air and Space Power Studies
10                                                               AUI 33-301     5 AUGUST 2009

SAASS/CF—Vice Dean of Research, School of Advanced Air and Space Power Studies

SOC/CAE—Chief Academic Officer, Squadron Officer College

Spaatz/CF—Dean of Academic Affairs, Spaatz Center

SSQ—Strategic Studies Quarterly

USAF—United States Air Force

Terms

Air University Press—The press provides professional publishing services to help Air Force
war fighters understand and apply air, space, and cyberspace power issues.

Air University Publications Review Board (AU PRB)—An authoritative body tasked with
reviewing and approving manuscripts for publication by Air University Press. The board is
chaired by the AU Chief Academic Officer (AU/CF) or a designated representative. The PRB
members include the AFRI Dean (presiding officer)), an Air Force Institute of Technology
(AFIT) representative, and AU Center and PME school representatives.

AU Numbered Text—A text with an assigned Air University number used in resident or
nonresident programs of more than one Air University school.

Automatic Distribution—A one-time initial distribution of new Air University Press
publications made to a standard list of addressees.

AU Style and Author Guide—An Air University-designed and AU commander-approved style
reference for all Air University writers and for all authors submitting materials to Air University
Press. It is based on the most current civilian publishing norms, especially those found in The
Chicago Manual of Style, and is used to standardize all publications, including Internet materials,
produced by Air University and to describe the editorial, design, and publication processes.
AUI 33-301    5 AUGUST 2009                                                   11



                                    Attachment 2

                      AU NUMBERED TEXT TITLES AND OPRS

             Number           Title                               OPR
             AU-1             AU Style and Author Guide           AFRI/RILE
             AU-2             Guidelines for Command              ACSC/DE
             AU-3             AU Press Publications Catalog       AFRI/RILS
             AU-4             Listening Effectively               AFRI/RILS
             AU-5             Speaking Effectively                AFRI/RILS
             AU-8             AU Faculty Handbook                 HQ AU/CFA
             AU-10            Air University Catalog              HQ AU/CFR
             AU-18            Space Primer                        AWC/DFW
             AU-24            Concepts for Air Force Leadership   ECPD/EA
12                                        AUI 33-301   5 AUGUST 2009



                          Attachment 3

     DD FORM 282, DOD PRINTING REQUISITION/ORDER (EXAMPLE)
AUI 33-301       5 AUGUST 2009                                                                           13


                                             Attachment 4


                                   PUBLISHING AGREEMENT
This is a formal agreement between the United States Air Force (termed “Air Force” hereafter)
and __[name]__ (termed the “Writer” hereafter) to publish ___[publication type]___ (termed,
the “Work” hereafter) and titled, ___[title]___. The Writer agrees to abide by the terms and
conditions set forth below. The agreement is effective as of __[date]__.

1. Engagement and Relationships: The Air Force agrees to publish, and the Writer licenses the Air
Force to publish the Work under the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement.

2. Compensation: The Writer will receive no monetary compensation of any kind from the Air Force

3. License: In exchange for publication and distribution of the Work at no cost to the Writer, the Writer
grants the Air Force a permanent, non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free license to publish and
distribute the Work, in whole or in part, to Department of Defense personnel, both military and civilian,
in whatever quantities and at whatever times the Air Force determines is necessary for the education of
Department of Defense personnel. The Air Force agrees that it shall not distribute the work to any person
not affiliated with the Department of Defense.

4. Retention of Copyright: Nothing in this agreement shall be interpreted to transfer the Writer’s
ownership of the Work to the Air Force. The Writer shall retain all rights to the Work not transferred to
the Air Force under this agreement. The Air Force agrees to include language in any volume or other
media containing the Work stating that the Writer retains ownership of the Work and all rights granted
under 17 U.S.C. §106, except those rights which have been granted to the Air Force under this agreement.

5. Format: The Air Force may, without limitation, publish the Work in hard copy and in electronic or any
other media format and in any language.

6. Publication Costs: The Air Force will pay full costs for the publication of the Work for distribution to
Air Force personnel, including the initial run of the Work and any reprints or additional runs the Air
Force, in its sole discretion, elects to produce.

7. Development of the Work: The Air Force reserves the right to edit, or otherwise modify the Work as
the Air Force deems appropriate. As part of its normal preparation for publication the Air Force will
typically (1) perform substantive and copy edits of the manuscript along with other quality control
measures to conform to Air University Press standards and style; (2) design front and back covers; (3)
create or further develop graphics to support the narrative content of the Work; (4) schedule reprints of
the work (5) distribute the Work to addresses on its standard distributions list. Check all of the following
that apply:

 The Air Force will perform a substantive edit of the Work.

 The Air Force will perform a copy edit of the Work.

 The Air Force will design a cover for the Work.
14                                                                      AUI 33-301       5 AUGUST 2009

 The Air Force will create graphics for the Work.

 The Air Force will prepare the Work for printing; complete a DD Form 282, Print Requisition; then
return the Air Force package to the Writer.

 The Air Force will not distribute the Work.

8. Obligations: The Writer agrees to coordinate with the Air Force by responding promptly to inquiries
or requests for materials within 10 working days after the Air Force makes a request but no longer than 20
working days unless extenuating circumstances, deployment, or other unforeseeable circumstances
warrant an extension to 30 working days. The Air Force will have no obligation to publish the Work
when the Writer does not respond to inquiries or requests within 90 working days or when DOD, AETC,
AF, or AU policy or command decisions preclude publication.

9. Delivery and Acceptance of the Work: The Writer agrees to deliver to the Air University Press the
complete and final manuscript for the Work no later than ___[date]___. The Writer shall deliver the
original Work inclusive of illustrations, charts, graphs, and any other material satisfactorily to the Air
University Press in a double-spaced hard copy, along with a diskette/CD in Microsoft Word, and in
accordance with guidelines in AU-1, Air University Style and Author Guide. If the Writer fails to deliver
a complete or satisfactory manuscript by the date above, the Air Force will have the right, at its discretion,
to extend the date of publication or to terminate this agreement. For reprint editions of previously
published works by other publishers, the Writer (or Editor) may deliver or the Air Force will obtain the
latest printing of a publication from which to produce the reprint edition. The Air Force will also address
and secure any copyright releases required from previous publishers to allow reprinting of the Work by
the Air Force.
10. Writer Affirmations: The Writer affirms that the Work will be original, will not infringe upon any
copyright protections, and will not contain plagiarized text or graphics, specifically as indicated by
checking each of the following statements:

 The content of the Work is accurate, based on sound research practices, and constitutes a complete
manuscript with all front matter, narrative text, graphics, and back matter included at submission—with
the exception of an index, which the Air Force will create in the final production stage and for which the
author may be requested to provide a seed list.

 Should the Air Force determine during preliminary review or after acceptance for publication that the
Work contains material of which the Writer is not the writer or proprietor, the Writer agrees to obtain
permission to reproduce such material at no expense to the Air Force and to provide copies of the
permission(s) to the Air Force within the time periods specified in paragraph #6 above.

 The Work contains no recipe, formula, or instruction that if applied could cause readers personal harm
or injury.

 The Work in no way infringes on the right of privacy of any person or entity, including organizations,
institutions, copyright holders, or others, as a result of plagiarism, libel, slander, or any other misuse of
material included in the original Work.

 The work does not contain profane language or quotations containing profane language.

 The work contains no classified or restricted information.
AUI 33-301      5 AUGUST 2009                                                                          15

11. Academic Freedom: The Air Force encourages and defends the rights of both students and faculty in
accordance with Air University Instruction (AUI) 36-2308, Academic Freedom. The Air Force advocates
the right of the Writer to exercise full freedom of literary investigation and expression. Only the
adherence to security classification limits the Writer’s freedom to expound upon subject matter of the
Work, as long as the Writer maintains accuracy and respects the proprietary rights of others. Further, the
Air Force endorses all established practices of academic freedom as stated in the AU Faculty Handbook
and AUI 36-2308, Academic Freedom. The Air Force will not publish profanity but will revise or
otherwise rework the narrative to indicate the use of expletives in quotations. Air University Public
Affairs is the security and policy review authority for all information and material concerning military
matters available for release.

12. Writer’s Name and Likeness: The Writer agrees that the Air Force shall have the right to use the
Writer’s name, likeness, and biographical materials concerning him/her in the original Work, in revised or
derivative editions, or in Air Force advertisements or promotional materials.

13. Writer’s Copies: Upon publication of the first printing of the Work, the Air Force shall provide the
Writer--without cost--up to 50 copies of the Work. The Air Force will send the Writer up to 25 personal
copies of the Work at an address the Writer specifies to the distribution clerk and up to 25 copies to
addressees on a mailing list the Writer provides to the Air Force. Additional copies will be provided on a
case-by-case basis at the RIL Division Chief’s discretion.

Entire Agreement: This document constitutes the Agreement between the parties and supersedes any
other promises, conditions, understandings or terms, whether oral or written. Any addenda to this
Agreement must be modified in writing and signed by the Writer (or a representative of the Writer) and
parties at the Air Force.
                                                   For the Air Force by:

_______________________                            _______________________


Writer’s Signature (Date)                          Editorial Branch Chief (Date)
                                                   Air University Press



                                                   _______________________

                                                   RIL Division Chief (Date)

                                                   Air University Press
16                                                                       AUI 33-301       5 AUGUST 2009


                                            Definition of Terms

Back Matter — Elements following the main text of a book. In order, they include appendix(es),
chronology (if not in front matter), abbreviations (if not in front matter), glossary, bibliography, list of
contributors, and index(es).

Copy Edit — A process concerned with the mechanics of written communication. It refers to consistency
in capitalization, spelling, hyphenation, numbers, documentation, formatting of the document in
accordance with the press’s house standards, and so forth. It also encompasses attention to grammar,
syntax, and basic usage.

Cover Design — The process of preparing illustrative material or decorative patterns for reproduction on
the outer binding of a book, accomplished by Air University Press illustrators in consultation with the
book’s author.

Create — To bring into existence something new by means of imaginative skill or other action, as in the
production of original graphics or textual material (e.g., an illustration’s cover or an index).

Distributions List — A roster of names and addresses of individuals and institutions to whom Air
University Press sends it publications. The term refers to both the press’s standard list of recipients as
well as a custom list provided by the author.

Front Matter — Elements preceding the main text of a book. In order, they include the title page,
copyright page, dedication, epigraph, table of contents, list of illustrations, list of tables, foreword, about
the author [Air University Press publications], preface, acknowledgments (if not part of preface),
introduction (if not part of text), abbreviations (if not part of back matter), and chronology (if not in back
matter).

Graphics — Products of pictorial art, such as paintings, drawings, and so forth, used especially for
illustrating or decorating printed matter.

Narrative — The written representation of an event, a story, or an account.

Plagiarism — Entails appropriating the literary composition of other people, parts or passages of their
writings, or the ideas or language of the same, and using them as one’s own. Copying verbatim without
quotation marks with the intent to claim that material as one’s own constitutes plagiarism, as does the
intentional use, without credit, of a source’s sentence structure and style with only minor changes.

Prepare/Develop — To make ready for use, put together in a certain form, create, or produce, especially
as related to the preparation/development of a publication.

Substantive Edit — A process concerned with the organization and presentation of content. It includes
rephrasing to eliminate ambiguity, reorganizing or tightening, simplifying, recasting, and so forth.
