BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 35-102
AND PRESIDENT AIR UNIVERSITY
(AETC)                                                                                 9 JULY 2012

                                                                                      Public Affairs

                                                          ENHANCING THE AIR UNIVERSITY
                                                                 BRAND IDENTIFICATION




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AU/PA                                                                     Certified by: AU/PA
                                                                         (Lt Col Linda K. Haseloff)
                                                                                            Pages: 5




This instruction implements AFPD 35-1, Public Affairs Management. It directs the Air
University centers, schools and units to use the officially designated ‘Prop and Wings’ logo on
all publications, banners, brochures and other presentation and promotional materials when
presenting lectures, hosting symposia, etc. In addition, it directs the proper use of the reference to
The Air University. Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This publication applies to
all personnel assigned to The Air University. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.


1. Use of “The” with Air University. In official correspondence, OPRs/EPRs/Awards &
Decorations, background papers, and similar official documents, the name will remain Air
University. In unofficial documents, i.e., PowerPoint® presentations, business cards, AU PATV
productions, base newspaper articles and similar outreach media, The Air University and the
 2                                                                      AUI35-102 9 JULY 2012


Props & Wings will continue to be used. If in doubt as to which to use, Air University is always
appropriate.
2. Use of The Air University Logo. The Air University’s official ‘Prop and Wings’ logo
should be displayed in a position of prominence on all publications, conference materials, slides,
banners, etc. School, center or unit logos may be added in a subordinate position. The logo may
be used in the form of the banner or stamp as appropriate. The focus should be on The Air
University when selecting font size, placement and prominence (Attachment 2).
3. Business Cards. The Air University business card is the official business card template and
will be used when representing oneself as an employee of The Air University (Attachment 2).
     3.1. The only authorized changes to the official template are those to personal information
     such as name, duty title and contact information. No substitutions or additions are
     authorized.
     3.2. Cards may be printed using US government printers and supplies for the estimated
     number of cards needed for official use only.
     3.3. Cards may be printed at personal expense for general use but may not be presented or
     given under circumstances that reflect poorly on the US Air Force or The Air University.
4. Slides. Slides required by HQ AU for AU/CC, HQ AU directorates, and AETC meetings and
briefings should follow official slide templates and guidelines published by The AU
Commanders’ Action Group and maintained on The AU SharePoint® site (Attachment 2).
Centers/Schools may substitute their own shield for the AU Shield in the upper right corner
when use of the HQ/AU slides is not mandated.
5. Implementation. This instruction is effective immediately with all new publications,
websites, curriculum, and presentation materials. Full implementation should be complete at the
end of the normal curriculum or product/publication revision cycle. It is not expected that
centers, schools and units revise existing materials except where feasible, unless they are still in
use at the end of the normal revision cycle.




                                              DAVID S. FADOK, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              Commander and President
AUI35-102 9 JULY 2012                                       3


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 35-1, Public Affairs Management, 17 September 1999
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviation and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AU—The Air University
 4                                                      AUI35-102 9 JULY 2012


                                        Attachment 2
                          THE AIR UNIVERSITY LOGO USE

Figure A2.1. The Air University „Prop and Wings‟ Logo




Figure A2.2. The Air University Business Card




Figure A2.3. The Air University Slide
AUI35-102 9 JULY 2012                                                            5




 Enhancing AU Brand Identity

           Lt Col Linda Haseloff, AU Public Affairs




Figure A2.4. AU SharePoint® Site for Templates

https://maxpoint.maxwell.af.mil/sites/au/cc/AU%20Templates/Forms/AllItems.aspx
