BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2315
HQ AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                                                               19 NOVEMBER 2008

                                                                                                                                  Personnel

                                                                     STUDENT DISENROLLMENT PROCEDURES
                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSABILITY:                     Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
                                   www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY:                     There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/CFAC                                                        Certified by: HQ AU/CF (Dr. Bruce T. Murphy)
Supersedes AUI 36-2315, 6 May 2005                                                                        Pages: 24

This instruction implements AFI 36-2301, Professional Military Education, and the Air Force
Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA), and addresses AFPD 36-23, Military
Education. It provides guidance for disenrollment of students attending Air University (AU)
professional military education (PME) schools, professional continuing education (PCE), and
graduate education (GE) schools, through in-residence or nonresident (distributed/distance
education) programs, and officers and officer trainees attending Officer Training School.
Disenrollment guidance for Enlisted Professional Military Education (EPME) schools is found in
the USAF EPME Procedural Guidance published under authority of AFI 36-2301. This
instruction supersedes the AETC/ED Policy Letter on Disenrollments, dated 22 Feb 00. It
expands on the disenrollment guidance in the ETCA. ETCA can be found on-line at:
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/. It does not apply to recall or withdrawal of students, which is
covered in ETCA. Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims. This instruction
applies to all Air University schools and courses except as noted herein.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision corrects the address in paragraph 13.5.10 for sending disenrollment packages on
federal civilian students. Also included is an E-mail address for sending packages electronically.
A new paragraph (14) has been added on Revocation of diplomas and/or degrees. Other changes
have also been made throughout this instruction. Due to the substantial number of changes
made, individuals should review it in its entirety.

1.   General...........................................................................................................................   2
2.   Procedures and Definitions ..........................................................................................                4
3.   Disenrollments for Misconduct ...................................................................................                    4
2                                                                                     AUI 36-2315              19 NOVEMBER 2008


4.    Disenrollment with Prejudice ......................................................................................                  5
5.    Suspensions Pending Disenrollment Proceedings ......................................................                                 5
6.    Administrative Elimination .........................................................................................                 5
7.    Administrative Elimination Procedure.......................................................................                          6
8.    Summary Disenrollment ..............................................................................................                 6
9.    Faculty Board Review ..................................................................................................              9
10. When to Use a Faculty Board ......................................................................................                    10
11. Membership of Faculty/Review Boards......................................................................                             10
12. Faculty Board Disenrollment Procedures ..................................................................                             11
13. Post-Disenrollment Disposition ...................................................................................                    12
14. Revocation .....................................................................................................................      14
15. Forms .............................................................................................................................   15
Attachment 1–GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
             INFORMATION .........................................................................................                        16
Attachment 2–SAMPLE NOTICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE ELIMINATION ............                                                                     21
Attachment 3–SAMPLE APPOINTMENT OF REVIEW OFFICER ...........................                                                             22
Attachment 4–SAMPLE SUMMARY DISENROLLMENT MEMORANDUM ..........                                                                           23
Attachment 5–SAMPLE NOTICE OF SUMMARY DISENROLLMENT
             ACTION MEMORANDUM ......................................................................                                     24
1. General. Disenrollment is the permanent removal of any enrolled Air University student
from a course or school before its completion, by any means other than a recall. Disenrollment
may be, but does not have to be, accompanied by expulsion, which is the student’s physical
removal from AU schools as well as disenrollment from academic credit programs.
Disenrollment of students is an administrative action and does not affect an individual’s service
status. However, the decision to disenroll may raise the question of whether further retention of
the student in the Air Force or on active duty is in the best interest of the Air Force. Therefore,
the person initiating action should consider all of the evidence in the case file and determine
whether other actions may be indicated. In such circumstances, commanders are encouraged to
swiftly pursue other appropriate actions, when warranted, concurrently with disenrollment
action. If the guidance provided in this instruction conflicts with higher headquarters guidance,
higher headquarters guidance takes precedence. A glossary of terms and acronyms used in this
instruction is at Attachment 1.

     1.1. Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) Students. Disenrollment of
     AFROTC cadets is accomplished under the provisions of DODI 1215.8, Senior Reserve
     Officer Training Corps Programs, AFI 36-2011, Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps,
     and AFI 36-2012, Record of Disenrollment from Officer Candidate-Type Training – DD
     Form 785.
AUI 36-2315     19 NOVEMBER 2008                                                                 3

   1.2. Officer Training School (OTS) Students. Disenrollment of Basic Officer Training
   (BOT) trainees is accomplished using this instruction in conjunction with relevant portions of
   AFI 36-2013, Officer Training School (OTS) and Enlisted Commissioning Programs, and
   AFI 36-2012, Record of Disenrollment from Officer Candidate-Type Training – DD Form
   785. Disenrollment of Commissioned Officer Training (COT) and Reserve Commissioned
   Officer Training (RCOT) students is accomplished using this instruction in conjunction with
   AFI 36-2022, Commissioned Officer Training and AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted
   Evaluation Systems.

   1.3. Air War College (AWC), Air Command and Staff College (ACSC), School of
   Advanced Air and Space Studies (SAASS), Squadron Officer College (SOC), Ira C. Eaker
   College for Professional Development (ECPD), LeMay Center for Air Force Doctrine
   Development and Education, or the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) students
   (including Civilian Institution (CI) students). Disenrollment of students from AWC, ACSC,
   SAASS, SOC, ECPD, LeMay Center, and AFIT schools is accomplished using this
   instruction and relevant operating instructions of the respective school/Center or college. If a
   school/Center develops operating instructions (OI) to supplement this AUI, the school/Center
   must have those OIs reviewed by AU/CF and AU/JA to ensure consistency and compliance
   with this AUI, which trumps any conflicting guidance in school/Center procedures.

   1.4. Technical Training Students. Disenrollment of technical training students, (which
   includes all courses that award an AFSC/SDI), is accomplished under the provisions of
   AETCI 36-2215, Training Administration, as supplemented by career field functional
   managers.

   1.5. International Students. Before initiating any type of disenrollment action against an
   international student, notify AU/IA, who will make notifications required by AFJI 16-105,
   Joint Security Assistance Training (JSAT), paragraphs 10-36 and 10-117. All faculty boards
   concerning international students should include AU/IA (or an AU/IA delegate) as a non-
   voting member. After consulting with AU/IA and AU/JA, commandants may recommend
   disenrolled international students continue in audit status until the end of the academic year
   to help satisfy Field Studies Program objectives. In this case, the international student will
   be disenrolled from the formal academic (diploma) program but will not be expelled from the
   college. AU/IA will make appropriate notifications in any case.

   1.6. Enlisted Students. Disenrollment and Academic/Disciplinary Review Board guidance
   for EPME schools is found in the USAF EPME Procedural Guidance published under
   authority of AFI 36-2301. The Barnes Center for Enlisted Professional Military Education
   must notify AU/CF and AU/JA when disenrollment actions are taken or if changes are made
   to EPME Procedural Guidance relative to disenrollment policy.

   1.7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Guidance on disenrollment of enrollees
   from CCAF degree programs is provided in CCAFI 37-1.

   1.8. Disenrollment guidance for First Sergeant Academy (FSA) students is found in FSA
   Procedural Guidance and is used in lieu of this instruction. FSA must notify AU/CF and
4                                                        AUI 36-2315      19 NOVEMBER 2008

    AU/JA when disenrollment actions are taken or if changes are made to FSA Procedural
    Guidance relative to disenrollment policy.

2. Procedures and Definitions. All Air University commandants, their functional equivalents,
Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) school deans and the squadron commanders of the
OTS training squadrons for Commissioned Officer Training (23 TRS/CC) and Basic Officer
Training (24 TRS/CC) are designated as appointing authorities. For purposes of this instruction,
whenever commandant is used, that term is intended to include the functional equivalent of the
school/Center commandant/commander for each Air University school/Center, regardless of the
actual title used in the particular school/Center, and the AFIT deans. The appointing authority
initiates disenrollment. Appointing authorities should seek legal advice before initiating any
disenrollment action and must seek legal advice for misconduct-based actions. For cases in
which an AFIT student is being considered for disenrollmentAFIT personnel should seek advice
from AFIT/JA. Disenrollment issues related to Basic Officer Training (BOT) or Commissioned
Officer Training (COT) (to include Reserve Commissioned Officer Training) requiring JA
advice or review will address Holm Center/JA in lieu of AU/JA for all instances in this
instruction.

    2.1. Types of Disenrollment. This instruction authorizes three disenrollment procedures:
    administrative elimination, summary disenrollment with or without expulsion, and faculty
    board action (described in paragraphs 6, 8, and 9, respectively). The faculty board uses
    procedures prescribed in AFI 51-602, Boards of Officers. Further information on each of
    these disenrollment procedures is described below.

    2.2. Pre-Disenrollment Notification. Commandants must advise HQ AU/CF, AU/JA, and, in
    the case of international students, HQ AU/IA before initiating action that could result in the
    disenrollment of students from their programs. Exception: OTS will coordinate with Holm
    Center/JA as required for BOT and COT disenrollments. The notifications required by this
    section include the following information: student name, grade, Social Security number, a
    brief summary of reasons for the proposed action, and the owning or gaining unit (if known).

    2.3. Delegation of Authority. In the absence of the commandant, the deputy commandant
    may initiate disenrollment actions and may approve disenrollments to the same extent that
    commandants may do so under paragraphs 7.1, 8.9 and 12.10 of this instruction. OTS/CC
    may delegate approval authority for administrative elimination disenrollments from BOT to a
    level no lower than 24 TRS/CC.

    2.4. Body Composition Improvement Program (BCIP). Commanders, Superintendents, or
    Commandants of Air University schools/Centers will align fitness testing standards with AFI
    10-248, Fitness Program. Failure of students to meet or maintain Air Force fitness standards
    could constitute grounds for elimination/disenrollment from an AU school/college.

3. Disenrollments for Misconduct. Commandants must consult with AU/JA (or AFIT/JA for
AFIT students) before beginning an investigation that could lead to disenrolling a student for
misconduct. Misconduct includes but is not limited to failing to meet standards of academic
integrity or professional responsibilities as a student; for example, plagiarism or cheating,
consistent late or missing homework, missed appointments with faculty or staff, or clearly not
AUI 36-2315     19 NOVEMBER 2008                                                              5

applying oneself toward satisfying course completion or graduation requirements.
Commandants should evaluate all available facts to determine if other administrative action
(including possible separation) or UCMJ action is appropriate. Commandants are encouraged to
swiftly pursue other appropriate actions, when warranted, concurrently with disenrollment
action.

4. Disenrollment with Prejudice. Upon determining that a student should be disenrolled for
misconduct, the commandant may recommend to AU/CC whether or not to disenroll the student
with prejudice. AU/CC makes the final decision to approve or modify the commandant’s
recommendation. When the nature of a student’s misconduct is so egregious that it clearly fails
to meet the minimum standard of behavior and integrity demanded of Air University students,
disenrollment should be with prejudice. Such students are not allowed to reenroll in the course
unless AU/CC states on the disenrollment notice that the student may reenroll in a distance
learning version of the course or grants the student a reprieve. Students granted reprieves from
disenrollments with prejudice may reenroll in a future class of that course/school, upon such
conditions as that commandant deems fit. (NOTE: This paragraph does not apply to
precommissioning programs. The issue of suitability for reenrollment into a precommissioning
program is addressed in AFI 36-2012.)

5. Suspensions Pending Disenrollment Proceedings. Pending disenrollment proceedings, the
commandant may suspend a student being considered for disenrollment, if it is in the best
interest of the school. Notify the student in writing of a suspension.

6. Administrative Elimination. Commandants should administratively eliminate students
(either disenroll or deny enrollment) who fail to meet minimum administrative eligibility
standards. This procedure may also apply when a student has submitted a written waiver of a
faculty board or has requested to be disenrolled, except in misconduct cases, which should be
processed as disenrollments. The following are examples of when administrative elimination is
appropriate:

   6.1. A student does not meet school eligibility requirements, including, but not limited to,
   those set forth in section 4.2 of the Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA)
   for officers or section 5.1 for enlisted airmen.

   6.2. A student is being separated or retired from the Air Force for reasons not related to
   school status.

   6.3. An AFIT Civilian Institute (CI) student has been disenrolled or has dropped out of a CI
   under circumstances clearly beyond the student’s control.

   6.4. A student has made a written request to withdraw from a school/course because of
   hardship or other personal reason. (See paragraph 7.4 for further direction on processing
   hardship disenrollments.)

   6.5. The student cannot perform required duties for an extended period, including attending
   class, due to physical or medical reasons beyond the student’s control. Although a faculty
   board is not required in these circumstances, the commandant may choose to hold one to help
   determine whether a student can fulfill graduation requirements. The school should obtain a
6                                                        AUI 36-2315     19 NOVEMBER 2008

    statement from the military treatment facility when medical incapacity, mental health
    conditions, pregnancy, or terminal illness is involved. The commandant may accept a
    statement from a civilian medical facility.

    6.6. A student enrolled in a distributed education program has failed to fulfill academic
    requirements within the time allotted. In such cases, the administrative elimination process
    may be completed electronically and the use of AU Form 747, Record of Administrative
    Action, is not required. The AU Form 747 is used to document administrative action taken
    against students by school/Center commandants or their designees.

7. Administrative Elimination Procedure.

    7.1. The commandant designates any commissioned officer, senior in rank to the student, to
    initiate or review administrative elimination actions. The process is initiated by completing
    Section I of AU Form 747. The form is then forwarded to the commandant, who completes
    Section II as the approval authority. Section III is left blank. Do not use the AU Form 747
    for BOT disenrollments or for administrative disenrollment of students in distributed
    education programs as described in paragraph 6.6.

    7.2. The school provides the student with a notice of administrative elimination and sends a
    copy to the parent unit commander. If the student is on Maxwell AFB, the memorandum is
    hand-delivered to the student. Otherwise, the memorandum is sent by certified mail, return
    receipt requested. A sample notice format is at Attachment 2.

    7.3. The original AU Form 747 is used by school/Center personnel to document the
    disenrollment and to take any further dispostion action deemed necessary.

    7.4. For TDY students, the commandant reviews and forwards endorsements of all requests
    for hardship disenrollment to the parent unit of the student concerned. Each endorsement
    must contain a recommendation for approval or disapproval and any other comments deemed
    appropriate. Forward an information copy to HQ AU/CFA. For international students, also
    forward each request to HQ AU/IA who forwards it through appropriate channels for
    approval or disapproval. For OTS students, OTS/CC will review all requests for hardship
    disenrollment and coordinate with the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) when applicable.

8. Summary Disenrollment. Summary disenrollment is used in non-elimination cases where
the facts can be determined without a formal Board of Inquiry. This procedure may be used in
misconduct cases, academic deficiency cases and other situations where the commandant
determines there are sufficient facts to allow a thorough review. Before initiating disenrollment
for misconduct, the commandant must consult with AU/JA and AU/IA if applicable. The
commandant’s decision is final except in cases involving misconduct. In each misconduct case,
whether the school/Center commandant recommends retention or disenrollment, AU/CC reviews
and makes the final approval or disapproval decision. Holm Center/CC will review and provide
final approval or disapproval when OTS student misconduct cases referenced throughout this
instruction.

    8.1. Procedure. Upon being notified of possible grounds for disenrollment of a student, the
    commandant (or AFIT dean in purely academic cases) may initiate disenrollment action
AUI 36-2315     19 NOVEMBER 2008                                                                 7

   personally, appoint a review officer, or appoint a review committee made up of two or more
   members. The vice commandant or commandant may appoint a review officer in the
   commander’s absence. Additionally, a commandant or commander may verbally appoint a
   review officer and complete the written appointment letter later, if the need arises. A sample
   appointment memorandum is at Attachment 3. The purpose of a review officer or a review
   committee is to conduct any needed inquiry, review the evidence and make recommendations
   to the commandant or AFIT dean about the future status of the student. If a review
   committee is appointed, the highest-ranking member of that committee shall be designated
   the “review officer.”

      8.1.1. A review officer acting alone shall be a commissioned officer who outranks the
      student subject to being disenrolled, unless the student being considered for disenrollment
      is a civilian, in which case a review officer acting alone may be a civilian.

      8.1.2. A review committee considering disenrollment of a military member may be made
      up of any combination of commissioned officers, chief master sergeants, and senior
      master sergeants, provided each member outranks the student subject to being
      disenrolled. A review committee considering disenrollment of a civilian must include at
      least one civilian.

      8.1.3. In a purely academic case, an academic review committee may assess a student’s
      probability of succeeding and provide recommendations (for example, “get-well”
      proposal, disenrollment, etc.) to the commandant or AFIT dean. If the case involves an
      AFIT student, the commandant or AFIT dean may appoint any school staff member who
      outranks the student as the review officer and review committee members.

   8.2. Disenrollment with or without expulsion. Generally, disenrollment should include
   expulsion, that is, the physical removal of the student from AU programs. In unusual
   circumstances, the commandant or commander may disenroll a student from the academic
   credit portion of the course (including any master’s or other advanced degree program) but
   allow him or her to audit the remainder of the course. In such rare situations, the student will
   be allowed to remain at Maxwell, attend classes and participate in other school activities but
   will not receive a certificate of completion or a diploma.

   8.3. The review officer first reviews this instruction and the available information
   concerning grounds for disenrollment, including any relevant school records. The review
   officer then seeks a legal briefing from AU/JA.

   8.4. The review officer and review committee (if applicable) may interview witnesses
   determined to be appropriate, including the student being considered for disenrollment (after
   advising of Article 31 rights, if applicable. NOTE: In a misconduct case, Article 31 rights
   advisement will usually be required before interviewing the student in question). Upon
   interviewing a witness, the review officer prepares a summarized statement of that witness’
   testimony and obtains the witness’ signature on that summary.

   8.5. Based on the review of available evidence and information from any additional inquiry
   (if needed) and consultation with the review committee (if applicable), the review officer
8                                                        AUI 36-2315      19 NOVEMBER 2008

    prepares a report for the commandant or AFIT dean. The report should set out the facts,
    discuss the evidence and make a recommendation for action. Use AU Form 747 as a cover
    sheet for the report (except for BOT disenrollments; contact 24 TRS/DO for guidance).
    Documentary evidence relevant to the action, including any witness interview summaries,
    should be attached to the report.

    8.6. To recommend summary disenrollment, the review officer prepares a student
    notification memorandum for the commandant or AFIT dean’s signature. A sample notice
    format is at Attachment 4. Provide the student with a copy of the disenrollment investigation
    (absent the legal review) with the notification memo. The student has a right to submit
    written matters on his or her behalf to the commandant or AFIT dean by a set time and date
    (at least 3 duty days for local students and 7 duty days for distance education students.) The
    student also has a right to request a personal appearance before the commandant, commander
    or dean. U.S. military students are entitled to consult with the Area Defense Counsel (ADC)
    as well. The ADC may also assist foreign military students on a space-available basis. If the
    student requests more time to respond, the commandant or AFIT dean may, at his or her
    discretion, extend the time to submit matters. The student should submit his request in
    writing, and the commandant should provide the student with a written response outlining the
    new deadline.

    8.7. If the commandant or AFIT dean concurs with the review officer’s recommendation or
    otherwise determines that summary disenrollment is appropriate, he or she provides a
    Summary Disenrollment Memorandum (Attachment 4) to the student. If the student is on
    Maxwell AFB, the memorandum is hand-delivered to the student. Otherwise, the
    memorandum is sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, or the commandant may
    coordinate with the student’s commander (e.g., for distance learning students) to serve the
    notice on the student.

    8.8. After the time for submitting matters has expired or after considering any written
    matters submitted by the student, the commandant or AFIT dean completes Section II of AU
    Form 747, and forwards the disenrollment package to AU/JA for review. The disenrollment
    package should include an AU Form 747 with Section I and II completed, the Student
    Notification Memorandum, indorsed by the student, the disenrollment investigation and any
    matters submitted by the student.

    8.9. After legal review, AU/JA returns the disenrollment package to the school commandant
    for final action (in cases not involving misconduct), or forwards it to AU/CC (in misconduct
    cases).

       8.9.1. In AFIT cases based purely on academic performance, the AFIT dean is the final
       decision authority for decisions to retain a student. In such cases, the AFIT dean
       completes Section II of AU Form 747 and leaves Section III blank. However, if the
       AFIT dean determines that a student should be disenrolled, he or she completes Section II
       of AU Form 747 and forwards the report to the AFIT Commandant. The AFIT
       Commandant then completes Section III of the form as the final approval authority. In all
       other cases, the school/Center commandant makes the decision on student disenrollment,
       subject to review and AU/CC approval in misconduct cases.
AUI 36-2315     19 NOVEMBER 2008                                                              9

       8.9.2. In misconduct cases, the school/Center commandant completes Section II of AU
       Form 747 concurring or noncurring with the review officer. Also, the commandant
       should mark the appropriate boxes expressing his or her decision on whether the student
       is allowed to reenroll in the course or school, and if so, under what conditions. If the
       commandant recommends disenrollment without expulsion, he or she must explain why
       this student’s case is so unusual that it justifies departing from the norm. The
       commandant must document this justification on the continuation page (Page 2) of the
       AU Form 747.

       8.9.3. In cases not involving misconduct, the school/Center commandant is the final
       approval authority. In such cases, the commandant completes Section II of AU Form 747
       and leaves Section III blank.

       8.9.4. In cases involving misconduct, after the commandant completes Section II of AU
       Form 747, the disenrollment package is forwarded to AU/CC for final decision, whether
       the school/Center commandant recommends retention or disenrollment. Students do not
       have the right to a personal appearance before AU/CC, although he or she always has the
       discretion to grant one. The AU/CC completes Section III of AU Form 747 as the final
       approval authority, and returns the disenrollment package to the initiating commandant
       thru AU/JA.

       8.9.5. AU/CC must act on all substantiated disenrollment actions based on misconduct
       even if the school/Center commandant recommends retention. EXCEPTION: This
       requirement does not apply in cases where the review officers find no misconduct
       occurred, the commandant or commander agrees, and the student is never served with a
       notice of disenrollment. If the school/Center commandant recommends retention of a
       student in misconduct cases, the commandant must provide an information copy of the
       retention decision to AU/CC and AU/JA. Holm Center/CC may serve as the final
       approval authority for BOT disenrollments. AU/CC maintains oversight of AFOATS
       disenrollments by receiving periodic updates from AFOATS/CC.

   8.10. Finally, the commandant provides the student with a written notice of action. (See
   sample at Attachment 5). If the student is on Maxwell AFB, the memorandum is hand-
   delivered to the student. Otherwise, the memorandum is sent by certified mail, return receipt
   requested, or may be served on the student by his or her current commander. The
   commandant ensures that school/Center personnel take appropriate disposition action as
   provided in paragraph 13.

9. Faculty Board Review. The purpose of a faculty board is to determine facts and make
recommendations to the commandant or commander on matters referred to the board. A faculty
board involves a formal hearing and provides the student a forum to present his or her position.
The proceeding is conducted in accordance with AFI 51-602 (also applies to civilians). A
student may waive a faculty board by submitting a written waiver to the commandant that
convened the board. The board recommendation is not binding on the commander or
commandant.
10                                                        AUI 36-2315      19 NOVEMBER 2008

10. When to Use a Faculty Board. A faculty board is appropriate whenever:

     10.1. The review officer’s inquiry has failed to provide sufficient facts for the decision or
     approval authority to make a decision about disenrollment.

     10.2. board is needed to determine whether an academic deficiency resulted from factors
     within the student’s control. Although faculty boards are not required in cases that are based
     solely on academic deficiencies or substandard performance affecting academic achievement,
     the commandant or AFIT dean may determine that a faculty board is warranted in such cases
     to determine whether the deficiency is within the student’s control.

     10.3. The commandant or commander, including the AU/CC, decides it is appropriate and
     directs a faculty board be convened.

11. Membership of Faculty/Review Boards. With the assistance of AU/JA, the commandant
issues a convening order that designates who shall serve as board members for a faculty board.
Board members may be drawn from staff personnel assigned to Air University, AFIT school
faculty, and personnel from other base organizations (upon approval of the potential board
member’s commander). Because AFIT's Civilian Institution (CI) Programs do not employ local
AFIT faculty, review boards established to consider dismissal of a student in one of the CI
programs will be composed of AFIT staff members identified by the Dean of the Civilian
Institutions Programs (However, only the AFIT commandant—not AFIT deans—may convene a
faculty board under this AUI.) By virtue of this composition, AFIT CI Programs refer to the
process as a "review board" rather than a "faculty board." A faculty board must have at least
three voting members. It should also include a legal advisor and a recorder (the government
representative), who are non-voting members. A faculty board may include other non-voting
members such as an educational advisor and other advisors as deemed appropriate. In cases
involving disenrollment of international students, the faculty board must also include HQ AU/IA
(or delegate) and the Air Force Security Assistance Team (AFSAT) country liaison (if
appropriate) as non-voting members. Board members may be a combination of commissioned
officers, enlisted members, and civilian officials, within the following limitations:

     11.1. Military board members must be senior in rank to the student being considered for
     disenrollment. If the student is an enlisted member, he or she may request that at least one-
     third (1/3) of the board members be enlisted. The request must be in writing. When
     possible, enlisted members should come from the school’s faculty or staff. While in certain
     cases, the commander or commandant may need to appoint members from outside the
     school, a majority of the board must be faculty members. The board president must also be a
     faculty member.

     11.2. Board membership consists solely of military personnel when the student being
     considered for disenrollment is military (except in disenrollments from AFIT).

     11.3. In the case of AFIT students being considered for disenrollment, board membership
     consists of faculty members from within the schools and may be either civilian or military.
     Also eligible to sit on the boards are the Director of Academic Affairs, Director of
     Admissions, and the various Deans of AFIT schools. (EXCEPTION: The dean of the
AUI 36-2315    19 NOVEMBER 2008                                                               11

   school from which the student is being disenrolled does not serve as a member of the faculty
   board).

   11.4. When civilian students are considered for disenrollment, at least one member of the
   board must be a civilian.

12. Faculty Board Disenrollment Procedures. The procedures for a faculty board are
described in AFI 51-602, with additional guidance as described in this subsection.

   12.1. Upon determining that a faculty board is appropriate, the commandant completes
   Section I of AU Form 864, Record of Faculty Board Action, and forwards it, with any
   attachments to AU/JA. AU/JA arranges for a legal advisor, recorder, military defense
   counsel (for military students) and a court reporter. The AU Form 864 is used to document
   administrative action taken against students by faculty boards convened by school/Center
   commandants or their designees.

   12.2. The commandant chooses at least three voting board members to serve on the faculty
   board. If more than three voting members are desired, the total number should always be an
   odd number in order to avoid voting ties. The faculty board is convened by written order,
   drafted by AU/JA, and signed by the commandant. The order designates the name, rank and
   organization of each board member and describes the purpose and duties of the board.

   12.3. Before the board meeting, the recorder provides a written notification to the student
   (called the respondent) as prescribed in AFI 51-602, paragraph 1.2.2. The recorder is also
   responsible for ensuring witnesses are available for the hearing, swearing in the witnesses,
   presenting testimony through the government witnesses, presenting relevant documentary
   evidence, providing each board member and the defense counsel with a copy of the hearing
   format (script), and preparing the hearing room.

   12.4. The faculty board hearing is conducted in accordance with AFI 51-602, using guidance
   and a hearing format provided by AU/JA.

   12.5. The legal advisor must be a judge advocate, at least equal in rank to the student. He or
   she makes rulings on issues of law and instructs the board members on the law to be
   followed.

   12.6. The senior ranking military member of the faculty board is the board president. That
   person is in charge of the proceedings, subject to the legal rulings and instructions provided
   by the legal advisor. A civilian or enlisted member cannot serve as board president.

   12.7. After hearing and reviewing all of the evidence, the voting board members meet
   together in private to discuss the evidence. The voting board members then vote by secret
   written ballot. The board president either counts or designates another voting member to
   count the ballots. A majority of the voting members must agree on the recommendation.
   Once a majority agrees upon a recommendation, the board president records the vote.
12                                                       AUI 36-2315     19 NOVEMBER 2008

     12.8. The court reporter prepares a formal record of the board proceedings in accordance
     with AFI 51-602. Normally, a summarized transcript is all that is required. The AU staff
     judge advocate must approve requests for a verbatim transcript. The court reporter or the
     recorder completes Section II of AU Form 864, ensures the board president signs the form
     and places it in the front of the record. The reporter then forwards the record to the
     commandant or commander who convened the faculty board.

     12.9. In AFIT academic performance cases, the AFIT dean has authority to make decisions
     to retain the student. In such cases, if the student is retained, the AFIT dean completes
     Section IV of the AU Form 864 and leaves Section III blank. Only AFIT/CC makes final
     decisions to disenroll AFIT students for academic performance. In such cases, the AFIT
     dean completes Section III as the appointing authority. The record is forwarded to AFIT/JA
     to review and make recommendations regarding legal sufficiency. The record is forwarded
     to AFIT/CC, who completes Section IV as the approving authority, and returns the record to
     the AFIT dean for implementation.

     12.10. In all faculty boards other than AFIT academic performance cases, the school/Center
     commandant or commander reviews the board recommendation and completes Section III of
     AU FORM 864 as the appointing authority. He or she forwards the record to AU/JA.

        12.10.1. AU/JA reviews the record and recommendation to determine legal sufficiency.
        AU/JA prepares a written legal review for AU/CC and a formal notification of decision
        addressed to the student for AU/CC’s signature.

        12.10.2. AU/JA forwards the record, legal review, and proposed student notification to
        AU/CC for final decision.

        12.10.3. Finally, AU/CC completes Section IV of AU Form 864 as the approving
        authority, signs the student notification and returns the record to the school/Center
        commandant for disposition.

     12.11. In all disenrollment cases, the student is provided with a formal notification of the
     approving authority’s decision.

13. Post-Disenrollment Disposition. Upon disenrolling a student for any reason, the school
from which the student was disenrolled takes prompt action to return TDY students to their home
units, to have PCS students reassigned or discharged, and to document the disenrollment action
in the student’s personnel file. All training reports will clearly state explicit reasons for
disenrollment. The Certificate of Attendance annotation will be added to the reports of those
students allowed to continue in audit status. COT students are reassigned to 42 ABW or unit of
assignment (as appropriate) for discharge processing. BOT students are reassigned or
discharged.

     13.1. Notification Requirements. Whenever students are disenrolled or eliminated at any
     time before graduation, notify the parent organization, HQ AU/FMA and AU/DP as
     applicable, giving full details, including disposition.
AUI 36-2315    19 NOVEMBER 2008                                                                13

   13.2. Disposition of TDY Students. TDY students who are disenrolled or eliminated for
   various reasons before enrollment are processed as follows:

      13.2.1. If a TDY student reports for a course and is found ineligible due to failure to
      meet eligibility requirements set out in ETCA, paragraph 4.2, established Air Force
      standards or other published prerequisites in education, job position, age, grade, security
      clearance, etc., the student is not enrolled. The student is promptly returned to his or her
      unit without censure, at the parent unit’s expense. Notify the parent unit to amend travel
      orders reflecting the TDY charge to the fund cite of the parent unit. However, if the
      ineligibility can be easily corrected (for example, personal appearance standards), the
      commandant may choose to order the student to promptly correct the deficiency instead
      of returning the student to his or her parent unit.

      13.2.2. COT students who arrive enroute to their first permanent duty station and fail to
      meet an established eligibility requirement may still be enrolled in COT. This permission
      is granted only on a case-by-case basis after coordination among 23 TRS/CC, the gaining
      unit commander, and the appropriate personnel manager for the officer’s functional area.
      The final decision to disenroll or remain enrolled will be determined by the OTS/CC.

   13.3. Disposition of PCS Students. PCS students disenrolled from courses are reported for
   immediate reassignment as follows:

      13.3.1. AFIT reports directly to HQ AFPC by message or E-mail.

      13.3.2. Air War College (AWC) and Air Command and Staff College (ACSC) report to
      the Military Personnel Flight (42 MSS/DPM).

   13.4. Disposition of International Students. AU Director of International Affairs (HQ
   AU/IA) is responsible for coordinating and advising disposition instructions with SAF/IA
   and AETC/IA for all international students. Commandants may allow disenrolled
   international students to continue in an “audit” status to fulfill Field Studies Program
   objectives. In this case, disenrolled international students would not face expulsion from the
   respective college but would remain as “audit-only” students. All requirements of paragraph
   8 of this instruction apply in such cases.

   13.5. Distribution of Disenrollment Record. Within 15 calendar days of a final decision to
   disenroll a student (except a BOT trainee), the commandant forwards a copy of either
   AU Form 747 (for administration of summary disenrollment) or AU Form 864 (for faculty
   board disenrollments) to the following offices as are applicable (NOTE: 24 TRS/DO will
   manage BOT trainee disenrollments):

      13.5.1. For all students (except BOT), send one copy to HQ AU/CF.

      13.5.2. For international students, send a copy to HQ AU/IA.

      13.5.3. For TDY students, send one copy to the student’s unit or squadron commander.
14                                                        AUI 36-2315      19 NOVEMBER 2008

        13.5.4. Send one copy to the student’s flight commander or equivalent, if any, at the
        school.

        13.5.5. For AFIT students, send one copy to HQ AFPC, Randolph AFB, TX 78150, and
        one copy to HQ AU/FMA.

        13.5.6. For AWC and ACSC students, send one copy to 42 MSS/DPM.

        13.5.7. For Air National Guard students, send one copy to ANGSC/TET, Andrews AFB
        MD 20331-5000, and to the student’s State Adjutant General (for mailing address, see
        AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications, Chapter 9).

        13.5.8. For Category A Reserve students, send one copy to HQ AFRES/DPTIS, Robins
        AFB GA 31098-5000.

        13.5.9. For Category B Reserve students, send on copy to HQ ARPC/DPMPO, Denver
        CO 80280-5000.

        13.5.10. For civilian federal employees, send one copy either by mail to AFDW/A1CT,
        110 Luke Ave, Suite 300, Bolling AFB DC 20032, or by E-mail to:
        AFDW.A1CT@bolling.af.mil.

        13.5.11. Distribute additional copies to other organizations, if appropriate, on a need-to-
        know basis. This information is subject to the Privacy Act and should not be released
        except for official purposes.

     13.6. Maintaining Disenrollment Records. The school/Center keeps faculty board records
     and summary disenrollment records for 10 years (in accordance with the Air Force Records
     Information Management System (AFRIMS) Table 36-38, Rule 5). Faculty board and
     disenrollment records are available for review in the event a student, disenrolled with
     prejudice, requests reprieve to be allowed to reenroll. BOT submits disenrollment documents
     (UPRG/AF Form 100/DD Form 214/ and a copy of the DD Form 785) to the Air Force
     Personnel Center (AFPC/DPSAMR) and also sends another copy of the DD Form 785 to
     AFPC/DPSAMI. These records are submitted to AFPC/DPSSRR, who retains them in the
     Automated Records Management System (ARMS) for 75 years. For this reason, BOT is
     exempted from this 10-year retention requirement.

14. Revocation. Revocation is the process of rescinding credit for a PME or academic degree
program after the student has already completed the course and graduated. Revocation is
appropriate when the misconduct or other deficiency occurred during the program’s term but
wasn’t discovered until after course completion. Commandants should initiate revocation when
the underlying basis, if known, would have justified disenrollment. Follow the same procedures
as those outlined for disenrollment. AU/CC must approve recommendations for revoking an
AU-conferred academic degree. To revoke an academic degree (e.g., associate’s, bachelor’s,
master’s, doctorate), ensure that all procedures required by the regional accrediting body, if any,
are also followed.
AUI 36-2315   19 NOVEMBER 2008                                                        15


15. Forms.

   15.1. Adopted: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

   15.2. Prescribed: AU Form 747, Record of Administrative Action; AU Form 864, Record of
   Faculty Board Action.



                                               ALLEN G. PECK
                                               Lieutenant General, USAF
                                               Commander, Air University
16                                                       AUI 36-2315   19 NOVEMBER 2008


                                        Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

Uniform Code of Military Justice

Education and Training Course Announcements

DoDI 1215.8, Senior Reserve Officer Training Corps Programs

AFJI 16-105, Joint Security Assistance Training (JSAT)

AFI 10-248, Fitness Program

AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications

AFI 36-2011, Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps

AFI 36-2012, Record of Disenrollment from Officer Candidate-Type Training—DD Form 785

AFI 36-2013, Officer Training School (OTS) and Enlisted Commissioning Programs

AFI 36-2022, Commissioned Officer Training

AFI 36-2301, Professional Military Education

AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems

AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge Procdures for Commissioned Officers

AFI 36-3208, Administrative Discharge of Airman

AFI 51-602, Boards of Officers

AETCI 36-2215, Training Administration

AUI 36-2309, Academic Integrity

Acronyms

ABW—Air Base Wing

ADC—Area Defense Counsel

AETC—Air Education and Training Command

AFCAT—Air Force Catalog
AUI 36-2315    19 NOVEMBER 2008                              17

AFI—Air Force Instruction

AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology

AFROTC—Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps

AFSAT—Air Force Security Assistance Training Squadron

AU—Air University

ASBC—Air and Space Basic Course

ACSC—Air Command and Staff College

AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code

AWC—Air War College

BOT—Basic Officer Training

CI—Civilian Institute

CF—Chief Academic Officer for Air University

CFA—Office of Academic Affairs for Air University

CC—Commander or Commandant

CCAF—Community College of the Air Force

COT—Commissioned Officer Training

DE—Developmental Education

DP—Director of Personnel

ETCA—Air Force Education and Training Course Announcements

FSA—First Sergeant Academy

FSP—Field Studies Program

GE—Graduate Education

HQ—Headquarters

IA—International Affairs

JA—Judge Advocate
18                                                      AUI 36-2315     19 NOVEMBER 2008

JSAT—Joint Security Assistance Training

MAJCOM—Major Command

NJP—Nonjudicial Punishment

OTS—Officer Training School

PCE—Professional Continuing Education

PCS—Permanent Change of Station

PME—Professional Military Education

FMA—Financial Management Analysis

RCOT—Reserve Commissioned Officer Training

SAF—Secretary of the Air Force

SDI—Special Duty Identifier

SSN—Social Security Number

SOS—Squadron Officer School

TDY—Temporary Duty

UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice

XP—Plans and Programs

Terms

Appointing Authority—For purposes of this instruction, the appointing authority is the
school/Center commander or commandant or AFIT dean who is authorized to appoint
investigating officers or boards to conduct reviews into the potential grounds for disenrollment
of a student from an Air University school/college. All appointing authorities other than AFIT
deans may also convene faculty review boards.

Audit—Allowing students to attend courses and participate in school activities without receiving
academic credit towards a diploma or degree.

Commandant—For purposes of this instruction, commandant is used to refer to the
school/Center commander or commandant who is authorized to: Appoint faculty boards, initiate
summary disenrollment actions, appoint review officers for summary disenrollment actions, and
designate officers to initiate administrative eliminations.
AUI 36-2315     19 NOVEMBER 2008                                                                19

Disenroll—To permanently remove an enrolled student from a course or school prior to its
completion, by any means other than a recall. Disenrollment may be accompanied by expulsion
(see “expulsion” definition below) or the student may be allowed to remain and audit courses
(see “audit” definition).

Distance Education—Formal courses that a school or a contractor develops for export to a field
location or directly to the student in place of resident training. It includes private study, video
teleseminar (VTS), video teletraining (VTT), computer-based education (CBE), and web-based
education (WBE).

Eligibility Requirements—Minimum administrative standards or prerequisites that a student
must meet to be entered into a class or to be retained in a class. These standards may be set by
the school/Center, the parent unit or the Air Force. If a student does not meet or maintain these
standards, he or she may be administratively eliminated from the class as provided in Part I,
Section A of this instruction. For purposes of this instruction, eligibility requirements do not
include the academic performance requirements for the class in which the student is currently
enrolled.

Elimination—Permanently remove a student or prospective student from training, whether by
faculty board, summary disenrollment or administrative elimination, either before or after
registration.

Enrollment—The process by which eligible prospective students complete all necessary
administrative or other requirements that result in their being officially included in that
instructional program. Each Air University school/Center defines and publishes its specific
enrollment requirements in appropriate local operating instructions or policies.

Expulsion—The process of physically removing a student from a particular college or course.

Faculty Board—Formal disenrollment board of inquiry that follows the procedures set out in
AFI 51-602, Boards of Officers, except as otherwise provided in this instruction. The purpose of
a faculty board is to make findings and recommendations to the school/Center official
concerning a student’s future status in the school. Since AFIT Civilian Institution (CI) Programs
do not employ local AFIT faculty, their boards are composed of selected AFIT staff members.
Consequently, for AFIT CI Programs, the term “review board” replaces “faculty board” as
applicable throughout this instruction.

Misconduct—Any action that could be a crime under the UCMJ, including but not limited to
plagiarism and cheating as defined by AUI 36-2309, Academic Integrity. Apply this same
standard when considering disenrollment of civilians and international students, even though
they are not subject to the UCMJ.

Prejudice—A characterization of disenrollment that affects a student’s future eligibility to enroll
in the particular course or school from which the student is disenrolled. When disenrolled with
prejudice, a student will not be allowed to reenroll in any version of the course or school he or
she is disenrolled from unless a commandant either expressly states on the disenrollment notice
that the student may reenroll in a distance learning version of the course or school or grants the
student a reprieve.
20                                                        AUI 36-2315      19 NOVEMBER 2008

Professional Military Education (PME)—Education in resident courses in one of the
Department of Defense colleges or in one of the resident or nonresident courses of the Air
University that improves an individual’s general qualifications and ability in military science and
tactics.

Recall—Removing a student from training by higher headquarters, the student’s parent
organization, or by the student’s home country. A recall may also be called a withdrawal.

Revocation—The process of rescinding academic credit and/or degree status after a student has
already completed the course.

School/Center Official—For purposes of this instruction, a school/Center official is the
school/Center commander, commandant, director, or AFIT dean, who is authorized to: appoint
faculty boards, initiate summary disenrollment actions, appoint review officers for summary
disenrollment actions, and designate officers to initiate administrative eliminations.
EXCEPTION: AFIT deans may not convene faculty boards under this AUI. Only the AFIT
commandant may do so. AFIT deans may take all other actions listed above.

Technical Training—Training in one or more of the tasks in an Air Force specialty description
conducted in formal schools, field training detachments, and through organized on-the-job
training programs. Technical training is distinguished from flying and basic military training.
AUI 36-2315     19 NOVEMBER 2008                                                              21


                                         Attachment 2

               SAMPLE NOTICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE ELIMINATION


                                                                                 [Date]


MEMORANDUM FOR [Rank and Name of Student]

FROM: [School/Center Official’s Office Symbol]

SUBJECT: Notification of Administrative Elimination

        Pursuant to AUI 36-2315, Student Disenrollment Procedures, I have eliminated you from
[school and class] because of [state general reason]. Specifically, [if applicable, describe what
the student did or did not do that was the basis for the disenrollment, and why that conduct is
either not acceptable or otherwise makes the student ineligible to continue in the class]. You
should retain this menorandum for your records.



                                     [Signature Block of Commandant or Designated
                                     Representative]
22                                                        AUI 36-2315      19 NOVEMBER 2008


                                          Attachment 3

                     SAMPLE APPOINTMENT OF REVIEW OFFICER

                                                                                   [Date]

     MEMORANDUM FOR [Rank and Name of Review Officer/Review Committee Members]

     FROM: [Office Symbol of Appointing Authority]

     SUBJECT: Letter of Appointment

     1. You are appointed to conduct a review into the potential grounds for disenrollment of
     [rank and name of student] from [school/course] and to make a recommendation whether
     disenrollment or other action is appropriate in this case. I have reason to suspect that [rank
     and name of student] has [describe reason for proposed disenrollment]. You should refer to
     AUI 36-2315, Student Disenrollment Procedures, paragraph 8, in conducting your review.

     2. As part of your review, you are authorized to conduct an informal inquiry, if needed, to
     make your recommendations. You are expressly authorized to obtain and review any
     materials you determine are relevant. You may also interview relevant witnesses, including
     [rank and name of student]. However, you must seek a briefing from AU/JA (AFOATS/JA
     in the case of OTS students; AFIT/JA for AFIT students) before beginning the investigation.

     3. At the conclusion of your review, you will provide a written report to me with your
     findings, conclusions, and recommendations.       Include AU Form 747, Record of
     Administrative Action (not prescribed for BOT), with Section I completed, and any other
     documentation relevant to making a student status determination as attachments to your
     report. If you recommend summary disenrollment, you should also attach a proposed
     Summary Disenrollment Memorandum, directed to the student, for my signature. A sample
     memorandum is available at Attachment 4 to AUI 36-2315.

     4. Your review and report should be concluded no later than [date]. If you need additional
     time, you may request it from me. You should direct any questions regarding the conduct of
     the review or your report to AU/JA (AFOATS/JA in the case of OTS students; AFIT/JA for
     AFIT students).



                                         [Signature Block of Commandant]
AUI 36-2315     19 NOVEMBER 2008                                                                23


                                          Attachment 4

               SAMPLE SUMMARY DISENROLLMENT MEMORANDUM

                                                                                   [Date]
MEMORANDUM FOR [Name and Rank of Student]
FROM: [School/Center Official’s Office Symbol and Mailing Address]
SUBJECT: Notification of Recommendation for Summary Disenrollment
1. Pursuant to AUI 36-2315, Student Disenrollment Procedures, paragraph _{#}_, I am
considering disenrolling you from [name of school & course] because of [general basis for
disenrollment]. The specific reasons for this action are as follows:
[Describe specific reasons for disenrollment]
2. You may submit written matters on your behalf to me by _{Time}_hours on __{Date}__
[allow at least 3 duty days for resident students and at least 7 duty days for students in distance
learning programs]. You may also request to appear before me. I will consider any matters you
submit in writing and during any personal appearance in making my recommendation. If you do
not submit written matters to me by that time, such right shall be deemed waived, unless I grant
you a written extension. If I decide to disenroll you from [school], your file, including any
matters that you submit, will be forwarded to [rank, name & symbol of final approval authority]
for final decision.
3. You may seek counsel to assist in your response to this action. You also have the right to
inspect and copy documents in your training record and the right to request an appearance before
the commandant. [If military member, add: You may be able to obtain Area Defense Counsel
assistance on a space-available basis; contact ____ {Name of ADC}_____ at __{Phone Number
of ADC}__.] [If civilian student, add: If you are a bargaining unit employee, you may seek
counsel from a union representative.] Any cost for civilian legal counsel will be at your own
expense.
4. After reviewing any matters you submit, I will make recommendations concerning whether
you should be disenrolled and whether any disenrollment should be with prejudice. If you are
disenrolled with prejudice, you may not be eligible to reenroll in this [school or course] in the
future. [For misconduct cases, add: My recommendation will be reviewed by AU/CC
(AFOATS/CC for OTS students), who will make a final decision.]

5. If you need additional time to respond or request a personal appearance, submit a written
request to me promptly at the address above.

                                                [Signature Block of Commandant or AFIT Dean]

_{#}_ Attachments:
[Documents supporting a basis for disenrollment]
24                                                        AUI 36-2315     19 NOVEMBER 2008


                                          Attachment 5

 SAMPLE NOTICE OF SUMMARY DISENROLLMENT ACTION MEMORANDUM

                                                                                   [Date]

     MEMORANDUM FOR [Name and Rank of Student]

     FROM: [School/Center Official’s Office Symbol]

     SUBJECT: Notification of Summary Disenrollment Action

     1. Pursuant to AUI 36-2315, Student Disenrollment Procedures, I have disenrolled you from
     [school and class] because of [state general reason]. Specifically, [if applicable, describe
     what the student did or did not do that was the basis for the disenrollment, and why that
     conduct is either not acceptable or otherwise makes the student ineligible to continue in the
     class.]

     2. [If applicable, comment on any matters the student submitted, expressly stating that you
     did consider such matters if they were submitted. Also, in the rare case of disenrollment
     without expulsion, explain the student’s “audit” status.]

     3. [Use in a misconduct case to address whether disenrollment is with or without prejudice
     and under what conditions, if any, the student may reenroll, (for example, “Because of your
     misconduct, I have decided to permanently disenroll you from Class 99-A. You will not be
     allowed to return to (class) in residence at any time in the future. This decision (does/does
     not) prohibit you from completing the distance learning version of the course.”)]

     4. This is a final decision and is effective immediately. [If a misconduct or faculty board
     case, add: The Air University Commander (Air Force Officer Accession and Training
     Schools Commander for OTS students) has reviewed your case and has approved this
     action.] You should retain a copy for your records.


                                                     [Signature Block of School/Center Official]

     cc: AU/CF
         AU/JA
         AU/IA (if applicable)
         Student’s owning/gaining CC
