BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2601
& PRESIDENT AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                                3 APRIL 2012

                                                                                    Personnel

                                                                               WARGAMING



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: LeMay Center/WG                                            Certified by: LeMay Center/CC
                                                               (Maj Gen Thomas K. Andersen)
                                                                                     Pages: 13
Supersedes:   AUI 36-2201,
              20 September 2005


This instruction implements AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development. It specifies responsibilities
and establishes procedures for scheduling and conducting wargames. It defines the relationship
between the Curtis E. LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education (LeMay Center)
and Air University (AU) wargame sponsors. It addresses methods to reduce wargame
scheduling conflicts among AU organizations and between AU and non-AU wargame
requirements. Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This instruction applies to
all AU organizations requesting LeMay Center wargaming support and is recommended as a
guide for all non-AU organizations conducting wargames at the LeMay Center with the support
of the LeMay Center’s Wargaming Directorate (LeMay Center/WG).
 2                                                                   AUI36-2601 3 APRIL 2012



SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision: Changes all references from AFDDEC to the LeMay Center. Changes Wargame
Requirements Document (WRD) approval from AFDDEC/CC to LeMay Center/WG, adds new
Executive Wargame Integration Group (EWIG) requirements for an annual EWIG and three
Wargame Integration Groups (WIG) per year at the Action Officer level.
1. General. Wargaming is exercised at AU as a means of applying and reinforcing strategic,
operational, and tactical warfighting principles and doctrine taught in Air Force Reserve Officer
Training (AFROTC), Officer Training School (OTS), and officer and enlisted professional
military education (PME), as well as Professional Continuing Education (PCE) programs.
Educational objectives form the foundation for the scenarios used in wargames, with a principal
focus on ensuring Airmen develop a full appreciation of the contributions and limitations of air,
space, and cyberspace power throughout the range of military operations.
     1.1. Wargaming at AU also supports scenarios with a broader joint focus that contribute to
     Process of Accreditation of Joint Education (PAJE) education requirements, as well as
     supporting several foreign nations’ wargames tailored for their own particular objectives.
     AU also directly supports a biennial USAF Title X exercise called the Futures Wargame, in
     addition to providing doctrine application expertise to USAF, service and joint exercises
     throughout the Department of Defense. The AU wargames and Title X exercise programs
     may also be used to assist in the validation of emerging doctrinal issues which may be added
     as educational wargame objectives by the wargame sponsor.
     1.2. The LeMay Center, through the Wargaming (WG) Directorate, develops policy and
     guidance and conducts programming, planning, support and assessment of the overall AU
     educational wargaming program on behalf of the AU commander. AU center commanders
     ensure their wargame programs comply with policy and guidance and contribute expertise
     and resources as appropriate to effectively plan and professionally execute AU wargames.
     College/School commandants and commanders will ensure their wargames are coordinated
     with LeMay Center/WG to optimize resources and to achieve educational objectives
     consistent with learning outcomes described in the Continuum of Officer and Enlisted
     Professional Military Education Strategic Guidance (CESG).
2. Scope. Wargaming at AU is principally conducted by the LeMay Center in building 1406, a
special-purpose, 56,000 square-foot facility specifically designed and equipped to support
educational wargaming. It can operate either in whole or in part as a secure, classified work
environment. The building contains 28 seminar and/or game rooms with room to room VTC
capability, and two conference rooms with audiovisual capabilities, to include both classified and
unclassified VTC capabilities. The building is designed for maximum flexibility and can be
easily manipulated to accommodate different wargames and exercises with a maximum capacity
of approximately 350 personnel downstairs. The LeMay Center programs and utilizes resources
needed to support all wargames hosted by WG.
     2.1. Wargames may also be conducted in AU colleges and schools. Schools must ensure the
     facilities, information technology (IT) infrastructure, equipment, and other necessary support
     is programmed, funded and supported to meet their wargame requirements.
AUI36-2601 3 APRIL 2012                                                                       3


       2.1.1. The LeMay Center will provide required support in an appropriate event
       requirements document, whether the wargame is conducted in building 1406 or in
       another facility. For Air Force wargames, this document is called a Wargame
       Requirements Document (WRD) (example in Attachment 2). For the Air Force Title X
       Futures Game and for joint games conducted for schools outside AU, to include foreign
       partners, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is required. (Note: MOU is a
       generic term. The MOU may be called a Letter of Intent, Implementing Arrangement,
       Educational Design Document (EDD), etc., depending on the wargame sponsor).
3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. AU Commander:
       3.1.1. Provides policy and annual guidance to the AU educational wargaming program.
       3.1.2. Serves as a member of the AF Modeling & Simulation (M&S) General Officer
       Steering Group (GOSG).
   3.2. LeMay Center Commander:
       3.2.1. Chairs the Executive Wargame Integration Group (EWIG) which meets annually
       or as required.
       3.2.2. Serves as a member of the AF Modeling & Simulation (M&S) Board.
       3.2.3. Approves MOU or other binding arrangements that establish special wargame
       support requirements for other Department of Defense (DoD) or foreign partners.
   3.3. AU Center Commanders, Commandants, and Wargame Sponsors:
       3.3.1. Make proposals to the LeMay Center/WG on new or substantially modified
       wargame scenarios to determine WG support requirements.
       3.3.2. Review and/or approve their organization’s WRDs and/or MOUs annually.
       3.3.3. Ensure a faculty/staff representative is appointed as a point of contact (POC) for
       each wargame (POC responsibilities can be found in paragraph 3.8).
       3.3.4. Ensure AU-sponsored wargames are developed in coordination with LeMay
       Center/WG to maximize effective use of resources to achieve educational objectives
       consistent with the learning outcomes described in the AU CESG, Officer Professional
       Military Educaton Policy (OPMEP) and/or other guiding directives.
       3.3.5. Review applicable WG wargame designs to ensure compatibility with sponsor
       objectives.
   3.4. LeMay Center/Wargaming (WG):
       3.4.1. Oversees LeMay Center’s Wargaming Institute facility.
       3.4.2. Designs, develops and maintains wargames to meet sponsor objectives (IAW this
       document, LeMay Center/WG OI 10-208, Wargaming Continuity Program; LeMay
       Center/WG OI 10-401, Wargame Development and Execution Process; and LeMay
       Center/WG OI 33-114, System Engineering Process).
4                                                                AUI36-2601 3 APRIL 2012


       3.4.3. Provides wargaming management to meet educational objectives. Responsible for
       the progress of sponsored wargames. Oversees requirements in coordination with each
       college commandant/wargame sponsor. Plans, organizes and executes wargames in
       support of educational objectives that are included in the WRD/MOU.
       3.4.4. Approves academic year (AY) wargame schedule.
       3.4.5. Approves WRDs.
       3.4.6. Approves building 1406 usage to support AU needs through an optimized master
       schedule of the facility, hardware and personnel to ensure availability of resources.
           3.4.6.1. Provides wargaming support as required for other services, PME schools,
           professional continuing education (PCE), operational commands, and foreign
           militaries.
       3.4.7. Upon Wargame Sponsor request, provides an update briefing for all scheduled
       wargames prior to execution.
       3.4.8. Oversees the development of educational wargame scenarios and associated
       databases.
       3.4.9. Appoints a wargame director for each wargame.
       3.4.10. Oversees the maintenance of and annual updates to the Wargame Compendium.
       The Wargame Compendium reflects the wargames, wargaming capabilities, and
       resources programmed for execution of the current AY educational wargaming program.
       3.4.11. Oversees, approves and prioritizes the development and maintenance of the Air
       Force Educational Wargaming Toolkit (AFEWT). The AFEWT is the Wargaming’
       wargaming software suite of tools, developed to meet the goals and objectives of the
       LeMay Center wargaming mission.
    3.5. LeMay Center/Director of Intelligence (IN):
       3.5.1. Assists LeMay/WG in developing wargame scenarios and associated databases.
       3.5.2. Provides trained members to serve on Wargame Design Teams.
       3.5.3. Develops and teaches lessons on intelligence-related topics, as requested by
       LeMay Center/WG, for training faculty and/or students preparing for wargames.
       3.5.4. Provides trained controllers, both active-duty and reserve component, to support
       intelligence-related objectives for AU educational wargames.
    3.6. Executive Wargame Integration Group (EWIG):
       3.6.1. The EWIG's purpose is to maximize efficiencies in support of AU's educational
       mission by collaborating on issues and resolving conflicts related to wargaming.
       3.6.2. Chaired by the LeMay Center CC.
       3.6.3. Members include: AU Commanders, Commandants and Wargame Sponsors (or
       their designated representatives) and LeMay Center/WG and is open to other interested
       parties.
AUI36-2601 3 APRIL 2012                                                                      5


  3.7. Wargame Integration Group (WIG):
     3.7.1. The WIG’s purpose is to ensure that wargaming planning and milestones are
     properly executed, review progress on executing wargame strategic plans, review the
     lessons learned from previous AY wargames and draft a wargame schedule for the
     following year. In addition, it also serves as an information exchange for wargames held
     at AU; highlights wargame scheduling conflicts and seeks solutions; identifies
     opportunities for participation or assistance in wargames; serves as a forum to share
     information regarding wargaming and related tools to include the Wargaming directorate,
     DoD, modeling and simulation center or commercial tools.
     3.7.2. At the discretion of LeMay Center/WG, the winter WIG may be done via email
     coordination.
     3.7.3. Members include: Wargame sponsors and/or POCs from AU colleges/schools
     running AU-sponsored wargames and LeMay Center’s Wargaming Operations and
     Intelligence staff.
     3.7.4. WIGs will normally be held quarterly with the following focus areas:
        3.7.4.1. Winter: Review progress, guidance and resolve current issues while
        ensuring milestones are on-track.
        3.7.4.2. Spring: Review progress on executing wargame strategic plans while
        deconflicting the wargaming calendar for the following AY.
        3.7.4.3. Summer: Review the lessons learned from previous AY wargames and
        present the wargame schedule for the following academic year.
        3.7.4.4. Fall (EWIG): Review the highlights of the previous AY wargames and the
        wargaming plan for the current AY to include the status of the WRDs.
  3.8. Wargame Sponsor’s POC:
     3.8.1. Submits respective wargame schedule at the summer WIG for the next AY.
     3.8.2. In cooperation with the Wargame Director, ensures WRD development and the
     requirements of the WRD are properly executed.
     3.8.3. Coordinates the schedule of the annual review and approval of the WRD with the
     appropriate sponsor and LeMay Center/WG by the fall EWIG. Discussion focus should
     include: desired learning objectives (DLOs), roles of students, faculty and controllers,
     wargame scenario, models and simulations, and milestone timeline.
     3.8.4. Coordinates efforts with the Wargame Director during the life cycle of the
     wargame to integrate each organization’s full capabilities to meet educational objectives.
     3.8.5. Participates actively on the Wargame Design Team (WDT). The WDT is
     responsible for the development of the wargame to achieve the desired learning
     objectives.
     3.8.6. Serves as the final authority during wargame execution for decisions affecting the
     sponsor’s curriculum, schedule or attainment of educational objectives.
     3.8.7. Critiques the wargame and recommends improvements.
 6                                                                  AUI36-2601 3 APRIL 2012


     3.9. Wargame Director:
        3.9.1. Develops the WRD in concert with the Wargame POC to ensure the wargame
        meets the sponsor’s educational objectives and determines how to proceed during the
        definition, design, and testing phases of the wargame.
        3.9.2. Designs the development and execution portions of the wargame. Ensures
        effective coordination of the wargame (e.g., software and hardware configuration, control
        team work schedules, and control system backups).
        3.9.3. In cooperation with the sponsor, oversees development of wargame materials,
        models or simulations, and computer support for execution.
        3.9.4. Coordinates with the Wargame POC on all wargaming issues that arise during
        wargame execution.
        3.9.5. Organizes the control team to monitor blue, green (international/coalition) and red
        (opposing forces [OPFOR]) team activities and performs functions not explicitly played
        in the wargame. Ensures player actions and adjudicator assessments are credible.
        3.9.6. Maintains wargame milestones, direction, tempo and timing within established
        guidelines (see attachment 3). Clarifies conditions, reports, rules, and procedures.
        Ensures compatibility of player actions with the sponsor’s objectives.
        3.9.7. Outbriefs LeMay Center/WG after completion of the after action report (AAR).
4. Procedures.
     4.1. Scheduling:
        4.1.1. LeMay Center/WAO will schedule WIGs as described in paragraph 3.7.4. These
        meetings ensure coordination of sponsor wargame training and execution schedules.
        Also, the meetings will provide the center commanders a status update on wargame
        execution and any suspense that is associated with preparation and support timelines.
        4.1.2. Wargame sponsors will make every effort to coordinate and finalize their
        respective schedule for wargames for the next AY by the Summer WIG.
        4.1.3. LeMay Center coordinates and publishes an AU-wide deconflicted wargame
        schedule that is approved at the Fall EWIG.
     4.2. Development and Conduct of Wargames:
        4.2.1. Wargame Requirements Document. The WRD is developed by the Wargame
        POC and the Wargame Director to meet school objectives. The Wargame Sponsor (or
        designated representative) and LeMay Center/WG should approve the draft WRD by the
        EWIG.
        4.2.2. Wargame Design. The WRD is the document that describes the type of wargame
        a school requires and is the tool from which LeMay Center will commit resources to meet
        school objectives. Development of this document is critical to the timely and effective
        planning and execution of a wargame. The LeMay Center/WG approves the WRD in
        coordination with the Wargame Sponsor. Further details on Wargame Lifecycle can be
        found in LeMay Center OI 10-401.
AUI36-2601 3 APRIL 2012                                                                          7


     4.2.3. Wargame Development. The Wargame Design Team (comprised of personnel
     from the Wargaming Operations Division, Wargaming Information Technology Division,
     Wargaming Technology Software Division, and LeMay Center/IN), with augmentation
     by the Wargame Sponsor and others as required:
        4.2.3.1. Prepares wargame instructions and scripts.
        4.2.3.2. Develops scenarios and builds the wargame database.
        4.2.3.3. Establishes command, control, and communications procedures for the
        wargame.
        4.2.3.4. Develops, modifies, and tests computer software appropriate for the
        wargame execution IAW LeMay Center/WG OI 10-401. (Software development and
        modification is IAW LeMay Center/WG OI 33-114).
     4.2.4. Wargame Testing/Pre-Play.          The Wargame Design Team examines all
     components of the wargame (supporting software, equipment, written material,
     procedures, personnel, etc.) to ensure components are compatible and meet wargame
     objectives. The WAT Test Director, in coordination with the Wargame Director, should
     prepare a comprehensive wargame test plan that describes the test to be performed, the
     participants, the timing, objectives, software (if any), procedures, and contents of reports
     to be prepared. Further details can be found in LeMay Center/WG OI 10-401.
     4.2.5. Wargame Preparation. The Wargame Director and Wargame POC ensure:
        4.2.5.1. Lists of participants (OPFOR team, control team, etc) are accurate and the
        participants are properly trained.
        4.2.5.2. Security clearances are confirmed and the access control system is updated.
        4.2.5.3. Seminar areas are properly configured (includes computer equipment, room
        arrangement and administrative supplies).
     4.2.6. Wargame Execution. The Wargame POC declares the start of the wargame.
     Through the control team (WG staff, faculty, subject-matter experts (SMEs), etc), the
     Wargame Director ensures the wargame is conducted in accordance with established
     rules and procedures to achieve educational objectives.
     4.2.7. Post-Wargame Analysis.
        4.2.7.1. The Wargame Director conducts an informal debriefing session at the
        conclusion of the wargame. This session should include the Wargame POC, blue
        team chief, OPFOR team chief, and control team chief. The Wargame Sponsor also
        has an opportunity to critique the wargame.
        4.2.7.2. Surveys will be requested from all wargame participants. Surveys will be
        tailored for each specific participant role (students, faculty and controllers) and results
        will be included in the AAR.
        4.2.7.3. The Wargame Director should prepare a detailed AAR within 30 days of the
        conclusion of the wargame.
 8                                                                 AUI36-2601 3 APRIL 2012


5. Title X Wargames. The Futures Capabilities Game (FG) is one of two biennial CSAF (Chief
of Staff, United States Air Force) Title X wargames established in 1996 to explore and better
understand what capabilities and alternative forces the USAF should develop to meet the
challenges beyond 20+ years. It is hosted by the LeMay Center and utilizes WG support, and
may be conducted at the SECRET-REL USA, GBR, CAN and AUS level. A MOU, coordinated
by LeMay Center/CC and HAF/A8XC, and signed by HAF/A8 and the AU/CC (or designated
representative), provides the guidance to develop, coordinate, and execute an FG.
6. International Wargame Support. The Wargaming directorate has provided wargame
support to our allied partners for nearly 20 years. This currently includes the Royal Air Forces
from the Netherlands, Australia and the United Kingdom. On an annual basis, and enabled by all
appropriate foreign military sales procedures (IAW AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure
and Technology Transfer Program), WG supports each allied partner with unclassified support
in the realm of software usage, scenario refinement, and wargame controller support. All
wargame material and/or data utilized by WG with each nation is screened through the local AU
foreign disclosure office.




                                            DAVID S. FADOK, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            Commander
AUI36-2601 3 APRIL 2012                                                                      9


                                        Attachment 1
       GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION

References
Joint Publication 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms,
15 November 2011
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011
AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, 1 December 2004
LeMay Center/WG OI 10-208, Wargaming Continuity Program, 5 May 2011
LeMay Center/WG OI 10-401, Wargame Development and Execution Process, 22 April 2011
LeMay Center/WG OI 33-114, System Engineering Process, 6 June 2011
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAR—After Action Report
AFEWT—Air Force Educational Wargaming Toolkit
AU—Air University
AY—Academic Year
CC—Commander
CESG—Continuum of Education Strategic Guidance
DLO—Desired Learning Objective
DoD—Department of Defense
EWIG—Executive Wargame Integration Group
FG—Futures Capabilities Game
LeMay Center—The Curtis E. LeMay Center for Doctrine, Development and Education
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
OA—Outcome Assessment
OPFOR—Opposing Forces
PCE—Professional Continuing Education
PME—Professional Military Education
POC—Point of Contact
WIG—Wargame Integration Group
WRD—Wargame Requirements Document
 10                                                                AUI36-2601 3 APRIL 2012


Terms
AU—Sponsored Wargame: Wargame designed and developed by LeMay Center. Gaming
events developed by other organizations are not subject to the requirements of this instruction.
Blue Team: Players representing the United States, allied or friendly forces. For AU—
sponsored games the blue team is usually comprised of students from the sponsoring school. For
wargames sponsored by operational commands, the blue team is usually comprised of members
of the sponsor’s staff and may include participants playing roles in which they are currently
assigned.
Computer—Assisted Wargame: A wargame in which players or staff use computers to assist
with bookkeeping, computations or informational displays such as orders of battle, force
movement or simulated outcomes.
Executive Wargame Integration Group (EWIG):—Chaired by the LeMay Center/CC and
members include the Center Commanders and/or their designated representatives.
Exercise:—Any activity involving the operations of actual military forces in a simulated hostile
environment. Exercises include execution of decisions and are considered training vs. education.
EXAMPLES: Red Flag, Green Flag.
Model: An application that approximates, represents, or idealizes selected aspects of a
real—world process, concept, or system.
Simulation:—An imitation of the function or functions of a system.
Wargame: Per Joint Pub 1—02, a wargame is a simulation, by whatever means, of a military
operation involving two or more opposing forces, using rules, data, and procedures designed to
depict an actual or assumed real-life situation. EXAMPLES: AU wargames such as Global
Challenge.
Wargame Design Team:—LeMay Center’s cross functional team led by LeMay Center/WG
wargaming operations. It designs the structure of the wargame to meet the DLOs specified in the
WRD.
Wargame Director:—LeMay Center’s POC responsible for planning and execution of the
wargame and who coordinates with the Wargame POC for wargame development and execution.
Wargame Integration Group:—An integration group chaired by the LeMay Center/WAO and
composed of representatives from all AU colleges involved in wargaming.
Wargame Requirements Document:—A contract approved by the respective college
commandant and LeMay Center/WG, or their designated representatives for a particular
wargame. The WRD is an annual document that details the purpose, objectives, major
assumptions, requirements, responsibilities and schedule. For recurring wargames, the WRD
may be a standing document but should be reviewed annually for applicability. (See Attachment
2 for sample format).
Wargame Sponsor:—Any organization requesting LeMay Center support to meet the
educational goals of the established curriculum.
Wargame POC:—The wargame sponsor’s principal POC between the sponsoring organization
and LeMay Center and who establishes wargame objectives and requirements (aka Warlord).
AUI36-2601 3 APRIL 2012                                                                       11


                                         Attachment 2
                            EXAMPLE FORMAT
                   WARGAME REQUIREMENTS DOCUMENT (WRD)
                             (WARGAME NAME)

A2.1. General: A general introductory statement describing the wargame.
A2.2. Purpose: Brief statement of the general purpose of the wargame.
A2.3. Wargame Sponsor & Coordinator: The name of the sponsoring organization and
representative.
A2.4. Wargame Director & Staff: The name of the LeMay Center individual responsible for
support to the sponsoring organization in developing and conducting the wargame.
A2.5. Desired Learning Objectives: A list of the key elements and deliverables to be observed
or tested that drive both the development and conduct of the wargame. Be as specific as
possible.
A2.6. Major Assumptions: List key assumptions/factors used to develop the wargame in terms
of scenario, players and control team.
A2.7. Frequency and Duration: Describe how often you intend to conduct the wargame
(number/year and projected dates) and how long each wargame will last. Look ahead to follow-
on wargames and comment on any anticipated changes to the wargame construct, duration and
timing.
A2.8. Location: State where the wargame will be conducted (sponsor’s location). Include
building and room numbers as appropriate.
A2.9. Security Classification: Level of classification of wargame play and any materials used
to support the wargame, restrictions due to foreign (non-US) participation or observation, and
availability of classified material storage containers (for wargames played at the sponsor’s
location).
A2.10. Wargame Design Recommendations: List any pertinent recommendations from the
previous year’s AAR and what warfighting applications are being integrated and assessed in the
wargame. This section should also highlight if any emerging doctrinal issues are being
introduced.
A2.11. Level of Play/Anticipated Wargame Roles: Indicate player, faculty and controller
positions/levels for each participating organization. Include an anticipated wargame chain of
command.
A2.12. Software & Hardware Requirements: List specific software and hardware
requirements for the wargame. (i.e. WISSO, WebForces, # computers, # LAN connections, etc.)
A2.13. Communications: List communications support requirements (i.e. WISSO, C2PC,
DCO, STE, VTC, LAN, etc.)
A2.14. Analysis Plan: Provide a brief statement outlining the mechanics of wargame analysis
including individuals or organizations responsible for observation of wargame play, collection of
data and preparation of the post wargame report.
 12                                                              AUI36-2601 3 APRIL 2012


A2.15. Tentative Schedule of Events: List the major action items, deadlines for completion
and offices of primary responsibility for wargame development. Outline the major activities
(observables) in the daily schedule during the play of the wargame.
A2.16. Resources Available/Required: List any budget, augmentee support or operations
available or required for wargame planning and execution. Provide an estimate of contractor
tasks and associated workload, Service Delivery Summary (SDS).
A2.17. Organizational Responsibilities: Describe all responsibilities in development, planning
and execution of the wargame for each organization.
A2.18. Updates & Changes: Identify who any updates and changes must be coordinated
through.
AUI36-2601 3 APRIL 2012                                           13


                                    Attachment 3
                      GENERIC SCHEDULING MILESTONES
                          FOR ANNUAL WARGAMES

Figure A3.1. Generic Scheduling Milestones for Annual Wargames.
