BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 36-2813
AND PRESIDENT AIR UNIVERSITY
(AETC)                                                                         14 AUGUST 2012

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                        THE AIR UNIVERSITY EDUCATION
                                                                    AWARDS PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AU/CF                                                           Certified by: HQ AU/CF
                                                                             (Dr. Bruce Murphy)
Supersedes:    AUI 36-2313, 25 May 2006                                                 Pages: 7


This instruction implements AFPD 36-23, Military Education and references AFI 36-2805
AETC SUP 1, Special Trophies and Awards, and AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program. It
describes education awards programs whose nomination and selection processes are conducted
by The Air University (AU) Headquarters and which apply to more than one school. Refer
recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is substantially revised and should be reviewed in its entirety. Criteria for the
General Muir S. Fairchild Educational Achievement Award was revised to stress the intent of
including all AU programs and directorates. Criteria for the Air University Foundation’s Society
of the Strategic Air Command’s Air University Faculty Excellence Award was changed to clarify
the prestige of the AETC Educator of the Year Award. Additional guidance was provided for
submission of nominee packages.
 2                                                               AUI36-2813 14 AUGUST 2012


1. Roles and Responsibilities. The Air University awards program will be executed by AU/CF.
     1.1. Centers and Schools will submit information electronically IAW AFI 33-332,
     paragraphs 2.2.4 through 2.2.6.
2. The Secretary of the Air Force Leadership Awards. The Secretary of the Air Force
(SECAF) Leadership Awards are given annually to honor Professional Military Education
(PME) graduates who demonstrated the greatest leadership while attending school during the
current academic year.
     2.1. Policy. One student from each of the Air Force Senior Noncommissioned Officer
     Academy (AFSNCOA), Squadron Officer School (SOS), Air Command and Staff College
     (ACSC), and Air War College (AWC) is recognized as a SECAF Leadership Award winner.
     Air Force Fellows may compete with other eligible nominees from the ACSC or AWC as
     appropriate. The award honors individuals only, not squadrons or flights.
     2.2. Eligibility. One student per designated school during the recent academic year is
     recognized for demonstrating the highest level of leadership while attending PME.
     2.3. Nomination and Selection. Each authorized center/school determines how to conduct
     their internal nomination and selection process(es). Air Force Fellows nominees will be
     submitted to ACSC and AWC for consideration with other IDE/SDE students. The deputy
     director of Air Force Research Institute (AFRI) will sit on the selection boards. Centers
     submit their award recipient package(s) to HQ AU/CF including: 1) AF Form 1206,
     Nomination for Award, 2) biography, 3) proposed citation, 4) cover letter providing the
     name, phone number, and office symbol of a point of contact, signed by school Commandant
     or equivalent, and 5) information sheet.
        2.3.1. AF Form 1206 Nomination for Award. Use single-spaced bullet format. Limit
        bullets to one page. Use the following categories: 1) Leadership and Performance; 2)
        Significant Self Improvement; and 3) School, University, Wing and/or Community
        Involvement.
        2.3.2. Biography and Citation. Follow format in AFI 36-2805 AETC SUP1, Attachment
        2, Sample Biography; and Attachment 3, Citation Format for Special Trophies and
        Awards. 3.3. Information Sheet. Include current name and rank of nominee, name of
        current/gaining unit, duty title of nominee, complete unit mailing address and DSN, name
        and rank of commander, name and rank of supervisor. Provide names of spouse and
        children if they will be attending the ceremony.
     2.4. Presentation. AU/CF and AU/CCP work together to arrange for the Secretary of the Air
     Force or a representative to present the awards at a ceremony in the spring (historically near
     the end of May in conjunction with the AWC National Security Forum since the Secretary of
     the Air Force is usually on campus for that event).
     2.5. Travel. The Center/school or member’s unit will be responsible for travel and per diem
     for graduates who must travel TDY to attend the award ceremony. If supervisors/school
     leaders wish to cover the cost of the recipient’s meal, it must be paid for at their personal
     expense, otherwise, the award recipient is responsible to pay the cost of his/her own meal, if
     any. Since schools have a relationship with the student and selected him/her for the award,
AUI36-2813 14 AUGUST 2012                                                                    3


   schools will work these issues with recipients or their supervisors. Award recipients are
   responsible for costs associated with travel and meals for spouse and/or other guests.
3. The Air Education and Training Command (AETC) Educator of the Year Awards. The
AETC Educator of the Year award recognizes individual faculty members who have made
outstanding contributions to AETC’s education mission during the current academic year.
   3.1. Policy. The Air University recognizes one faculty member as AETC Educator of the
   Year in each of the following categories: 1) officer, 2) enlisted and 3) civilian. The award
   honors individuals only, not teams or units.
   3.2. Eligibility. A faculty member is a subject matter expert whose primary duties are to 1)
   develop and/or teach formal educational courses and/or 2) conduct research, author and
   publish original work in one’s professional discipline or engage in innovative practices for
   education consistent with the mission of The Air University; 3) Engage in governance and/or
   leadership activities to assist in the smooth functioning of the school and development of
   students. Personnel eligible for technical training awards sponsored by AETC Directorate of
   Technical Training (AETC/TT) may not compete for AETC Educator of the Year.
   3.3. Nomination. AU/CF conducts the nomination and selection process on behalf of the
   AETC Director of Education (AETC/ED). Each eligible organization reporting directly to the
   AETC/ED (AU/CC) may submit one nominee in each category (as appropriate). Nomination
   packages are submitted to AU/CF by late August, or upon request, for the previous academic
   year. Each center determines how to conduct its internal nomination and selection
   process(es) to identify their nominee(s). Centers submit their final nominee package(s) to
   HQ AU/CF including: 1) AF Form 1206, 2) biography, 3) proposed citation, 4) cover letter
   providing the name, phone number, and office symbol of a point of contact, signed by school
   Commandant or equivalent, and 5) information sheet. Only the AF Form 1206 is provided to
   the selection committee.
      3.3.1. AF Form 1206. Use single-spaced bullet format. Limit bullets to one page. Use the
      following categories as appropriate to your faculty: 1) Teaching and/or Curriculum
      Development; 2) Research and/or Innovation; and 3) Governance and/or Leadership.
      3.3.2. Biography and Citation. Follow format in AFI 36-2805_AETCSUP, Attachment 2,
      Sample Biography; and Attachment 3, Citation Format for Special Trophies and Awards.
      3.3.3. Information Sheet. Include current name and rank of nominee, name of
      current/gaining unit, duty title of nominee, complete unit mailing address and DSN, name
      and rank of commander, name and rank of supervisor, names of spouse and children if
      they will be attending the ceremony.
   3.4. Selection Procedures. AU/CF appoints an ad hoc selection panel of members not
   affiliated with the schools who submitted nominations. At least one panel member will be a
   senior NCO, one an officer (Capt or higher) and one a civilian (GS-12 or higher or
   equivalent). The panel reviews all packages and recommends a selectee for each category.
   Ties are broken by the AU Vice President for Academic Affairs. Results are verified by the
   AU/DS and presented to the AU/CC for final approval. AU/CF notifies the organization’s
   points of contact.
 4                                                               AUI36-2813 14 AUGUST 2012


     3.5. Presentation. AU/CF purchases engraved trophies, prepares citations, and drafts/
     coordinates the script for the ceremony. AU/CF arranges for the awards to be presented by
     the AETC/ED and/or AETC/CC in a ceremony commensurate with the prestige of the award.
     3.6. Travel. The Center, school or member’s unit will be responsible for travel and per diem
     for graduates who must travel TDY to attend the award ceremony. If supervisors/school
     leaders wish to cover the cost of the recipient’s meal, it must be paid for at their personal
     expense, otherwise, the award recipient is responsible to pay the cost of his/her own meal, if
     any. Since schools have a relationship with the student and selected him/her for the award,
     schools will work these issues with recipients or their supervisors. Award recipients are
     responsible for costs associated with travel and meals for spouse and/or other guests.
4. The General Muir S. Fairchild Educational Achievement Award. This award was
instituted by the Order of Daedalians, founded at Maxwell AFB in 1934 by Lieutenant General
Harold L. George, USAF (retired). Its inaugural members were World War I officer pilots, and it
continues its work through their descendants and named members. The Order of Daedalians
recognizes outstanding achievement in education at The Air University. The perpetual trophy,
prominently displayed in the Daedalian Room of the Maxwell AFB Club, was donated by the
Order as a memorial to General Fairchild, founder and first commander of The Air University.
     4.1. Policy. The award is given each year for the most significant contribution to the
     university’s education mission or to Air Force education in general. It is intended to
     stimulate and reward creative and outstanding achievement in military education, including
     educational and administrative support services that directly contribute to educational
     program development, delivery, sustainment, instruction and learning. The award encourages
     university personnel to pioneer the field of inquiry, enterprise and progress in professional
     education for the Air Force.
     4.2. Eligibility. AU civilian employees and military personnel, including members of other
     services or government agencies assigned to AU, may be nominated. Nominees’
     accomplishments, service, and contributions should have been significant, outstanding, and
     continuous, extending over at least one calendar year. However, a nomination is considered
     for a one-time contribution if it results in noteworthy benefit to AU or to Air Force
     education. Students, faculty, individual employees, unit or cross-organizational working
     groups, teams, schools, directorates and work centers may compete for the award.
     4.3. Nomination. AU/CF conducts the nomination and selection process on behalf of the
     Order of Daedalians. Each eligible organization or directorate reporting directly to AU/CC
     may submit one nominee each year. Nomination packages are submitted to AU/CF in the
     Spring for the previous calendar year. Each center determines how to conduct their internal
     nomination and selection process(es) to identify their nominee(s). Centers submit their final
     nominee package(s) to HQ AU/CF including: 1) AF Form 1206, 2) biography, 3) proposed
     citation, 4) cover letter providing the name, phone number, and office symbol of a point of
     contact, signed by school Commandant or equivalent, and 5) information sheet. Only the AF
     Form 1206 is provided to the selection committee.
        4.3.1. AF Form 1206. Use single-spaced bullet format. Limit bullets to one page. The
        following categories are suggested, however latitude exists for units to organize their
        bullets under categories best suited to the contributions: 1) Innovations in research,
        academics, educational support, or administrative support services; 2) Use of Technology
AUI36-2813 14 AUGUST 2012                                                                      5


       or Innovative Practices; and 3) Efficient and Effective Use of Resources/Cost
       Savings/Risk Prediction & Planning.
       4.3.2. Biography and Citation. Follow format in AFI 36-2805_AETCSUP, Attachment 2,
       Sample Biography; and Attachment 3, Citation Format for Special Trophies and Awards.
       4.3.3. Information Sheet.
          4.3.3.1. Individuals. Include current name and rank of nominee, name of
          current/gaining unit, duty title of nominee, complete unit mailing address and DSN,
          name and rank of commander, name and rank of supervisor, names of spouse and
          children if they will be attending the ceremony.
          4.3.3.2. Groups. Include description or name of group; names and ranks and unit(s)
          of assignment for each team member; name, email address and DSN for team POC;
          duty title of center/school/unit commander/commandant/director as applicable;
          complete unit mailing address and DSN.
   4.4. Selection Procedures. AU/CF appoints an ad hoc selection panel of members not
   affiliated with the schools who submitted nominations. At least one panel member will be a
   senior NCO, one an officer (Capt or higher) and one a civilian (GS-12 or higher or
   equivalent). The panel evaluates the nominations and recommends a selectee for AU/CC
   approval. Ties are broken by the AU Vice President for Academic Affairs. The AU/DS
   verifies results. Upon final decision of AU/CC, AU/CF notifies the organization’s point of
   contact.
   4.5. Presentation. AU/CF notifies the National Headquarters, Order of Daedalians, of the
   selection and provides the Maxwell AFB Founders Flight Captain all necessary information
   to arrange for the individual or group plaque to be purchased and engraved, and the perpetual
   trophy to be engraved. The Order of Daedalians plans and executes an appropriate award
   presentation ceremony.
   4.6. Travel. The Center, school or member’s unit will be responsible for travel and per
   diem for graduates who must travel TDY to attend the award ceremony. If supervisors/school
   leaders wish to cover the cost of the recipient’s meal, it must be paid for at their personal
   expense, otherwise, the award recipient is responsible to pay the cost of his/her own meal, if
   any. Schools/units have a relationship with the recipient and selected him/her for the award,
   they will work these issues with recipients or their supervisors. Award recipients are
   responsible for costs associated with travel and meals for spouse and/or other guests.
5. The Air University Foundation’s Society of the Strategic Air Command’s Air University
Faculty Excellence Award. This award is presented by The Air University Foundation on
behalf of the Society of the Strategic Air Command (SSAC), Inc., which provided the assets for
continuation of the award when the Society was dissolved at the time the Strategic Air Command
was inactivated. SSAC was incorporated as a non-profit organization dedicated to preserving the
rich heritage, tradition, and dedication of the men and women of the Strategic Air Command.
SSAC was committed to fostering an understanding of the continuing need for strong, modern
air and space forces and air and space power. Education was the focal point around which the
Society built its programs. SSAC annually honors AU’s outstanding faculty member with its
AU Faculty Excellence Award.
 6                                                               AUI36-2813 14 AUGUST 2012


     5.1. Policy. This award honors an outstanding AU faculty member.
     5.2. Eligibility. Nominees for the AETC Educator of the Year, all categories (officer,
     enlisted, civilian) are eligible.
     5.3. Nomination and Selection. AU/CF conducts the selection process on behalf of The Air
     University Foundation.
        5.3.1. Nomination Procedure. Selectees for the AETC Educator of the Year award are
        chosen first and excluded from consideration for this award.
        5.3.2. Selection Procedures. AU/CF asks the ad hoc selection panel which determined
        the winners of the AETC Educator of the Year to reevaluate the remaining nomination
        packages and recommend one of them for AU/CC approval. Ties are broken by the AU
        Vice President for Academic Affairs. Upon final decision of AU/CC, AU/CF notifies
        The Air University Foundation of the selection, providing the necessary information for
        the Foundation to purchase and engrave the trophy.
     5.4. Presentation. The recipient’s organization will arrange an appropriate presentation
     ceremony and notify The Air University Foundation of the date, time and location. The
     award will be presented by the Executive Director of The Air University Foundation or a
     designated representative.
     5.5. Travel. The Center, school or member’s unit will be responsible for travel and per diem
     for faculty who must travel TDY to attend the award ceremony. If supervisors/school leaders
     wish to cover the cost of the recipient’s meal, it must be paid for at their personal expense,
     otherwise, the award recipient is responsible to pay the cost of his/her own meal, if any.
     Since schools have a relationship with the faculty member and selected him/her for the
     award, schools will work these issues with recipients or their supervisors. Award recipients
     are responsible for costs associated with travel and meals for spouse and/or other guests.
6. School Specific Awards. These awards are managed by the individual colleges and schools.




                                              DAVID S. FADOK, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              Commander and President
AUI36-2813 14 AUGUST 2012                                             7


                                      Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 August 1997
AFI 36-2805_AETCSUP, Special Trophies and Awards, 12 September 2006
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACSC—Air Command and Staff College
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFRI—Air Force Research Institute
AFSNCOA—Air Force Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy
AU—Air University
AWC—Air War College
PME—Professional Military Education
SECAF——Secretary of the Air Force
SOS—Squadron Officer School
SSAC—Society of Strategic Air Command, Inc.
