BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 51-101
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                           27 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                                               Law

                                                    COMPLETION OF CONFIDENTIAL AND
                                                       PUBLIC FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
                                                                           REPORTS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AU/JA                                              Certified by: AU/JA (Mr. John Kongable)
                                                                                       Pages: 6



This instruction implements AFI 51-102, The Judge Advocate General’s Department. The
purpose of this instruction is to provide guidance on the completion of Confidential Financial
Disclosure Reports and Public Financial Disclosure Reports by Air University (AU) personnel.
Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims. This publication applies to all AU personnel,
including active duty and reserve members and civilian employees.

The Privacy Act of 1974 applies to this instruction. Each form that is subject to the provisions of
AFI 33-332 “Air Force Privacy Program” must contain a Privacy Act Statement, either in the
form itself or attached to it. The authorities to collect personal information and maintain the
records listed in this instruction are Title 10, United States Code (U.S.C.) 8013, 42 U .S.C.290 dd
2, et seq., and Executive Orders 9397 and 11478. System of Records Notice F030 AF MP B,
Drug/Alcohol Abuse Assessment and Rehabilitation Case Files, applies. Attachment 1 contains
a glossary of references, abbreviations, acronyms, and terms.

1. Purpose: Federal rules and DoD regulations require that certain federal employees complete
financial disclosure reports. These reports provide commanders and supervisors information
upon which they can ensure that the financial interests of these individuals do not pose a
potential conflict of interest with the individual’s official duties. It is important that employees
 2                                                           AUI51-101 27 SEPTEMBER 2011


make decisions and take actions based upon the best interest of their organization, the Air Force,
and the United States. Outside financial interests that could influence an employee’s decisions
or actions must be avoided. In order to provide reviewing officials the information necessary to
determine whether conflicting financial interests exist, employees are required to provide limited
financial information to supervisors and reviewing officials.
1.1 The requirement to file a financial disclosure report is generally related to the
position held by the employee. It is the duties of the position to which the employee is assigned
that present the situations that could lead to a conflict of interest with the employee’s financial
interests. The requirement to complete the disclosure report is created by the employee’s entry
into the position. These positions are referred to as “covered positions” and will be so referred to
in this instruction.
2. Public Financial Disclosure Reports. The following sets forth guidance for AU personnel
in the completion of Office of Government Ethics (OGE) Form 278, Executive Branch Personnel
Public Financial Disclosure Report.
     2.1. The requirement to complete the OGE 278 generally is connected to a specific status or
     duty position held by an individual. If the person is in a covered position, the person is
     required to complete an OGE 278 report. The following individuals within AU are
     considered to be in covered positions and required to file the OGE 278:
        2.1.1. Active duty officers in the rank of O-7 or above.
        2.1.2. Reserve officers in the rank of O-7 or above who perform more than 60 days of
        active duty in a calendar year.
        2.1.3. Civilian faculty members paid under the Administratively Determined (AD) pay
        system who hold the academic rank of AD-26 or above.
     2.2. Those who are required under paragraph 2.1 above to file an OGE 278 report must
     complete the report on the following schedule:
        2.2.1. Individuals must file the required financial disclosure report within 30 days of
        entering the covered position. For active duty members, this is the effective date of their
        promotion to O-7. For reserve general officers, this is the 61st day of active duty in the
        same calendar year. For civilian employees, this is the date they begin employment in
        the covered position. If the individual was previously in a covered position and less than
        30 days has elapsed between the previous and current position, the previously filed OGE
        278 may be submitted to meet this requirement.
        2.2.2. Individuals will complete an OGE 278 report annually as long as they are serving
        in the position that requires the report. The annual report will be provided to AU/JA no
        earlier than 1 January and no later than 15 May.
        2.2.3. When an individual leaves the covered position (including separation or retirement
        from federal civil service or from active duty), a termination OGE 278 report will be
        completed and filed with AU/JA no earlier than the effective date of departure from the
        covered position or separation from federal service and no later than 30 days after that
        date. A termination OGE 278 report is not required if the individual is leaving one
        covered position, but will assume another covered position within 30 days.
AUI51-101 27 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                      3


       2.2.4. Any request for an extension in the filing deadline must be fully justified and
       submitted in writing to AU/JA.
3. Confidential Financial Disclosure Reports: The following sets forth the guidance for AU
personnel in the completion of OGE Form 450, Confidential Financial Disclosure Report.
   3.1. The following individuals are considered to be in covered positions for the purposes of
   the requirement to complete an OGE 450 report:
       3.1.1. 42 ABW/CC in his capacity as the Installation commander.
       3.1.2. Members of the AU Board of Visitors (BOV).
       3.1.3. Military members or civilian employees whose supervisor or commander has
       determined should be required to complete such a report based upon the individual’s
       official duties. The criteria to be applied by supervisors and commanders in reaching this
       determination is that those individuals whose official duties “require them to participate
       personally and substantially through decision or exercise of significant judgment in
       taking an official action for contracting or procurement, administering or monitoring
       grants, subsidies, licenses or other Federally conferred financial or operational benefits,
       regulating or auditing any non-Federal entity, or other activities in which the final
       decision or action may have a direct and substantial economic impact on the interests of
       any non-Federal entity” should be required to complete an OGE 450 report. (Joint Ethics
       Regulation, paragraph 7-300(a)(3)(a).)
   3.2. Those who are required under paragraph 3.1 above to file an OGE 450 report must
   complete the report on the following schedule:
       3.2.1. Individuals must file a new entrant report within 30 days of entering the covered
       position. For military members, this is the date on which they began duties in the
       covered position. For civilian employees, this is the date they begin employment in the
       covered position. If the individual was previously in a covered position, and less than 30
       days has elapsed between the previous and current position, the previously filed OGE 450
       may be submitted to meet this requirement.
       3.2.2. In the case of a supervisor or commander making a determination that an
       individual’s duties require completion of the OGE 450 after the person has begun
       performing duty in that position, the effective date for entry into the covered position is
       the date of that determination. Therefore, the new entrant report will be due within 30
       days of the date of the decision by the supervisor or commander.
       3.2.3. Individuals will complete an OGE 450 report annually as long as they are serving
       in the position that requires the report. The annual report will be provided to AU/JA no
       earlier than 1 January and no later than 15 February.
       3.2.4. As authorized by OGE guidance, individuals in covered positions may complete
       the OGE Form 450-A, Confidential Certificate of No New Interests, in lieu of the annual
       report when there has been no change in their financial interests since the previous report.
       3.2.5. Any request for an extension in the filing deadline must be fully justified and
       submitted in writing to AU/JA.
4. Responsibilities:
4                                                           AUI51-101 27 SEPTEMBER 2011


    4.1. AU/JA will:
       4.1.1. Provide oversight to the financial disclosure reporting program at AU and its
       subordinate organizations.
           4.1.1.1. AU/JA may carry out this responsibility through the subordinate legal offices
           at the 42d Air Base Wing (42 ABW), Holm Center, and the Air Force Institute of
           Technology (AFIT) as needed.
       4.1.2. Provide the most current list of personnel who are required to file a confidential
       financial disclosure to the relevant commanders or supervisors in August for annual
       review and as needed to ensure currency. AU/JA will advise the commanders on the
       criteria for designating a position as a covered position and assist the commanders in
       making these designations.
       4.1.3. Collect the financial disclosure reports from filers as required by the Joint Ethics
       Regulation (JER) and DoD or AF directives. Those reports that must be reviewed by
       higher headquarters will be forwarded to the reviewing authority expeditiously.
       4.1.4. Review financial disclosures filed by AU personnel within 60 days of receiving
       the report.
    4.1.5. Maintain the financial disclosures and associated records as required by the JER and
    DoD guidance.
    4.2. AU/CC, Spaatz Center/CC, LeMay Center/CC, AFIT/CC, Holm Center/CC, and
    42 ABW/CC will:
       4.2.1. Review the list of covered positions in their respective organizations each year
       during August to verify the list is current. By applying the criteria set out in paragraph
       3.1.3 above, the above commanders will determine both whether any covered positions
       should be removed from the list and whether any additional positions should be
       considered covered positions.
       4.2.2. Provide the validated list, including deletions and additions, to AU/JA no later
       than 31 August of each year.
    4.3. 42 FSS/FSMP (Military Personnel) will:
       4.3.1. Maintain lists of covered positions for the purposes of OGE 278 and OGE 450
       reporting, including the names of the individuals filling those positions. The lists
       maintained by 42 MSS will not include the names of the AU BOV members.
       4.3.2. Provide the lists to AU/JA for review no later than 1 August of each year.
    4.4. 42 CONS/CC will:
       4.4.1. Maintain a list of all personnel in the unit who have current contracting warrants.
       4.4.2. Review the list of personnel in the unit who are required to file a financial
       disclosure in August of each year and, applying the criteria set out in paragraph 3.1.3
       above, determine whether any covered positions should be removed from the list and
       whether any additional positions should be considered covered positions.
AUI51-101 27 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                 5


     4.4.3. Provide notification to AU/JA prior to approving an initial contracting officer
     warrant for any 42 CONS personnel.
     4.4.4. Inform all 42 CONS personnel who are granted a contracting officer warrant of the
     requirement to complete the OGE 450 report and direct that the individuals contact
     AU/JA for further guidance.
  4.5. 42 FSS/FSMC (Civilian Personnel Flight) will:
     4.5.1. Add an item to the new employee in-processing checklist an item that instructs
     them, NLT one week after effective date, “Check with supervisor to determine if your
     position requires a financial disclosure filing.”
     4.5.2. Add a slide to the in-processing briefing to reflect the requirement to check with
     supervisor as noted above.
     4.5.3. Add to the out-processing checklist the requirement that employees out process by
     phone with JA to allow JA the opportunity to note position vacancies. JA will
     correspond with civilian personnel to ensure JA is notified when the position is filled.
     4.5.4. Add a comment in “position remarks” on the Position Control Register that states
     “OGE 450 - call JA” and ensure position descriptions include the requirement.




                                          ALLEN G. PECK, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          Commander
 6                                                        AUI51-101 27 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 5 Code of Federal Regulation, sections 2634.101 through section 2634.909
DOD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation, 30 August 1993, with Changes 1 through 6
AFI 51-102, The Staff Judge Advocate General’s Department, 19 July 1994
Adopted Forms
OGE Form 278, Executive Branch Personnel Public Financial Disclosure Report, September
2010
OGE Form 450, Confidential Financial Disclosure Report, June 2008
OGE Form 450-A, Confidential Certificate of No New Interests, August 2005
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
42ABW—42d Air Base Wing
AD—Administratively Determined
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AU—Air University
AU/CC—Commander, Air University
BOV—Board of Visitors
JER—Joint Ethics Regulation
OGE—Office of Government Ethics
