BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           AIR UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION 65-101
AIR UNIVERSITY (AETC)
                                                                                  8 APRIL 2005
                                                    Incorporating Change 1, 24 September 2009
                                                                Certified Current, 18 April 2011

                                                                                        Finance

                                                    USE OF GOVERNMENT TRAVEL CARD

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY:          There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AU/FMF                                     Certified by: AU/FM (Col Antonio T. Douglas)
Supersedes AUI 65-101, 24 December 2002                                             Pages: 7

This instruction implements AFPD 65-1, Management of Financial Services. It outlines
appropriate use of the government-sponsored, contractor-issued travel card (hereafter referred to
as “GTC”). This instruction applies to personnel assigned to Air University, the 42d Air Base
Wing, and any tenant unit at Maxwell Air Force Base-Gunter Annex. This instruction requires
collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 5
U.S.C. 5707, Regulations and Reports, and implementing Federal Travel Regulation. System of
records notice GSA/GOVT-3, Travel Charge Card Program, applies. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims. This instruction applies to the use of the Citibank GTC and to any other
credit card or program intended as a replacement for the Citibank GTC. Commanders are
responsible to ensure compliance with this instruction. Failure to observe the requirements of
Chapter 10 constitutes misuse and subjects the cardholder to appropriate disciplinary action.
Military members may be subject to punishment under Article 92 of the Uniform Code of
Military Justice. Civilian members may be subject to appropriate administrative adverse or
disciplinary action.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change: updates the OPR and Certifying Authority; updates references from Bank
of America to Citibank; updates accrual process while on extended TDY; changes on-line
address to pay GTC bill; updates reference from Family Support Center to Airman and Family
Readiness Center; and updates Attachment 2. A margin bar (|) indicates revised information.
2                                                                  AUI 65-101      8 APRIL 2005

1. Background. The Travel and Transportation Reform Act of 1998 stipulates the GTC shall be
furnished to US Government personnel (civilian and military) to defray expenses associated with
official business travel. Charges to the GTC are the sole responsibility of the individual
cardholder. The General Services Administration (GSA) awards and administers a master
contract for the GTC program.

2. Policy. The GTC is essential for the efficient administration of official government business.
GTC use is required, unless otherwise exempted. Therefore, it is necessary for cardholders to
maintain their account in good standing. Although a traveler may be required to use the GTC,
failure to use the card shall not be a basis for refusing to reimburse the traveler for otherwise
appropriate charges. However, such failure shall subject the cardholder to appropriate
administrative and disciplinary action. Misuse occurs when the cardholder uses the GTC for
other than government business, fails to pay account charges when due, and violates the
agreement between the cardholder and GTC contractor. GTC use for personal expenses is not
authorized and subjects the cardholder to disciplinary action.

3. Responsibilities. The Commander and the Unit APC have the responsibility of making sure
the GTC program is properly maintained and administered to prevent delinquencies and misuse
of the GTC.

    3.1. Commander. Must appoint a primary and alternate Agency Program Coordinator (APC)
    in official memorandum format. Administer disciplinary actions for delinquencies and abuse
    of the GTC by assigned cardholders. Ensure unit APC is following this supplement and
    carrying out his/her duties adequately.

    3.2. Unit Agency Program Coordinator (APC). Responsible for the day-to-day oversight of
    the unit’s GTC program. Report delinquencies and abuse of all assigned cardholders. Contact
    the supervisor when a subordinate’s name appears on the delinquent list or abuse has occurred.
    Manage and control the delinquencies and abuse of all assigned cardholders. Before engaging
    in any issues or tasks associated with the GTC program, ensure the commander has signed an
    appointment letter for the duty of unit APC. Ensure a training session is scheduled with the
    base APC no later than 10 days after the unit commander has signed the appointment letter.
    Complete the IG/Self-Inspection checklist (Attachment 2) at least semiannually.

4. Program Administration.

    4.1. Issuing Cards. Unit APCs brief prospective cardholders before giving them an
    application. This briefing consists of providing the prospective cardholder with a copy of this
    instruction, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation Vol. 9 Ch. 3, which can
    be found at www.dod.mil/comptroller/fmr/09/index.html, answering any questions the
    prospective cardholder may have, and having the prospective cardholder complete the
    Statement      of     Understanding       located     at    the     following     web     site:
    http://www.dod.mil/comptroller/fmr/09/09_03_Annex1-4.pdf. The completed Statement of
    Understanding is maintained with the unit APC.

    4.2. Maintaining Cards. The GTC is intended for use only with official government travel.
    Therefore, unit commanders may, at their discretion, require the APC to deactivate member’s
AUI 65-101     8 APRIL 2005                                                                    3

   accounts until they are required to perform official travel. Cards must be destroyed upon
   separation or retirement from the Air Force.

   4.3. Orders to Stop Use. Commanders, supervisors, or first sergeants may order a cardholder
   to stop using the GTC when any suspected misuse is discovered. Commanders may also
   instruct the unit APC to cancel any member’s card. Orders to stop use must be in writing.

5. Infrequent Travelers. Infrequent travelers are those who travel two or less times per year.
Infrequent travelers are not required to obtain a GTC and are identified by the unit APC and unit
commander as being exempt on travel orders. However, if an infrequent traveler’s commander
determines he or she requires a GTC, then this instruction shall apply to that cardholder.

   5.1. Payment Methods Authorized When Exempted. When a GTC exemption is granted, one
   of the following methods may be authorized for travel expense payment:

       5.1.1. Personal Funds. Includes cash or a personal charge card.

       5.1.2. Travel Advances. Advances are made via electronic funds transfer (EFT). Travel
       orders with the appropriate item marked on the back of the orders indicating member is
       an infrequent traveler must be delivered to the AU Finance office 5 business days before
       travel begins to expedite timely processing.

       5.1.3. Transportation. Commercially procured travel (through the Commercial Travel
       Office [CTO]) may be purchased on a centrally billed account (CBA). Travel orders with
       the appropriate item marked on the back of the order indicating member is an infrequent
       traveler must be delivered to the CTO before tickets will be issued.

6. Mandatory Uses. The GTC may be used only for official travel and travel-related charges
incurred while on temporary duty (TDY) status. The cardholder may not charge other persons’
expenses, except for dependents stated on the travel orders. The GTC is further restricted as
follows:

   6.1. Transportation Expenses. Cardholders must charge airfare and ground transportation
   costs on the GTC while performing official TDY duties. This includes rental car fees.

   6.2. Lodging Expenses. Cardholders must charge lodging expenses incurred en route and at
   the destination.

7. Authorized Uses. The GTC may be used for official travel and travel-related charges
incurred while on TDY or during a permanent change of station (PCS).

   7.1. Meals. Cardholders may charge meals consumed while performing official government
   duties.

   7.2. Cash Advances. Cash advances should be limited to those expenses that cannot be
   charged to the GTC. Cardholders may obtain cash advances from automatic teller machines
   (ATM) that do not exceed the authorized per diem for the duration of travel status.
   Cardholders will not obtain cash advances earlier than 3 days before commencing travel. (As a
4                                                                    AUI 65-101      8 APRIL 2005

    reminder, the cardholder can be reimbursed for ATM and service fees charged by the GTC
    contractor.)

    7.3. Incidentals. Incidental expenses are authorized when such costs are incurred during
    official travel. Non-reimbursable incidental travel expenses, such as personal telephone calls
    and beverages may be charged to the GTC when part of a room billing or meal, and are
    reasonable.

    7.4. Registration Fees. Registration fees may be paid with the GTC if authorized on the
    traveler’s orders.

8. Split Disbursements. It is mandatory for travelers to use split disbursement when filing their
travel voucher. This ensures the bank is paid in a timely manner and the cardholder does not
have to worry about making the payment. If there is no amount in the split disbursement block
and the member’s supervisor has signed the voucher, the traveler will be responsible for making
the payments to keep the account in good standing.

9. Extended TDYs. Cardholders performing extended TDYs (over 45 days) are not relieved
from paying the balance within 30 days. It is the cardholder’s responsibility to make sure a copy
of the bill is received at the TDY location or make other arrangements to keep the account in
good standing.

    9.1. Accrual Payments. Accrual payments are available and recommended for extended
    TDYs. Members accomplish this by visiting the finance office with two copies of their official
    travel orders prior to departing TDY. Payments will be calculated at 100% of the anticipated
    per diem rate for the TDY location and paid every 30 days at the member’s request until TDY
    is completed. This applies to military and civilian DoD employees.

    9.2. Accrual Payments for Members at TDY Location. If members need accrual payments
    made and are already at their TDY location, they should complete the accrual package through
    vMPF.

10. Misuse. Failure to observe the following requirement constitutes misuse and subjects the
cardholder to appropriate disciplinary action. Military members may be subject to punishment
under Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Civilian members may be subject to
appropriate administrative adverse or disciplinary action.

    10.1. Account Delinquency. Cardholders must pay the entire account balance within 30 days
    of the billing date. Cardholders who receive a delinquency notice must pay the entire balance
    within 5 days of receipt. Cardholders can pay bills on-line at: http://home.cards.citidirect.com.
    Any installment agreement between the GTC contractor and the cardholder for paying a
    delinquent account will not excuse the cardholder from disciplinary actions.

    10.2. Late Fees. Late fees accrued due to the cardholder’s failure to pay are not reimbursable.

    10.3. Pay Withholding. The Travel Card Contractor may begin official collection action after
    the account becomes 120 days delinquent. Collection action may include credit bureau
    notification of the employee’s failure to pay and garnishment of the employee’s pay.
AUI 65-101     8 APRIL 2005                                                                    5

   10.4 Unauthorized Use. Using the GTC for other than official travel-related expenses or
   beyond the restrictions outlined in paragraphs 6 and 7 above is unauthorized use. Use of the
   GTC exceeding these limitations is misuse and not authorized.

11. Counseling. A cardholder is counseled whenever misuse or delinquency occurs.
Commanders and first sergeants should consider whether a formal written counseling is
appropriate. Commanders and first sergeants should also consider referring cardholders to the
Airman and Family Readiness Center for financial counseling when misuse of the GTC indicates
an underlying financial problem. Counseling under this provision is not a substitute for and does
not preclude initiation of appropriate disciplinary action, including non-judicial punishment or
trial by court-martial.


                                                    JOHN F. REGNI, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                    Commander, Air University
6                                                           AUI 65-101    8 APRIL 2005


                                     Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

DoD 7000.14-R, Financial Management Regulation, Volume 9, Travel Policy and Procedures
Travel and Transportation Reform Act of 1998

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AFMAN — Air Force Manual
APC — Agency Program Coordinator
ATM — Automatic Teller Machine
AUI — Air University Instruction
CBA — Centrally Billed Account
CTO — Commercial Travel Office
DoD — Department of Defense
EFT — Electronic Funds Transfer
GSA — General Services Administration
GOVT — Government
GTC — Government Travel Card
PCS — Permanent Change of Station
TDY — Temporary Duty
UCMJ — Uniform Code of Military Justice
US — United States
U.S.C. — United States Code
AUI 65-101   8 APRIL 2005                            7


                               Attachment 2

                      IG/SELF-INSPECTION CHECKLIST
