BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                              AVIANO INSTRUCTION 48-110
AVIANO (USAFE)                                                                            4 AUGUST 2005

                                                                                       Aerospace Medicine

                                                                                IONIZING RADIATION
                                                                              PROTECTION PROGRAM



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 31 AMDS/SGPB (Capt Michael J. Fea)                    Certified by: 31 MDG/CC (Col Lee E. Payne)
Supersedes AVIANOI48-110, 1 February 1999                                                  Pages: 12
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 6055.8, Occupational Radia-
tion Protection Program, 31 Mar 89, change 1 dated 6 May 96, and HQ AFMSC/SGPA Memo, Imple-
mentation of the ALARA Concept in the Air Force Radiation Protection Program, 17 Oct 84. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction has been amended to include information regarding public dose exposure monitoring,
recycling and disposal of radioactive materials, informing key base agencies of authorized uses of radio-
active material on base, reviewing the radiation program annually and briefing and documenting a wing
leadership briefing, establishing criteria for radiation overexposure investigations, and radiation training
effectiveness documentation. An bar (|) in front of text indicates changes made from previous edition.


1. Application. This instruction applies to all 31st Fighter Wing (31 FW) and tenant organization mili-
tary and civilian personnel (including foreign nationals) who supervise work with ionizing radiation
sources or who work in areas where exposure to ionizing radiation may occur. It also applies to people not
occupationally exposed (general public) to the extent that it addresses controls to protect the public from
potential hazards from sources of ionizing radiation owned or operated by the Air Force. This guidance is
not intended to apply to the exposure of patients by the 31st Medical Group during diagnostic or therapeu-
tic procedures, nor does it apply to exposures of personnel to radiation resulting from the employment of
nuclear or thermonuclear weapons in combat.

2. Scope. This instruction implements the As Low As Reasonably Achievable (ALARA) concept in the
Air Force ionizing radiation protection program. It establishes requirements for conducting the radiation
protection program and implements quality assurance requirements to ensure exposures are kept ALARA.
2                                                                AVIANOABI48-110 4 AUGUST 2005


3. Policy. All exposures to ionizing radiation will be ALARA. There will be no exposure to ionizing radi-
ation without an expected benefit. The dose received should be the lowest possible, consistent with the
state of technology, costs, and operational requirements. All ionizing radiation exposures will be kept as
far below existing standards as possible.

4. Responsibilities.
    4.1. 31 FW Commander will:
       4.1.1. Ensure an ionizing radiation protection program is developed, implemented, and main-
       tained.
       4.1.2. Appoint a Bioenvironmental Engineer (Air Force Specialty Code 43E) as the 31 FW Radi-
       ation Safety Officer (RSO).
       4.1.3. Actively support the ALARA principle.
    4.2. 31 FW RSO will:
       4.2.1. Develop, implement, and maintain the 31 FW Radiation Protection Program.
       4.2.2. Investigate incidents involving radioactive material and other sources of ionizing radiation.
       4.2.3. Review plans for new construction and modifications to ensure the ALARA principle is uti-
       lized.
       4.2.4. Manage the Personnel Dosimetry Program.
       4.2.5. Conduct initial and annual radiation safety training when requested by the shop supervisor.
       4.2.6. Assist unit RSOs in developing and maintaining unit radiation safety programs.
       4.2.7. Review operating instructions (OI), self-inspections, and other documents pertaining to
       ionizing radiation.
       4.2.8. Actively promote the ALARA principle.
       4.2.9. Inform key base agencies of authorized uses of radioactive material on base.
       4.2.10. Review at least annually the base radiation program, brief to wing leadership and docu-
       ment briefing.
    4.3. 31st Aerospace Medicine Squadron Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (31 AMDS/SGPB)
    will act under the direction of the 31 FW RSO to:
       4.3.1. Maintain an inventory of ionizing radiation sources on the installation.
       4.3.2. Measure radiation intensities, conduct workplace exposure and compliance evaluations,
       and define required work practices and controls to maintain exposures ALARA.
       4.3.3. Implement the Personnel Dosimetry Program in accordance with AFI 48-125, The US Air
       Force Personnel Dosimetry Program.
       4.3.4. Conduct a radiation exposure investigation when thermoluminescent dosimetry results are
       higher than 50 milliRem per quarter.
    4.4. Unit Commanders whose personnel have potential exposure to ionizing radiation will:
       4.4.1. Appoint unit RSOs in writing and inform the 31 FW RSO of the appointment.
AVIANOABI48-110 4 AUGUST 2005                                                                          3


     4.4.2. Ensure all assigned personnel working with or around radiation are trained at least annually
     and training is appropriately documented.
     4.4.3. Ensure required OIs are prepared and maintained.
     4.4.4. Ensure any incident (suspected or actual) involving radiation is reported immediately to the
     31 FW RSO.
     4.4.5. Actively support the ALARA principle.
  4.5. Unit RSOs will:
     4.5.1. Provide necessary information for the 31 FW RSO to compile required inventories and per-
     form required surveys.
     4.5.2. Ensure required unit OIs are prepared and maintained.
     4.5.3. Immediately notify the 31 FW RSO about any incident (suspected or actual) involving ion-
     izing radiation.
     4.5.4. Establish a unit radiation safety-training program.
     4.5.5. Conduct radiation safety self inspections at least annually and forward a copy of the self
     inspection to the 31 FW RSO.
  4.6. Supervisors will:
     4.6.1. Ensure all newly assigned personnel whose duties involve potential ionizing radiation
     exposure are identified to the 31 FW RSO for possible entry into the USAF Personnel Dosimetry
     Program.
     4.6.2. Maintain an inventory of all ionizing radiation sources used in their workplace.
     4.6.3. Immediately report all suspected overexposures or incidents to the 31 FW RSO.
  4.7. Workers will:
     4.7.1. Protect themselves and fellow workers from excess radiation exposure by following all
     established procedures.
     4.7.2. Immediately report all suspected overexposure or incident to their supervisor or unit RSO.
  4.8. 31st Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander will:
     4.8.1. Ensure procedures are in place to monitor all receipts of radioactive materials in accordance
     with Title 10, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 20, Section 1906 (10 CFR 20.1906), Proce-
     dures for Receiving and Opening Packages.
     4.8.2. Designate dedicated storage areas for radioactive material and ensure surveys are per-
     formed annually.
     4.8.3. Ensure procedures are in place to monitor all shipments of radioactive materials in accor-
     dance with Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 173 (49 CFR 173), Subpart I-Class 7
     (Radioactive Materials).
     4.8.4. Designate a dedicated storage area for radioactive material awaiting transport.
4                                                                AVIANOABI48-110 4 AUGUST 2005


    4.9. 31st Civil Engineering Commander will ensure all plans for modification of facilities or design
    of new facilities which involve the use of radioactive material or ionizing radiation producing devices
    are reviewed by the 31 FW RSO.
    4.10. The using organization will include a requirement that contractors possess a valid Nuclear Reg-
    ulatory Commission License or similar host country license in all requests for contracts that contem-
    plate the use of a radioactive source on base. Verification of a Nuclear Regulatory Commission
    License or similar host country license can be obtained through coordination with the 31 FW RSO at
    least 45 days prior to start of work.
    4.11. The 31 FW Judge Advocate will provide assistance and advice to the 31 FW RSO on host coun-
    try requirements dealing with the shipment, storage, and disposal of radioactive material.

5. Plans and Procedures for Keeping Exposures ALARA.
    5.1. 31 AMDS/SGPB will conduct workplace evaluations in accordance with AFOSH Standard
    48-145, Occupational Health Program, to identify all tasks with potential exposure to ionizing radia-
    tion.
       5.1.1. Specific guidelines will be developed for each task involving potential exposure to ionizing
       radiation to keep exposures ALARA.
       5.1.2. Guidelines will be communicated to workplace supervisors in conjunction with 31 AMDS/
       SGPB industrial hygiene survey reports.
    5.2. All evaluations and ALARA guidelines will be reviewed and approved by the 31 FW RSO or
    alternate.

6. Personnel Dosimetry Program.
    6.1. 31 AMDS/SGPB will implement the Personnel Dosimetry Program under the direction of the 31
    FW RSO in accordance with AFI 48-125. Personnel will be identified for this program based upon
    workplace exposure evaluations conducted in accordance with paragraph 5. above. All required docu-
    mentation will be maintained by 31 AMDS/SGPB.
    6.2. 31 AMDS/SGPB will develop and maintain a local operating instruction to identify workplaces
    on the Personnel Dosimetry Program, monitoring frequencies, types of thermoluminescent dosime-
    ters, and locally developed training and information on the program.
    6.3. Supervisors or workplaces monitored on the USAF Personnel Dosimetry Program will notify 31
    AMDS/SGPB of all newly assigned workers prior to the performances of duties that will potentially
    expose them to ionizing radiation.
    6.4. An investigative action level of 50 millirems per quarter is established for all workplaces moni-
    tored under the Personnel Dosimetry Program. This is a relatively low level due to the unlikely poten-
    tial to exceed this level under normal operating conditions in any of the areas monitored within the 31
    FW.

7. Performance of Radiation Surveys.
    7.1. The 31 FW RSO will conduct routine surveillance of all areas where radioactive materials or
    radiation producing devices are used or stored. The specific survey and monitoring requirements of
AVIANOABI48-110 4 AUGUST 2005                                                                            5


   USAF Radioactive Material Permits will be complied with where applicable. Other sources of radia-
   tion exposure will be surveyed, monitored, and documented according to existing Air Force direc-
   tives, or annually as a minimum.
   7.2. Public dose exposure calculations will be performed for areas where radioactive materials or
   radiation producing devices are used or stored to ensure that public access areas will not expose per-
   sonnel to radiation levels greater than 100 millirem per year.

8. Leak Testing Procedures. Supervisors or workplaces with radioactive material which requires leak
testing will accomplish required leak tests in accordance with USAF Radioactive Material Permits, appli-
cable manufacturers instructions, and Air Force Technical Orders. Leak tests will be coordinated with 31
AMDS/SGPB for the assignment of sample numbers and shipment to an approved analytical laboratory.
Results will be reported to both 31 AMDS/SGPB and the workplace supervisor.

9. Inventory Procedures. The 31 FW RSO will maintain the master installation inventory of radioactive
material users and sources or ionizing radiation. Supervisors of workplaces with radioactive materials will
maintain inventories in accordance with their USAF Radioactive Material Permits, AFI 40-201, Manag-
ing Radioactive Materials in the USAF, or TO 00-110N-3, Requisition, Handling, Storage, and Identifi-
cation of Radioactive Material. Supervisors will maintain records of all receipts, transfers, recycling and
disposal of radioactive material.

10. Procedures for Receiving, Storing, Shipping, Recycling and Disposing of Radioactive Materi-
als.
   10.1. Receiving.
       10.1.1. Upon receipt of radioactive material or commodities containing radioisotopes, the individ-
       ual user or appropriate storage organization will monitor the item in accordance with TO
       00-110N-3 and 10 CFR 20.1906. The 31 FW RSO will be contacted for receipt of all packages
       labeled as Radioactive White I, Yellow II, or Yellow III.
       10.1.2. The container should be visually inspected and labeled with Air Force Technical Order
       (AFTO) Form 9B, Caution Radioactive material, as required by TO 00-110N-3. The properly
       packaged and labeled radioactive material should be forwarded immediately to the using organi-
       zation or approved storage area as applicable.
       10.1.3. Isolate the container and notify the 31 FW RSO if the shipments are received damaged,
       seal broken, or tampered with.
       10.1.4. Users will annotate inventories to indicate receipt and condition of the material.
   10.2. Storing.
       10.2.1. All storage areas for radioactive material must be approved by the 31 FW RSO.
       Requests for approval of a storage area will be submitted in writing to 31 AMDS/SGPB and will
       include the following information:
           10.2.1.1. Building number of proposed area.
           10.2.1.2. Description and approximate quantity of material to be stored.
           10.2.1.3. Provisions to preclude unauthorized removal of radioactive material.
6                                                                AVIANOABI48-110 4 AUGUST 2005


           10.2.1.4. Identification of an individual and an alternate who are responsible for the storage
           area.
       10.2.2. The supervisor of approved storage areas will maintain an inventory to identify materials
       received, removed, or transferred.
       10.2.3. Incident notification procedures for the storage area will be posted in a conspicuous loca-
       tion.
       10.2.4. Storage areas and materials contained will be marked or labeled according to TO
       00-110N-3.
       10.2.5. The 31 FW RSO will survey storage areas at least annually.
    10.3. Shipping.
       10.3.1. All shipments of radioactive materials will be coordinated through the 31st Logistics
       Readiness Squadron Traffic Management Flight (31 LRS/LGTT).
       10.3.2. 31 LRS/LGTT will prepare the item for shipment and contact 31 AMDS/SGPB for
       required monitoring to ensure compliance with 49 CFR 173.
    10.4. Recycling or disposal.
       10.4.1. Do not dispose of any radioactive material (including electron tubes) in the trash.
       10.4.2. Contact the 31 FW RSO for all requests regarding recycling (see examples listed in
       Attachment 2) or disposition instructions for all radioactive materials that are no longer needed
       for mission requirements.

11. USAF Radioactive Material Permit Procedures. Procedures are adequately established in AFI
40-201. Supervisors wanting to procure radioactive material subject to AFI 40-201 will forward a copy of
the required permit application to the 31 FW RSO for review and approval prior to submittal to the USAF
Radioisotope Committee. Requests for renewal of existing USAF Radioactive Material Permits must be
initiated by the using organization and forwarded to the 31 FW RSO 90 days prior to the pending expira-
tion date of the existing permit.

12. Quality Assurance Procedures.
    12.1. The 31 FW RSO will review all personnel dosimetry results within five duty days of receipt to
    verify compliance with established investigative action limit of 50 millirems per quarter. All expo-
    sures in excess of this level will be investigated within 5 duty days of this review. Results above the
    overexposure action level, abnormal exposure action level, or pregnant female action limit will be
    investigated by the 31 FW RSO immediately.
    12.2. The 31 FW RSO will annually review the Radiation Protection Program and report findings to
    the Aerospace Medicine Council and the 31 FW Commander through the 31 FW Combined Safety
    Council. The review will include:
       12.2.1. A review of all local implementing directives to ensure they are current.
       12.2.2. A review of all radiation survey results for the past year to ensure that adverse trends are
       noted and appropriate action has been taken on results that exceed standards or action levels.
AVIANOABI48-110 4 AUGUST 2005                                                                               7


       12.2.3. A review of all personnel dosimetry results for the past year to ensure that adverse trends
       are noted and appropriate action has been taken on results that exceed standards or action levels.
       12.2.4. An update of the radiation source and radioactive material inventory.
       12.2.5. A review of all USAF Radioactive Material Permits to ensure currency and compliance
       with requirements.

13. Review of Plans for Construction/Contractors. The using organization will ensure all plans for
modification of facilities or design of new facilities involving the use of radioactive material or radiation
producing devices are reviewed by the 31 FW RSO to ensure ALARA is considered. The using organiza-
tion must obtain 31 FW RSO approval prior to requesting a contract that contemplates a contractor bring-
ing radioactive material on-base (i.e., troxlers, soil density gauges, etc.).

14. Training. Workplace supervisors, with the assistance of the 31 FW RSO, will develop and conduct
radiation safety training. Radiation safety training is required for all individuals working in or frequenting
any portion of an area where radioactive material or radiation producing devices are used. All training
plans must be approved by the 31 FW RSO. Initial training will be conducted before, or as soon as possi-
ble after, assignment to work areas involving radiation. Annual refresher training will be conducted to
reemphasize and reinforce training objectives. The level of training should be tailored to the specific cat-
egory of personnel and the hazard presented. An example of training effectiveness questions can be found
in Attachment 3. Documentation of training and training effectiveness will be maintained locally by the
workplace supervisor and a copy will be forwarded to 31 AMDS/SGPB for inclusion in the workplace
case file. Training shall include: risk from radiation exposure; health risks to children of women who are
occupationally exposed to radiation during pregnancy; maximum permissible dose limits; protective mea-
sures required (tailored to the specific radiation work); and ALARA philosophy and practices.

15. Incidents Involving Radiation.
   15.1. Commanders, Unit RSOs, Supervisors, and Workers will immediately report any of the follow-
   ing incidents to the 31 FW RSO:
       15.1.1. Any loss of control of radioactive material.
       15.1.2. Any unusual or unexpected event that results in unplanned radiation exposure (actual or
       possible) to any individual.
       15.1.3. Any spill or release of radioactive material to the environment.
       15.1.4. The discovery that radioactive materials are lost, stolen, or otherwise missing from their
       designated place of storage or use.
       15.1.5. Any act of nature that poses a serious threat to the normal storage or use of radioactive
       materials or other radiation producing devices.
       15.1.6. Any defect or damage to radioactive materials or radiation producing devices.
       15.1.7. Any deviation or failure to comply with the provisions of a radioactive material permit,
       governing regulation, technical order, or this instruction.
       15.1.8. Any diagnostic or therapeutic misadministration.
       15.1.9. The discovery of unidentifiable radioactive material.
8                                                                AVIANOABI48-110 4 AUGUST 2005


    15.2. The supervisor will gather all facts about the incident to adequately describe what happened.
    15.3. The supervisor should instruct any witnesses to the incident to write down what they saw.
    Emphasis on the time and duration of occurrences is important.
    15.4. The 31 FW RSO will notify 31 FW Judge Advocate and determine the requirement for other
    notification based on governing regulations.
    15.5. The 31 FW RSO will further investigate the incident with the unit RSO.
    15.6. In case of broken or damaged radioactive materials, the area will be cleared of all personnel not
    required in evaluation of the condition, recovery of the radioisotope, or decontamination of the area or
    material. The area will be secured. In cases of air suspension of contamination by ingestible radioac-
    tive material, doors and windows will be closed and ventilation equipment turned off. The 31 FW
    RSO, unit RSO, supervisors, and other directly concerned personnel will be notified immediately. A
    survey of the area will be conducted to determine the extent of the radiological hazard. The 31 FW
    RSO will direct the decontamination or recovery operations as necessary. Broken or damaged items
    will be safely packaged and disposed of in accordance with TO 00-110N-2, Radioactive Waste Dis-
    posal.



                                                PHILIP M. BREEDLOVE, Brigadier General, USAF
                                                Commander, 31st Fighter Wing
AVIANOABI48-110 4 AUGUST 2005                                                                              9


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 20, Section 1906, Procedures for Receiving and Opening
Packages
Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 173, Subpart I - Class 7 (Radioactive Materials)
TO 00-100N-2, Radioactive Waste Disposal
TO 00-110N-3, Requisition, Handling, Storage, and Identification of Radioactive Material
TO 00-100N-7, Handling and Disposition of Radioactive Electron Tubes and Spark Gaps
AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the USAF
AFI 48-125, The US Air Force Personnel Dosimetry Program
Department of Defense Instruction 6055.8, Occupational Radiation Protection Program
HQ AFMSC/SGPA Memo, Implementation of the ALARA Concept in the Air Force Radiation Protection
Program, 17 Oct 84

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Prevention, and Health
ALARA—As Low As Reasonably Achievable
BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineer
OI—Operating Instruction
RSO—Radiation Safety Officer
TLD—Thermoluminescent Dosimeter
TO—Technical Order

Terms
ALARA Concept—The ALARA concept is the set of management and administrative actions taken to
reduce personnel radiation dose to as low a level as possible consistent with existing technology costs,
and operational requirements. The ALARA concept was developed in response to scientific evidence that
suggests that no level of radiation exposure is totally risk free. While established maximum permissible
doses are conservative and offer a low risk of adverse health effects compared to other hazards of life and
occupation, it is prudent that every effort be made to reduce exposure to the lowest level that is reasonably
achievable and thereby lower the health risk associated with that exposure.
Permit RSO—An individual designated by the unit commander and approved, when required, by the
United States Air Force Radioisotope Committee (HQ AFMOA/SGOR) to manage the radiation
protection aspects associated with the use of radioactive material for which a specific USARF
Radioactive Material Permit has been issued.
10                                                               AVIANOABI48-110 4 AUGUST 2005


Personnel Dosimetry—A system whereby Bioenvironmental Engineering personnel place
thermoluminescent dosimeters (TLD) on selected personnel to monitor and document occupational
exposures to ionizing radiation. Normally, TLDs are exchanged quarterly.
Radiation Safety Officer (RSO)—An individual designated by the wing commander to manage the base
Radiation Protection Program. The RSO provides consultation and advice on the hazards associated with
radiation and on the effectiveness of measures to control these hazards.
Unit Radiation Safety Officer (RSO)—An individual designated by the unit commander to act as the
single focal point for the unit in radiation protection matters. Each unit that operates radiation producing
devices or uses radioactive materials will appoint a unit RSO. This individual coordinates radiation
survey or hazard evaluation activities with the 31 FW RSO, assists in investigations of suspected or actual
overexposures, and performs those duties at the unit level that are commensurate with their training and
experience.
Unrestricted Storage Area—An unrestricted storage area is an area where the radiation intensity at one
foot from any single container or item in storage configuration dose not exceed two milliRoentgen per
hour. The 31 FW RSO will perform annual radiation protection surveys in these areas.
Restricted Storage Area—A restricted storage area is an area where the radiation intensity is in excess of
two milliRoentgen per hour at one foot from any single container or item in the storage configuration. The
Unit RSO will perform quarterly radiation protection surveys in these areas under the guidance of the 31
FW RSO. The interior and exterior of each restricted area must be posted with appropriate AFTO placards
according to TO 00-110N-3.
Overexposure Action Level—A personnel dosimetry result that exceeds the maximum permissible dose
of 5000 millirem. Formal investigation and documentation of the incident is required.
Abnormal Exposure Action Level—Personnel dosimetry result that, if continued on an annual basis,
would result in an overexposure. This equates to 417 millirem on a monthly badge or 1250 millirem on a
quarterly badge. A formal investigation to determine the cause of the exposure must be made.
Pregnant Female Action Level—Personnel dosimetry result that, if continued for the term of pregnancy,
would exceed the 500 millirem exposure limit for the fetus. This equates to approximately 50 millirem on
a monthly thermoluminescent dosimeter. Personnel dosimetry results above this level must be
investigated and the results of investigation reported to the Aerospace Medicine Council. Actions must be
taken to ensure the total dose to the fetus does not exceed 500 millirem during the term of the pregnancy.
AVIANOABI48-110 4 AUGUST 2005                                                               11


                                      Attachment 2

                EXAMPLES OF RECYCLABLE/RECOVERABLE MATERIALS


Radionuclide        Form                         Examples
Tritium (3H)        Gaseous Only. NO OXIDES      Compasses, Wrist Watches, Markers (i.e. Exit
                                                 Signs, Buttons, Indicators, etc.).
Depleted Uranium    NO Other Attached Metals     Counterweights, Non-Explosive Munitions
                                                 (Penetrators ONLY).
Krypton 85          Gas                          Electron Tubes, Nucleonic Oil Indicators, and
                                                 RADIAC Check Sources.
Americium 241       Solid                        Smoke Detectors, M8A1 Chemical Agent
                                                 Alarm.
Polonium 210        Solid                        Static Elimination Devices (typically
                                                 manufactured by NRD or NPL) NO 3M
                                                 devices.
Cesium 137          Solid                        Exempt distribution check sources (AN/PDR
                                                 27T, Button Sources) less than 9.0
                                                 microcuries.
12                                                             AVIANOABI48-110 4 AUGUST 2005


                                             Attachment 3

                     AS LOW AS REASONABLY ACHIEVABLE (ALARA)
                    RADIATION TRAINING EFFECTIVENESS QUESTIONS
1. What is the ALARA principle and practice?
2. What office is the 31 FW Radiation Safety Officer located in?
3. How often are radiation safety self inspection required?
4. What type(s) of radiation does your shop use?
5. What are some health risks from radiation exposure?
6. What are the health risks to children of women who are occupationally exposed to radiation during
pregnancy?
7. What is the maximum permissible radiation dose limit for personnel in your shop?
8. What protective measures, if any, are required to keep personnel exposure ALARA?
