BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          AVIANO AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 90-502
AVIANO AB (USAFE)
                                                                            14 DECEMBER 2009

                                                                             Special Management

                                                            AVIANO AIR BASE COMMUNIITY
                                                                             STANDARDS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 31 FW/CCC                                                            Certified by: 31 FW/CC
Supersedes: AVIANOABI90-502,                                      (Brig Gen Charles Q. Brown Jr.)
            16 May 2008                                                                  Pages: 12


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-501, Community Action Information
Board. This policy applies to all U.S. military members, and U.S. civilian employees assigned
to, visiting, or performing temporary duty (TDY) at the 31st Fighter Wing (31 FW), Aviano Air
Base, Italy (including tenant organizations, Reservists and ANG members on Title 10). All
military personnel, (regardless of branch of service or component), permanently assigned,
attached, TDY, or on leave in Italy are subject to the articles of the U.S.–Republic of Italy Status
of Forces Agreement (SOFA), and the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Any conflict
between this document and formally promulgated instructions, regulations, or other such orders
is to be resolved in favor of the instruction, regulation, or order. Commanders at all levels are
responsible for the application of and compliance with this instruction. Refer recommended
changes and questions to this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using
the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change to Publication; route AF IMT 847s through the
appropriate chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located in AF Records Management System (AFRIMS):
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims/index.cfm.

1. Commander’s Responsibility. Commanders will ensure all newly assigned members to
their units review the Community Standards within five calendar days of their arrival.
2. Customs, Courtesies and Conduct. We are guests in Italy. Our conduct on and off-duty is
extremely important to U.S.-Italian relations. All Airmen, DoD civilians, and family members
are expected to behave in a manner that reflects positively on the United States Air Force and our
Nation. U.S. service members will execute appropriate customs and courtesies to all Italian Air
2                                                    AVIANOABI90-502 14 DECEMBER 2009


Force personnel. This includes paying the proper respect for the Italian Flag and Anthem during
retreat. Members in uniform should come to attention and render the appropriate salute during
the playing of both the Italian and American anthems. Family members will stand quietly and
face the music or flag until the last note of the American anthem is played. It is customary for
family members to place their right hand over their heart during the playing of the American
National Anthem. All Airmen and sister service members are prohibited from:
    2.1. Acting in a manner that reflects poorly or unfavorably upon the United States of
    America.
    2.2. Disrespectful or derogatory action/conduct or speech directed toward an Italian
    National, another military member, civilian, dependent, or anyone of unknown national
    origin.
    2.3. Using foul and/or obscene language or being loud and obnoxious in public in such a
    manner that brings unfavorable attention on the military member or the United States of
    America.
    2.4. Wearing offensive or profane clothing such as t-shirts, shirts or other attire and/or
    accessories with slogans that are offensive or could be interpreted to be offensive, or which
    contain words that are considered to be obscene in polite society.
    2.5. Sleeping in a club, bar, restaurant or other public place due to excessive drinking.
    2.6. Punching, hitting, kicking or otherwise striking/damaging any public or government
    property.
    2.7. Photographing flight line operations without permission of authorized Public Affairs or
    Base Operations personnel.
    2.8. Littering on or off-base.
    2.9. Displaying or affixing obscene, profane bumper stickers or emblems on privately owned
    vehicles. Playing loud music while traveling or parked in a privately owned vehicle.
3. Safety. Everybody’s a leader when it comes to safety. If something doesn’t look right or
someone is deviating from established procedures or checklists, call a knock-it-off and correct
the situation. Although safety is a commander’s program, first-line supervisors can be the
wing’s most influential leaders and role models.
    3.1. Always have a wingman. Travel or go out on the town in groups of two or more for
    mutual support. Criminals and vandals are less likely to bother people when they are in a
    group.
    3.2. Your group should always have a designated driver (DD) to get everyone home safely.
    The DD does NOT drink. The DD is also the first to recognize when someone in the group
    has had too much to drink and is getting out of control. The DD is the one who steps in and
    keeps someone from hurting or embarrassing themselves or our Air Force in public.
    3.3. In the unlikely circumstance that you’re out alone, and you’ve had too much to drink,
    and are thinking about driving - DON’T DO IT! Always carry a cell phone and always have
    the courage to call someone in the 31 FW or call Airmen Against Drunk Driving at 632-5938
    (0434-30-5938) for a ride. Someone will come to the rescue and will applaud your sound
    judgment.
AVIANOABI90-502 14 DECEMBER 2009                                                                 3


4. Vehicle Licensing. IAW Italian traffic laws the driving age in Italy is 18 years of age.
Vehicles can be purchased from other military members, on the economy or from AAFES
vendors. Personnel desiring to drive in Italy must have an Armed Forces Italy (AFI) license.
Licensing is conducted at Right Start or through the 31st Logistics Readiness Squadron
(31 LRS). Visiting family members may qualify to drive an AFI plated vehicle if visiting for
less than 60 days. They will have to review the local signs and traffic laws and then complete
the necessary paperwork at Pass and ID. Under Italian law, vehicle owners must maintain, at a
minimum, liability insurance. Insurance is required regardless of the vehicle’s operational status.
All personnel must display an insurance expiration card issued by their company on their front
windshield. For specifics on any of the above, please consult AI 31-204 or contact the Pass and
Registration office at 632-7769.
5. PMV and Motorcycle Safety. Traffic accidents are high interest item for the 31 FW.
Aviano local driving conditions are much different than one might experience in CONUS and
must be taken into account. Aviano Airmen, DoD civilians, and family members are at fault for
the majority the reported accidents. The primary causes are excessive speed and inattention. All
Aviano Airmen, DoD civilians, and family members put their driving privileges at risk with
aggressive driving habits and/or multiple accidents. An AFI license is a privilege, not a right.
   5.1. Prior to receiving a motorcycle endorsement on their AFI license, all motorcycle
   operators must have ―MOTORCYCLE‖ endorsed on their stateside license and complete the
   Aviano Course IV (Motor Safety Foundation Course).        Contact your unit motorcycle
   representative for sign up requirements and course dates.
   5.2. Prior to completion of the 31 FW motorcycle safety course, motorcyclists will not be
   authorized to ride, borrow or rent a motorcycle or moped.
   5.3. Motorcyclists will wear correct protective gear when operating a motorcycle or moped.
   Required personal protective equipment includes the following (IAW AFI 91-207 paragraph
   3.4.2.4):
       5.3.1. European Union (EU) approved helmet. Operator must also wear full face shield
       or impact resistant goggles on their helmets, unless their motorcycle is equipped with a
       windshield
       5.3.2. Long sleeve shirt or jacket
       5.3.3. Long trousers
       5.3.4. Full finger motorcycle gloves or mittens
       5.3.5. Sturdy footwear. Leather boots or over the ankle shoes are encouraged.
       5.3.6. Motorcycle riders will wear a brightly colored outer upper garment (orange, safety
       red, safety green, or yellow) during the day and a reflective upper garment during the
       night. Outer upper garment shall be visible and not covered. Wearing a backpack is
       authorized if it has brightly colored/reflective properties. Reflective belts strewn across
       shoulders do not meet this requirement.
6. Personal Protective Equipment. All personnel who ride bicycles, skateboards, in-line
skates, roller blades, etc., must wear a properly secured and approved helmet and a reflective
vest at all times (day and night). Bicycle helmets must be approved by the American National
Standards Institute, Snell Foundation, or the Department of Transportation, and specifically
4                                                     AVIANOABI90-502 14 DECEMBER 2009


designed for cycling. Bicycles will be equipped with front and rear reflectors and headlight.
Bicycles will be equipped with a headlight on the front which will emit a white light, visible
from at least 500 feet to the front and a red reflector and tail light on the rear visible from at least
150 feet to the rear. Bicyclists will have their headlights turned on if riding, one hour before
sunset to one hour after sunrise or during periods of reduced visibility or during inclement
weather. The wear of knee, wrist and elbow pads is mandatory for all roller bladers, roller
skaters and skateboarders. Note for all leased family housing residents: The use of skateboards,
roller blade scooters or roller skates on public roads is prohibited by Article 46 and Article 190
of the Italian Street Code. They also cannot be used in pedestrian areas if they create any danger
for pedestrians.
7. Wear of Reflective Gear. All U.S. personnel in military uniform or performing physical
training (PT) will wear the reflective safety belt or vest while outdoors during hours of darkness.
Hours of darkness are defined as 15 minutes before sunset until 15 minutes after sunrise. The
only exception to this rule applies to uniformed security forces personnel when on duty,
including augmentees. 31st Security Forces personnel must wear reflective gear when traveling
to and from work. Personnel wearing civilian attire are also highly encouraged to wear reflective
gear.
8. Fitness and Safety. To provide maximum protection for personnel participating in physical
fitness activities in a traffic environment (roads and streets), personnel will wear a reflective
safety belt or vest as part of the upper outer-garment during the hours of darkness. The wear of
the USAF PT uniform satisfies reflective gear requirements
    8.1. Personnel will minimize their activities on the Area F perimeter road during the peak
    traffic hours of 0630 – 0800 and 1600 – 1700. Personnel can exercise off the paved surface
    or on the other roads during those times.
    8.2. Personnel who run in formation on the Area F perimeter road will have road guards
    wearing reflective vests positioned in the front and rear of the formation and will run with the
    flow of traffic. During the hours of darkness, road guards will carry and use flashlights to
    alert vehicle operators of their presence.
    8.3. All personnel riding a bicycle, roller blading or running in military formations will do so
    with the flow of traffic.
    8.4. Individual joggers and walkers will conduct their exercise activities against the flow of
    traffic in single file. If jogging or walking on grassy areas of the north and south end of the
    runway, personnel will do so without creating a runway intrusion. Personnel will walk or
    jog outside of the yellow marking and will remain on the running path at the North end of the
    runway.
    8.5. Do not wear headphones while running, jogging, roller blading, walking or riding a
    bicycle in a traffic environment on and off-base (roads and streets). The only exception to
    this is the running path and the Fitness center running track. Headphones must be removed
    while on the running path when runners cross roads, driveways and parking lots.
9. Visitor and Escort Policy (Non-DoD ID Cardholders). In accordance with DoDD 5230.20,
DoD ID cardholders must comply with the following restriction when escorting non-DoD ID
cardholders (U.S. or foreign nationals) onto the installation.
AVIANOABI90-502 14 DECEMBER 2009                                                                     5


   9.1. The following is a list of designated countries that are of counterintelligence concern:
   Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania,
   Moldova, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nigeria, People’s Republic of China (including the island
   formerly known as Hong Kong), Russia, Taiwan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
   Uzbekistan, Vietnam. Access by citizens of these countries will be strictly controlled.
   Anyone who desires official access for personnel from these countries will comply with all
   Air Force and EUCOM regulations. Contact our local OSI at 632-7642 for further
   information.
       9.1.1. Non-DoD ID card holders not mentioned above may be escorted on to the
       installation for up to 24 hours. Non-dormitory residents are not permitted to stay
       overnight in the dormitories. Family members may visit for longer periods of time.
       9.1.2. DoD ID card holders under 18 years of age and high school students are prohibited
       from visiting the Aviano single unaccompanied dormitories without parental supervision.
10. Curfew Policy. The 31 FW/CC reserves the right to impose and/or change a curfew.
Curfews will be imposed via policy letter, posted on/at the Aviano Intranet, Post Office, Base
Exchange, Commissary, Squadron Bulletin Boards etc. All personnel will comply.
11. Local and Area Off-Limits Establishments. The 31 FW/CC reserves the right to establish
off-limits establishments as needed to help maintain discipline, health, morale, safety and
welfare of service members. Placing certain establishments off-limits is also intended to prevent
service members from being exposed to or victimized by crime-conducive conditions. Members
who enter ―off-limits‖ areas or establishments are subject to action under the Uniform Code of
Military Justice. Any questions concerning off-limits establishments must be resolved prior to
an Airman entering such an establishment. Commanders, first sergeants and chiefs will know
the designated off-limits establishments. Off-limits establishments will also be posted on the
Aviano Intranet and at the main Post Office.
12. Aviano Specific Off-Limits Roads.
   12.1. Roads and areas off-limits to all GMVs:
       12.1.1. Via Menegoz: the road behind Area D between Area E and the railroad underpass
       12.1.2. From the railroad underpass and Via Garibaldi (the serpentine road leading to the
       stoplight by Aviano Inn).
       12.1.3. Via Sacile in Aviano, the left hand turn before the traffic light at the grey mall.
       12.1.4. Roads north of mountain highway including those leading to Piancavallo, Barcis
       and Mezzomonte.
       12.1.5. Via Pedemonte: the road leading to the mountain highway (accessed by turning
       left out of Area 1).
       12.1.6. The town of Castello di Aviano and all roads leading into this town.
   12.2. Exemptions to off-limits roads and areas:
       12.2.1. Emergency response vehicles (law enforcement, medical and fire response) and
       GMVs conducting official investigations may proceed on off-limits roads and through the
       underpass only when responding to emergencies. Emergency response vehicles
6                                                  AVIANOABI90-502 14 DECEMBER 2009


       performing normal transit between Areas 1 and 2 and the flight line will adhere to the
       above policies and use the main road through Aviano. Command and Control vehicles
       may operate on off-limits roads and through the underpass at the discretion of unit
       commanders.
       12.2.2. The 31st Civil Engineer Squadron (31 CES) Housing Flight is exempt in entirety
       from this policy for the purpose of local housing acquisition and inspection.
       12.2.3. Armed Forces Network (AFN) for transmitter servicing and film shoots only.
       12.2.4. Traffic Management Office (TMO) for the purpose of quality control visits
       during household goods inspections.
       12.2.5. TDY personnel who are lodged north of ―mountain highway‖ may use their
       GMV to drive to their lodging site (i.e., GMVs may be used for transport to lodging at
       Hotel Prata Plana on the road to Piancavallo).
13. Dress and Appearance. AFI 36-2903, Dress and Appearance of Air Force Personnel,
provides guidance and standards on the proper wear of our uniform.
    13.1. Off-Base Uniform Wear. Members are reminded that wear of the ABU, BDU and
    Flight Suit have specific off-installation wear restrictions outlined in Table 2.7. of AFI 36-
    2903. Some examples of situations in which the uniform can be worn off base are:
       13.1.1. Short convenience stops at establishments such as service stations, childcare
       facilities, post office, hardware stores, etc.
    13.1.2. Dining at eating establishments in the local area where comparable civilian attire is
    worn. Remember that the lunch time services provided in the local restaurants are different
    than the dinner time services. ABUs, BDUs and Flight Suits may be an acceptable option for
    lunch dining, but is not comparable attire observed during the evening meal services and is
    therefore not approved. Personnel should also not wear physical training gear while dining
    off-base. We not only want to display a professional image, but remember that force
    protection is also a concern.
       13.1.3. Performing official duty at the Venice/Treviso airports to include sponsor duties.
    13.2. Individuals are responsible to present a professional military image, and procure and
    maintain all mandatory clothing items. All uniforms will be neat, clean, pressed (if required)
    buttoned, and properly maintained.
    13.3. Members will not wear offensive or profane clothing such as t-shirts, shirts or other
    attire and/or accessories with slogans that are offensive or could be interpreted to be
    offensive, or which contain words that are considered to be obscene in polite society.
    Additionally, members will not stand or walk with hands in pockets of any uniform
    combination, other than to insert or remove items. New guidance now allows the use of
    cellular devices while in uniform. This does not include hands free devices or blue-tooth
    devices. The policy still requires the appropriate level of customs and courtesies when
    applicable. Members also may not drink or eat while walking in uniform.
    13.4. Body Piercing.
       13.4.1. In Uniform: Members are prohibited from attaching, affixing or displaying
       objects, articles, jewelry or ornamentation to or through the ear, nose, tongue, eye brows,
AVIANOABI90-502 14 DECEMBER 2009                                                                 7


       lips or any exposed body part (includes visible through the uniform). EXCEPTION :
       Women are authorized to wear one pair of conservative earrings.
       13.4.2. Civilian Attire: Official Duty: Members are prohibited from attaching, affixing
       or displaying objects, articles, jewelry or ornamentation to or through the ear, nose,
       tongue, eye brows, lips or any exposed body part (includes visible through clothing).
       EXCEPTION : Women are authorized to wear one pair of conservative earrings.
       13.4.3. Civilian Attire: Off-duty while On-base: Members are prohibited from
       attaching, affixing or displaying objects, articles, jewelry or ornamentation to or through
       the nose, tongue, eye brows, lips or any exposed body part (includes visible through
       clothing). Piercing of earlobes by women is allowed, but should not be extreme or
       excessive.
14. Tobacco Use Policy. Smoking and tobacco use (includes snuff, dip, etc.) are restricted to
approved designated tobacco use areas whether in uniform or civilian clothes. The 31 CES
Commander will designate tobacco use areas for outside all dormitories. The 31st Medical
Group in Area 1 and all satellite sites are no smoking areas. The front entrance of the Bella Vista
Club, the Base Exchange (BX), Commissary, Mass Briefing Facility (AAFES movie theater),
U.S. Post Office, Airman and Family Readiness Center, Community Activities Center and
Fitness Centers are no smoking areas. Commanders will designate outside tobacco use areas for
their work centers. These designated areas will not be located near (front or rear) entrances of
any facility or customer service areas. When possible, designate tobacco use areas that provide
some protection from the elements. Tobacco use is permitted on the golf course. You must also
observe no smoking areas in Italian restaurants and other public venues. Members may not
smoke or use smokeless tobacco, while walking in uniform.
15. Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages/Open Containers. The legal drinking age on base is
18 years of age. Glass bottles are prohibited at all outdoor events on base.
   15.1. Military personnel off-base may consume alcoholic beverages outdoors, at bars,
   restaurants, festivals, and community events when the outdoor area is associated with the
   facility (e.g., benches, pavilions, etc.), festival, or event.
   15.2. Military personnel, civilians, and family members will not bring alcoholic beverages to
   military affiliated functions where alcohol will be sold (e.g., 31st Force Support Squadron
   (31 FSS) sponsored events, etc.).
   15.3. You may only consume alcoholic beverages on base within facilities authorized to
   serve alcohol, picnic areas, dormitories and housing units, and at squadron or wing events
   (such as hail and farewells, birthdays, 31 FSS-sponsored social and sporting events).
   15.4. You may not walk to and from events, buildings, facilities, etc., while possessing an
   open alcoholic container, including, but not limited to, an open glass or plastic bottle, can or
   cup. You may not enter or leave the base while possessing an open alcoholic container.
   15.5. 31 FW/CC may restrict or prohibit the sale, purchase, possession, or consumption of
   alcohol during wing exercises and inspections, or when required by military necessity.
   15.6. High school students 18 years of age or older are not allowed to purchase or consume
   alcohol from any on-base facility such as the Shoppette or 31 FSS clubs.
8                                                  AVIANOABI90-502 14 DECEMBER 2009


16. Substance Abuse. The policy on substance abuse is plain and simple: the illegal use of
drugs or abuse of alcohol by Air Force personnel is a serious breach of discipline and not
compatible with service in the Air Force.
    16.1. All Aviano personnel must support the following programs to ensure they are used
    optimally to deter, prevent and treat substance abuse problems affecting our members.
       16.1.1. The Air Force provides comprehensive clinical assistance to eligible beneficiaries
       seeking help for an alcohol problem. The Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and
       Treatment (ADAPT) Program is designed to address prevention, education and treatment
       needs of military members, retirees, and their eligible family members. If you feel you
       have a problem or think someone you know may have a problem, be a leader and contact
       your first sergeant – they can help you.
       16.1.2. The Drug Demand and Reduction Program works constantly to deter drug use
       through random urinalysis, after-hours sweep testing as requested, drug use education
       and interaction with AF Office of Special Investigation, Staff Judge Advocate and
       ADAPT.
17. Equal Opportunity and Treatment Policy. The Air Force and 31 FW have a zero
tolerance policy on unlawful discrimination or harassment on the basis of race, color, national
origin, religion, sex (to include sexual harassment) or for civilian employees and applicants, age
or disability.
18. Professional and Unprofessional Relationships. Improper relationships have a negative
impact on morale, good order and discipline, respect for authority, unit cohesion and the mission
and will not be tolerated. All unprofessional relationships are subject to action under the
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). An unprofessional relationship between an officer
and an enlisted person may constitute fraternization, subjecting the officer to punitive action
under the UCMJ. Commanders will ensure all personnel receive an annual briefing on AFI
36-2909, Professional and Unprofessional Relationships.
19. Human Trafficking. Human trafficking is the illegal practice of procuring human beings
for unpaid work (often prostitution) in physically abusive settings and locations from which they
are not allowed to leave. The UCMJ specifically criminalizes prostitution and ―pandering,‖
accepting money in exchange for sex, compelling, inducing, enticing, or procuring a person to
have sex in exchange for money; and receiving money for arranged sex. In addition, the Military
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act allows for prosecution of DoD civilians (including military
dependents and civilian contractors) in U.S. federal court for violations of U.S. law, including
human trafficking offenses.
20. Family Care Plan. All Air Force members with families will have family care
arrangements that reasonably cover all situations, both short and long term. Single parents, dual
military couples with dependents members, and members with civilian spouses who have unique
family situations, as determined by the commander or first sergeant, will complete and update
when necessary an AF IMT 357, Family Care Certification, in accordance with AFI 36-2908,
Family Care Plans.
21. Leave/Pass Policies. Leave and pass management are commander’s programs. Compliance
with AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, is mandatory.
AVIANOABI90-502 14 DECEMBER 2009                                                               9


22. DEROS Management Policies. DEROS and departure date management is a commander’s
program. Commanders coordinate/approve DEROS and departure date requests. PCS departure
from Aviano AB is based on the member’s DEROS month. Commanders are authorized to
retain a member for full duty utilization during their DEROS month.
   22.1. Establishing Port Call Dates. It is the unit commander’s responsibility to approve
   departure dates within the established DEROS month. Key factors in determining a final
   departure date include, but are not limited to, current manning, projected manning, and
   mission requirements. Unit commanders may retain a member until the last day of their
   DEROS month.
   22.2. DEROS Curtailment.        Departure prior to an established DEROS requires a
   recommendation from the member’s commander. All requests for DEROS curtailments will
   be approved by their respective group commander. Curtailments are processed through the
   Military Personnel Flight (MPF) and forwarded appropriately for final approval. Curtailment
   request are not processed through vMPF. Memorandum packages are coordinated through
   their respective group commanders. DEROS curtailments over 60 days must be approved by
   wing commander.
23. Health, Morale, and Welfare (HMW) Calls. HMW calls allow United States Air Forces
Europe (USAFE) members to stay connected to family during TDYs (14 days or longer) and
deployments; these calls boost morale and improve performance. To support our team,
authorized callers may place one 15-minute HMW call per week. The calling week begins on
Sunday and ends on Saturday. HMW calls may be placed at any hour (24/7); however, calls
placed during the duty day will not take precedence over official calls. HMW calls placed
directly to cellular phones are prohibited. This policy applies to all USAFE units and personnel
assigned TDY to the command.
24. Ration Control. The purpose of the Ration Control Program is to help prevent black
marketing, detect violators, and to ensure the availability of duty-free goods to all authorized
patrons.
   24.1. Black Marketing. Black marketing is the act of reselling duty-free goods purchased in
   a duty-free facility to persons not authorized to purchase duty-free goods. Black marketing is
   a criminal offense punishable under the UCMJ as well as Italian customs laws. Purchasing
   for individuals not authorized to use Army and Air Forces Exchange Services and the
   Defense Commissary Agency is also considered black marketing.
25. Pet Owners Policy. Each member assigned to Aviano AB, adopting, or purchasing a pet
must register their pet(s) with the Aviano Veterinary Treatment Facility (AVTF) no later than 30
days after arrival, adoption or purchase. In addition, all dogs, cats and ferrets must be
microchipped. If the pet has not been fitted with a microchip, the member will accomplish
microchipping within 30 days of arrival, adoption or purchase. If member places the pet up for
adoption or sale, they must notify the AVTF immediately of the pets transfer to new ownership.
26. Facility Appearance.
   26.1. Base Appearance. It is everyone’s responsibility to ensure refuse and recyclable
   materials are disposed of properly in clearly marked containers throughout the base. Facility
   managers will ensure that all areas within 50 feet of their facilities are kept clean and in
   accordance with base appearance standards. All work that requires 31 CES assistance
10                                                    AVIANOABI90-502 14 DECEMBER 2009


     (tree/hedge trimming, etc) will be coordinated through the customer service unit (DSN 632-
     5755).
     26.2. Built-to-Lease (BTL) Appearance. Occupants will comply with residence appearance
     standards found in the 31 FW’s BTL brochure. Contractors will cut the grass and maintain
     communal areas; however, occupants are still responsible for upkeep within their designated
     area. Occupants are encouraged to plant flower gardens and shrubs to beautify their areas.
     26.3. Government Rental Home Program (GRHP) and Economy Housing Appearance.
     Occupants will comply with appearance standards found in the 31 FW’s GRHP brochure
     and/or the Aviano Air Base Housing Relocation brochure. Occupant/tenant is responsible for
     performing interior cleaning and minor maintenance normally expected of a prudent home
     owner, as well as keeping lawns edged/trimmed and cleaning around the property as
     necessary to maintain a neat appearance. Members will dispose of trash/garbage/recyclables
     according to municipality/area-specific directions.
     26.4. Trash and Recycling in the Community. In Italy, recycling is required by law and not
     complying may result in fines. At home, separate trash in accordance with community rules.
     Each community in the region has different recycling requirements and each town has
     specific guidelines for recycling. Trash bins designed for glass, cans, plastics, paper,
     cardboard, wet waste and mixed dry waste are placed either throughout each community or
     you are given individual containers to separate the wastes. Information specific to your
     community is posted at http://www.aviano.af.mil/library/recycling.asp. For each of the
     communities listed you will also find a map indicating the nearest eco-platform where you
     must take large bulk items for disposal.
     26.5. Dormitory Appearance. Each dorm resident is issued the Aviano AB Dormitory
     Standards. Dormitories are centrally-managed, however, each occupant is responsible for
     their assigned room and common areas shared by each resident adjoining their rooms.
     Dormitory common areas/dayrooms are maintained by bay orderlies. All residents are
     responsible for ensuring refuse and recyclable materials are disposed of properly in clearly
     marked containers.
27. Fireworks. For safety purposes, all personnel assigned, attached, or TDY to Aviano AB are
prohibited from possessing, purchasing, selling, distributing, or detonating fireworks.
28. Military Pay. All personnel assigned to Aviano are responsible for ensuring their military
pay is correct. To do this, thoroughly review your Leave and Earnings Statement monthly.
Report errors to the Financial Services Office (FSO), as soon as they are discovered. Maximize
the use of online services such as MyPay or contact the FSO to make required pay changes.
Report changes in dependency status immediately to both the FSO and MPS. Ensure allotments,
etc. are being paid as directed (correct financial institution, account number, and amount).
29. Financial Responsibility. All personnel must be financially responsible. Contact the
Airman and Family Readiness Center for help with budgeting and or the FSO for pay inquiries.
Follow guidelines established in AFI 36-2906, Personal Financial Responsibility, paragraph 7,
and achieve financial responsibility by:
     29.1. Paying rent, utilities, and other personal debt on time.
AVIANOABI90-502 14 DECEMBER 2009                                                           11


  29.2. Ensure you account for foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. This is especially
  true for personnel who establish allotments to an on base bank to automatically pay rent,
  utilities, etc. With the dollar to euro value changing frequently, the allotment amount
  originally sent may not be enough to cover costs at a later date resulting in non-
  payment/underpayment. Increase or decrease allotments as needed to account for exchange
  rate fluctuations.




                                      CHARLES Q. BROWN, JR. Brigadier General, USAF
                                      Commander
12                                                AVIANOABI90-502 14 DECEMBER 2009


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 5230.20, Visits and Assignments of Foreign Nationals, 22 June 2005
AFI31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 14 July 2000
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 2 August 2006
AFI 36-2908, Family Care Plans, 1 October 2000
AFI 36-2909, Professional and Unprofessional Relationships, 1 May 1999
AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, 20 October 2005
AFI 91-207, The U.S. Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 22 May 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
ADAPT—Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment
AFI—Air Force Instruction or Armed Forces Italy
AVTF—Aviano Veterinary treatment Facility
BDU—Battle Dress Uniform
DD—Designated Driver
DEROS—Date Eligible For Return From Overseas
DoD—Department of Defense
DSN—Defense Switched Network
GMV—Government Motor Vehicle
GRHP—Government Rental Housing Program
ID—Identification
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
U.S.—United States
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
