BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AVIANO AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 31-401
AVIANO AIR BASE
                                                                          17 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                        Security

                                                     INSTALLATION SECURITY ADVISORY
                                                                     GROUP CHARTER




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 31 FW/IP                                                           Certified by: 31 FW/CV
                                                                        (Col Brent R. Vosseller)
Supersedes:   AVIANOABI31-401,                                                          Pages: 6
              16 October 2012


This instruction implements SAF/AA Information Protection Concept of Operations (IP
CONOPS) (Attach 2), dated 1 Jul 08 and AFI 31-401, Information Security Program
Management, dated 1 November 2005. It establishes the Installation Security Advisory Group
(ISAG) to serve as the single focal point for coordinating information protection efforts within
the installation, developing integrated wing level policy, and procedures for information
protection. Of note, detailed instructions and policy directives are in development and will be
published by SAF when approved. This instruction applies to all organizations on Aviano AB
and its geographically separated units (GSUs). Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This
publication is substantially revised and must be read in its entirety. Changes are made on
paragraphs 2.1 and 3.1.1.
 2                                                   AVIANOABI31-401 17 DECEMBER 2013


1. General.
     1.1. The ISAG will assist in providing a converged 31 FW enterprise approach to protection
     of wing information as an integrated group in direct support of the 31 FW mission.
     1.2. This is accomplished through a combination of policy development, guidance, and
     oversight of program execution, IP program processes, and organizational improvements.
     The group will limit the scope of its proceedings to information protection activities, but will
     include areas of security outside of information protection as required.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. The 31 FW/CV is the ISAG Chairman responsible for oversight of program execution
     and will provide direction/guidance for information protection implementation to the ISAG.
     Chairman responsibilities can be delegated to 31 MSG/CC, CD or civilian equivalent when
     the ISAG is combined with the Installation Protection Working Group (IPWG). The 31 FW
     Chief, Information Protection (CIP) will facilitate and manage all ISAG actions IAW this
     instruction and higher headquarters instructions/policy guidance (see paragraph 2.2 below).
     2.2. The ISAG is a collective, action officer-level forum of security disciplines within the
     wing whose primary purpose is to develop programs designed to protect the command’s
     information, structures, and networks where information resides. The group is composed of
     ISAG members and advisors as needed.
        2.2.1. Facilitator.
        2.2.2. 31 FW Chief of IP is the ISAG Facilitator. Responsibilities are to facilitate ISAG
        meetings and ensure a team lead is appointed for all related sub-ISAG activities.
        2.2.3. Schedule meetings, submit agendas for approval to the FW/CV, and notify all
        ISAG members as appropriate.
        2.2.4. Provide leadership and guidance to ISAG members on information protection
        integration, requirements, programmatic, prioritization, and related issues.
        2.2.5. Prepares, coordinates, and maintains requirements according to established
        guidance and directives as developed for ISAG members.
        2.2.6. Establish procedures to include creation, coordination, prioritization, assessment
        and status reporting as directed by SAF and MAJCOM.
        2.2.7. Prepare, coordinate, and present ISAG recommendations.
        2.2.8. Assign and manage all ISAG related action items (e.g., assign tracking numbers,
        Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) and Office of Collateral Responsiblity, suspense
        dates). All action items will be forwarded to OPRs and OCRs.
        2.2.9. Prepare correspondence (e.g., announcement messages, meeting minutes,
        collection of briefings, and action items). Minutes will be published following all
        meetings.
        2.2.10. Publish, manage, and archive ISAG related information. Classified information
        will be maintained within program channels and distributed on as a required basis.
        2.2.11. Establish subordinate committees as required.
AVIANOABI31-401 17 DECEMBER 2013                                                                 3


   2.3. ISAG Members.
         2.3.1. The ISAG is comprised of subject-matter experts (actions officers) from each of
         the areas listed below. Ensure appointed members have sufficient authority, expertise to
         enable expeditious deliberation, collaboration, and implementation of ISAG issues on
         behalf of their functional directors/commanders. The ISAG is comprised of the
         following members:

Table 1. ISAG Members
Unit/Organization                                  Discipline
31 CS                                              Computer Security (COMPUSEC)
31 CS                                              Communications Security (COMSEC)
31 CS                                              Information Assurance (IA)
31 CS                                              Information Management (FOIA/PII)
31 CS                                              NATO Subregistry
31 FW/CVN                                          Advanced Programs
31 FW/IP                                           Information Security
31 FW/IP                                           Industrial Security
31 FW/IP                                           Personnel Security
31 FW/PA                                           Public Affairs
31 FW/XP                                           Operations Security (OPSEC)
31 OSS/IN                                          Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI)
31 SFS                                             Integrated Defense

         2.3.2. Serve as their organizations primary point of contact.
         2.3.3. Empowered to represent and speak on behalf of their organization.
         2.3.4. Develop a process to coordinate issues with their organization in an expeditious
         manner and attempt to reach consensus to resolve issues.
         2.3.5. Relate   status,   impacts,   concerns,   and   recommendations     affecting their
         organization.
         2.3.6. Submit and prioritize new information protection requirements to the ISAG.
         2.3.7. Review information protection requirements, potential solutions for operational,
         and technical feasibility.
         2.3.8. Validate information protection requirements and approve further processing.
         2.3.9. Prepare timely responses to assigned/accepted tasks (action items), and submit to
         ISAG chair.
         2.3.10. Submit proposed agenda and action items to ISAG Facilitator.
 4                                                  AVIANOABI31-401 17 DECEMBER 2013


        2.3.11. Present organization unique, or subject matter expert views, as necessary.
     2.4. ISAG Advisors. Advisors include, but are not limited to:

Table 2. ISAG Advisors
Unit/Organization                                Discipline
AFOSI Det 531                                    AF Office of Special Investigations
31 FW/IG                                         Inspector General
31 FW/JA                                         Legal
USAFE/A5 OL-E (31 FW POLAD)                      International Affairs

        2.4.1. Serve as their organization primary point of contact.
        2.4.2. Review information protection requirements and potential solutions.           Voice
        concerns, make suggestions, and provide comments as appropriate.
        2.4.3. Suggest new information protection requirements and solutions for ISAG
        consideration.
        2.4.4. Respond in a timely manner to action items assigned during meetings, and provide
        a contact name for each action item assigned (OPR/OCR).
        2.4.5. Provide subject matter experts to review products and provide input to the ISAG.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. The ISAG will meet quarterly or as needed. The ISAG can be incorporated into other
     like 31 FW working groups or councils.
        3.1.1. The ISAG can be combined with the IPWG and meeting minutes will be provided
        to 31 FW/CV.
     3.2. Follow-up.
        3.2.1. The facilitator will distribute ISAG action items, meeting minutes to members, and
        publish meeting information following meetings. Sensitive and classified information
        will be sent via secure means to members and may be stored on appropriate level
        systems.
     3.3. Subordinate Working Groups.
        3.3.1. Meet as necessary and provide periodic, agreed upon updates to the chair before
        ISAG meetings.
     3.4. Designation.
        3.4.1. ISAG members (see paragraph 2.3 and 2.4) must be appointed in writing by their
        unit commander or wing staff agency chief; forward appointment letters to 31 FW/IP.
        Each appointed member will have a sufficient level of expertise in the designated
        functional area. Group members must have sufficient authority to deliberate, collaborate,
        coordinate, and implement ISAG issues on their behalf.
     3.5. ISAG Charter Changes.
AVIANOABI31-401 17 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  5


       3.5.1. ISAG or advisory members may suggest policy changes to be addressed at any
       ISAG meeting. Send proposed changes to the ISAG Facilitator. This charter will be
       reviewed by the ISAG membership at least every two-years, or as otherwise required.
       This charter will remain, in effect, until canceled, superseded, or as directed by higher
       authority.
4. Distribution.
   4.1. The 31 FW/IP Chief, Information Protection is my point of contact for this instruction.




                                            JON A. NORMAN, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
 6                                              AVIANOABI31-401 17 DECEMBER 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
SAF/AA Information Protection Concept of Operations (IP CONOPS), attachment 2, 1 July
2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
COMPUSEC—Computer Security
COMSEC—Communications Security
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
GSU—Geographically Separated Units
IP—Information Protection
IPWG—Installation Protection Working Group
ISAG—Installation Security Advisory Group
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPSEC—Operations Security
PII—Personal Identifiable Information
POC—Point of Contact
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SCI—Sensitive Compartamented Information
