BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          AVIANO AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 48-101
AVIANO AIR BASE
                                                                                    6 JUNE 2013

                                                                             Aerospace Medicine

                                                              ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 31 AMDS/SGPM                                                       Certified by: 31 MDG/CC
                                                                         (Col Linda L. Lawrence)
                                                                                          Pages: 9


This instruction implements guidance contained in AFI 32-6001, Family Housing Management,
dated 21 August 2006, AFI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services, dated 29 August 2006 and
MDGI 48-112, Rabies Control Program, dated 01 June 2012. This instruction provides policy
and procedures for the control and prevention of diseases of animals which may be transmitted to
humans (zoonotic diseases), and for the control, registration, identification, humane treatment,
immunization and disposition of all animals belonging to personnel assigned and deployed to
Aviano Air Base Area of Operations (AOR). It also establishes procedures for identification and
possible reprimand of pet owners who fail to comply with regulations set forward in this
document concerning animal welfare, humane treatment of animals, responsibility for proper
disposition of unwanted pets, and compliance with Italian Animal Welfare Laws and
Restrictions. It applies to all personnel assigned and deployed to Aviano Air Base Area of
Operations. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command

1. Policies and Responsibilities:
   1.1. Pet Registration:
2                                                          AVIANOABI48-101 6 JUNE 2013


    1.1.1. Registration of pets by the active duty member (stationed or deployed) or the
    dependent spouse with the Aviano AB Veterinary Treatment Facility (VTF) is required
    within 14 days of arrival to Aviano Air Base AOR or acquiring a pet.
       1.1.1.1. Registration is required to be eligible for services at the veterinary clinic.
       1.1.1.2. Registration is required regardless if the VTF will be used for pet care.
       1.1.1.3. All microchip numbers will be collected at time of registration and reported
       to Italian Public Health (PH) authorities for tracking purposes.
    1.1.2. Registration may be obtained by providing evidence of current immunizations
    (Attachment 2), rabies tag (worn at all times) and microchip (per European Union
    regulations EC No 998/2003 and EU No 438/2010) to Aviano VTF (Building 1410, Area
    F). Newborn puppies and kittens will apply for registration within 30 days of such pets
    being born or acquired (copy of pet’s medical record and/or pet passport will serve in lieu
    of a rabies identification tag).
       1.1.2.1. Pets found in violation of the above requirements for vaccination and
       microchip will have these services performed at the time of registration at the owner’s
       expense.
       1.1.2.2. Pets staying in any military lodging facility are required to have their pets
       current (within last 30 days) for treatment against fleas, ticks and lice at owners
       expense using any licensed method available from a licensed veterinarian’s office.
           1.1.2.2.1. Pet owners staying in military lodging are required to provide a copy of
           each pet’s most recent vaccination record (showing pet meets all required
           vaccinations listed in Attachment 2) and flea prevention purchase to lodging upon
           check in.
           1.1.2.2.2. Pets are required to stay current (per dosing regimen) while in military
           lodging.
           1.1.2.2.3. Pest infestation or damage caused by the pet that requires additional
           “excessive” cleaning/repair cost outside normal maintenance by lodging staff
           associated with the main unit will be completed at the pet owner’s expense.
    1.1.3. Registration will be valid for the tour of the active duty member PROVIDED they
    meet annual vaccination requirements and submit them to the Aviano VTF annually if
    not done at the VTF.
       1.1.3.1. Owners of pets who are found without proper registration/
       vaccination/microchip status will be granted 72 hours to complete the requirement
       before notification of the member’s chain of command by the VTF.
    1.1.4. To prevent cases of pet abandonment, all current pet owners and previous pet
    owners (those who Permanent Change of Station (PCS) to Aviano AB with pets or
    acquired pets while at Aviano AB and either lost, surrendered or gave them up while at
    Aviano AB) are required to obtain a PCS clearance from the Aviano VTF during out-
    processing. In order to out-process the VTF the following information is required:
       1.1.4.1. Veterinary health certificates for all pets (obtained from either the VTF or an
       off-base veterinarian) registered to the out-processing individual.
AVIANOABI48-101 6 JUNE 2013                                                                    3


        1.1.4.2. Proof of all immunizations if not completed at the VTF.
        1.1.4.3. In cases of pet ownership transfer, both the new owner and the previous
        owner must come to the VTF to fill out appropriate paperwork. At that time the pet
        will be deactivated under the previous owner’s record.
        1.1.4.4. In cases of pet death, the member must provide a death certificate, proof of
        remains disposal, or a Memorandum for Record (MFR) stating the animal died. Such
        an MFR must be signed by both the member’s First Sergeant and the member.
        1.1.4.5. In cases where the out-processing member cannot provide any of the above,
        the member must provide an MFR stating the facts and signed by both the member
        and their First Sergeant.
        1.1.4.6. Pets that are found at this time to be in violation of the vaccination/microchip
        requirement will be required to have these completed at the owner’s expense before
        out-processing paperwork will be signed off by the VTF.
  1.2. Restrictions and Owner Responsibilities:
     1.2.1. All pet owners will follow all Italian/local laws pertaining to pets.
     1.2.2. In Government Leased Housing (GRHP) and on base lodging, each household
     shall be restricted to a maximum of two domestic pets (dogs, cats). Exceptions to this
     rule will be considered on an individual basis by the Base Veterinarian with the approval
     of the Wing Commander and Housing Officials.
     1.2.3. In economy rental housing, the number of pets authorized falls under the authority
     of the landlord. Details of the agreement shall be noted in the rental contract. Persons
     living in economy rental housing must comply with this Operating Instruction as well as
     all European Union and Italian Pet Welfare Laws and Regulations. Pets found to be in
     violation of the requirements (base registration, immunization, microchipped, rabies tag,
     etc.) will have 72 hours to bring their pets into compliance or their Chain of Command
     will be contacted.
     1.2.4. Pet Breeding: Per AFI 48-131, AFI 32-6001, and VTF policy, breeding of animals
     for commercial purposes (more than one litter to include accidental or profit-making) is
     not permitted. For members residing in Government Leased Housing, In the case of pets
     with accidental litters, these newborn animals may be kept in GRHP until they are
     weaned or up to 90 days at which time current restrictions apply.
     1.2.5. When a pet owner anticipates leave, Temporary Duty, or deployment from his/her
     place of residence for a period greater than 24 hours, the member must present to the
     Aviano VTF a Power of Attorney granting to an individual present at Aviano for the
     duration of the member’s absence permission to seek veterinary routine or emergency
     care if warranted . The Power of Attorney will be kept in the pet’s record. No routine
     veterinary care can be legally granted to a pet without permission of the active duty
     member.
     1.2.6. Prohibited Animals. Residents may not house/board any pets, exceptions are
     dogs, cats hamsters, rabbits, gerbils, guinea pigs, and domestic rats or mice. Any dog/cat
     that has been determined to be “aggressive, dominant or potentially aggressive” is not
     allowed on Aviano AB except for routine care at the VTF (No other exceptions will be
 4                                                           AVIANOABI48-101 6 JUNE 2013


        made, to include on-base lodging). Determination is based on initial Veterinarian
        appraisal during registration, a record in incidents in which the pet has bitten/attacked
        unprovoked, or a record of multiple registered complaints with Security Forces/
        VTF/Italian authorities concerning the pet.
           1.2.6.1. Behavior that may be considered aggressive, dominant or potentially
           aggressive:
               1.2.6.1.1. Unprovoked barking, growling or snarling at people approaching the
               animal.
               1.2.6.1.2. Aggressively running along a fence line when people are present.
               1.2.6.1.3. Unprovoked biting or scratching people.
               1.2.6.1.4. Escaping confinement or restriction to chase people.
2. Animal Care and Welfare Policies and Requirements:
     2.1. Shelter from the Elements:
        2.1.1. Outdoor facilities for dogs/cats must:
           2.1.1.1. Provide shelter (roof, four sides, and a floor) from cold and heat accessible to
           each animal that allows each to sit, stand, lie in normal manner, and turn around
           freely even if all animals access shelter at once.
           2.1.1.2. Provide the dogs and cats with protection from the direct rays of the sun
           (shade) and the direct effects of the wind, rain or snow.
           2.1.1.3. Have clean and dry bedding material at all time.
           2.1.1.4. Provide the animal with direct access to fresh water continuously and food
           daily.
        2.1.2. Regardless of shelter, domesticated animals will not be maintained outside for
        extended periods of time (exception – letting pets out to relieve themselves or run for 30
        minute periods) when the temperature is above 90ºF or below 25ºF.
        2.1.3. Animals WILL NOT be maintained outside without a pen or fully fenced yard
        capable of preventing the animals’ escape. Suitable pens/fences are required or animals
        must be kept inside the quarters. These arrangements must comply with any applicable
        lease and/or Italian rules for maintaining pens/fence.
        2.1.4. Owners are prohibited from chaining animals to outside structures (housing unit,
        trees, etc.).
     2.2. Proper Restraint of Privately Owned Animals:
        2.2.1. When not confined to quarters, pets shall be leashed (muzzle on hand) or
        otherwise controlled with fencing at all times.
        2.2.2. Pets (exceptions are Military Working Dogs and registered Handicap Assistance
        Dogs) are not allowed in the vicinity of military ceremonies and public buildings on
        Aviano AB unless expressly permitted.
AVIANOABI48-101 6 JUNE 2013                                                                      5


          2.2.2.1. Pets are allowed at athletic events and outdoor places of public assembly
          unless expressly prohibited.
      2.2.3. Pets on base confined in authorized pens or while on a leash shall be reasonably
      prevented from making excessive noise (barking, etc.), which may disturb other
      personnel on base. Military personnel residing in off base housing/lodging will follow all
      applicable local Italian ordinances pertaining to pet noise.
      2.2.4. Female pets in estrus shall be confined in owner’s quarters (except for controlled
      exercise on a leash or fenced). Such pets shall not be penned or tethered in outside areas.
      2.2.5. Identification tags (Owners name, pet’s name, and contact phone number) must be
      worn at all times by the pet. Lost pets reported to the VTF by Security Forces or Italian
      authorities will result in the VTF making every attempt to contact the owner (if known)
      before adoption or surrender to local Italian kennel facilities (minimum of 3 days in
      holding) occurs. Failure to respond to efforts to claim a registered pet will result in
      contact of the offender’s Chain of Command.
      2.2.6. Pets will NEVER be left unattended in privately owned vehicles (illegal under
      Italian law as animal maltreatment).
      2.2.7. Pets will be restrained when being transported in privately owned vehicles, in
      accordance with Italian law
3. Vaccinations, Rabies Control and Animal Bites:
   3.1. Pets will be immunized in accordance with Attachment 2. Pets will be tested and
   treated annually for parasites and/other diseases that constitute a PH threat or threat to other
   animals.
   3.2. Found Pets: Animals bearing no identification (no tags or microchip) may be held on
   base for a minimum of three days and every attempt to locate the owners will be made before
   adoption efforts or other actions are taken.
      3.2.1. If the owner is found they are responsible for all costs accrued for boarding,
      treating, caring and bringing the pet into compliance with this ABI for their lost pet.
   3.3. Aviano VTF Staff in concert with Aviano Air Base PH Office maintains and monitors
   the animal bite program for Aviano AB:
      3.3.1. Animal Bitten: Any animal bitten or scratched by a wild, carnivorous mammal or
      bat (Not available for testing for rabies) will be regarded as having been exposed to
      rabies and treated accordingly at owner’s expense unless other determination made by the
      Rabies Advisory Board (RAB).
      3.3.2. Aviano AB personnel or Dependent Bitten:
          3.3.2.1. They are required to file a bite report with the Aviano AB PH Office within
          24 hrs of bite regardless if occurred on or off base.
          3.3.2.2. Offending pet will be quarantined for not less than 10 days. Quarantine cost
          will be at owner’s expense. Location of quarantine will be determined by the RAB.
 6                                                           AVIANOABI48-101 6 JUNE 2013


            3.3.2.3. Owners are required to show proof of rabies vaccination at time of report. If
            not available, pet will be required to receive all required annual vaccinations at the
            owner’s expense post quarantine period.
            3.3.2.4. Pets that are involved in bite incidents with local national individuals are
            under the jurisdiction of local animal bite laws and Italian law enforcement. Owners
            must follow this base regulation in addition to those imposed by Italian law.
4. Aviano AB Dog Park:
     4.1. All dogs must be registered with VTF, up to date on vaccinations, have an implanted
     microchip and have up to date flea and tick preventative applied as specified above before
     entering the dog park.
     4.2. Any pet in the dog park that shows aggression must be immediately removed by the
     owner.
     4.3. Any injury to other pets or personnel caused by a pet will be covered by offending pet’s
     owner at their expense.
        4.3.1. Any bites or scratches must be reported to the Aviano AB PH Office within 24
        hours of the incident.
     4.4. Pets that cause any injury or show any aggressive behaviors due to unprovoked actions
     as outlined above will be permanently barred from the dog park.
     4.5. Dogs under the age of 4 months are not permitted in the dog park, due to potentially
     compromised immune systems.
     4.6. Any dogs with known infectious or communicable diseases are not permitted in the
     park; if owners are found to have knowingly brought a dog with an infectious or
     communicable disease to the park, the dog will be subsequently banned from the dog park
     and the base (exception – to receive treatment at the VTF and PCS lodging). Owners may
     face possible disciplinary action for failure to comply.
     4.7. All personnel utilizing the dog park will pick up after their pets, to include but not
     limited to feces and damaged toys.
5. Consequences for Irresponsible Pet Ownership: Pet owners assigned or deployed to the
Aviano Air Base AOR who fail to follow the regulations set forth in this document may be
subject to administrative or disciplinary action as determined by their Chain of Command, Wing
Leadership, and/or local police or law enforcement authority.




                                             SCOTT J. ZOBRIST, Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Commander
AVIANOABI48-101 6 JUNE 2013                                                             7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-6001, Family Housing Management, 21 August 2006
AFI48-131, Veterinary Health Services, 29 August 2006
MDGI48-112, Rabies Control Program, 01 June 2012
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AOR—Area of Operations
GRHP—Government Leased Housing
MFR—Memorandum for Record
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PH—Public Health
RAB—Rabies Advisory Board
VTF—Veterinary Treatment Facility

Terms
DAPP— Distemper, Adenovirus, Parvovirus, Parainfluenza vaccine (one-year vaccine)
DAP— Distemper, Adenovirus, Parvovirus vaccine (three-year vaccine)
FVRCP— Feline Viral Rhinotracheitis, Calici, Panleukopenia vaccine (one-year vaccine)
HCP— Herpes, Calici, Panleukopenia vaccine (three-year vaccine)
FeLV— Feline Leukemia Virus vaccine
 8                                                             AVIANOABI48-101 6 JUNE 2013


                                           Attachment 2
                                 IMMUNIZATION SCHEDULE

DOGS :
Initial vaccine series:
        DAPP vaccination beginning at eight weeks of age and boosted every 3-4 weeks until 16
         weeks of age. Dogs receiving the initial series at 16 weeks of age or older will receive
         two boosters 3-4 weeks apart.
        Leptospirosis vaccination beginning at 12 weeks of age and boosted one time in 3-4
         weeks.
        Rabies vaccine will be given at 16 weeks of age or older.


Adult vaccination protocol:
        DAPP or DAP vaccine will be given one year from initial series and then repeated
         annually or every three years depending on the available vaccine.
        Leptospirosis vaccine will be given annually.
        Rabies vaccine will be given annually.


Optional:
        Bordetella vaccine is recommended for any dog that is boarded or comes into contact
         with other dogs. The initial vaccine may be given at eight weeks of age and is boosted
         one time in 3-4 weeks. The vaccination is repeated every six to twelve months.


CATS:
Initial vaccine series:
        FVRCP vaccination beginning at eight weeks of age and boosted every 3-4 weeks until
         16 weeks of age. Cats receiving the initial series at 16 weeks of age or older will receive
         two boosters 3-4 weeks apart.
        FeLV vaccination beginning at 12 weeks of age and boosted one time in 3-4 weeks.
        Rabies vaccine will be given at 16 weeks of age or older.


Adult vaccination protocol:
        FVRCP or HCP vaccine will be given one year from initial series and then repeated
         annually or every three years depending on the available vaccine.
        Rabies vaccine will be given annually.
AVIANOABI48-101 6 JUNE 2013                                                                      9



Optional:
      FeLV vaccination is recommended for all cats that go outside and that could potentially
       come into contact with an outdoor cat. The vaccine is given annually.


Definition of Terms:
DAPP – Distemper, Adenovirus, Parvovirus, Parainfluenza vaccine (one-year vaccine)
DAP – Distemper, Adenovirus, Parvovirus vaccine (three-year vaccine)
FVRCP – Feline Viral Rhinotracheitis, Calici, Panleukopenia vaccine (one-year vaccine)
HCP – Herpes, Calici, Panleukopenia vaccine (three-year vaccine)
FeLV – Feline Leukemia Virus vaccine
