BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                 AVIANO AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 32-1004
AVIANO (USAFE)                                                                                 28 MAY 2008

                                                                                          Civil Engineering

                                                                              FACILITY MANAGEMENT




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 31 CES/CEO                                           Certified by: 31 MSG/CC (Col David A. Slade)
                                                                                            Pages: 19

This instruction implements AFPD 32-10, Installation and Facilities and expands major points covered in
the Facility Manager’s training course. It details Facility Managers (FMs) duties and responsibilities and
is designed to serve as a quick reference to make their job easier. It applies to all personnel assigned or
attached to the 31st Fighter Wing. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publi-
cation, Prescribing Directive: AFI 11-215; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Man-
agement of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.


1. Overview.
   1.1. The 31st Civil Engineer Squadron (CES) is responsible for the maintenance of all real property
   for the 31st Fighter Wing and assigned Geographically Separated Units. Each Facility Manager (FM)
   is the facility liaison with the 31 CES. As the commander’s personal representative, FMs are the offi-
   cial contact for civil engineering work required in facilities. The Air Force places major emphasis on
   the importance of a FM. FMs are the unit commander’s representatives and must have the authority
   and ability to perform all responsibilities. This guide is provided to help FMs understand their role and
   explain the procedures to follow in performing FM duties.

2. Appointment of Facility Managers.
   2.1. CRITERIA: Trained and experienced FMs are key to improving the quality of life and working
   environment in a unit. Unit commanders should assign quality people to serve as FM for their entire
   tour at Aviano AB. FMs are responsible for the following: care, custody and protection of real prop-
   erty; active participation in the utilities conservation program; fire safety; and proper use of the facil-
   ities assigned to them. To fulfill these responsibilities, they must have the cooperation of all occupants
2                                                                   AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008


    and users of their facilities. FMs should make every effort to safeguard government property from
    damage or loss. FMs attend training and serve in an administrative and advisory role for all real prop-
    erty matters. Unit commanders designate a primary and alternate FM for each facility assigned to the
    unit. Individuals designated as an alternate act on behalf of absent primary FMs. When a facility is
    used by more than one organization or staff agency, the primary user designates the primary FM. An
    alternate may be appointed from another agency using the facility. Unit commanders and staff agency
    chiefs ensure, by personal inspections, FMs are performing assigned duties. Attachment 3 is pro-
    vided as a sample format letter for appointing FMs.
    2.2. The person designated as the primary or alternate FM must have the authority, ability and proac-
    tive attitude to perform assigned duties. Designated FMs should have at least eighteen months remain-
    ing with their present organization. FMs will not be responsible for more facilities than they can care
    for.
    2.3. Changes in FM appointment must be made in writing to the 31 CES Customer Service Unit
    (CSU) 10 days before the desired change date. The appointment letter must be signed by the unit com-
    mander, or unit chief (tenant units only). FMs must out-process through the CSU before departing the
    base.
    2.4. CSU will maintain a list of FMs for each facility and update as necessary.

3. Facility Manager Roles and Responsibilities.
    3.1. Building Security.
       3.1.1. FMs are required to establish standard procedures for assuring facilities are secure from
       illegal entry at all times. Place proper Force Protection Condition (FPCON) signs at each entrance
       of the facility.
           3.1.1.1. Perform security, fire safety and closing inspection checks. Remove unprotected
           equipment to a secured area to prevent theft or vandalism. The use of lighting and fencing can
           help protect equipment that must be left outdoors or otherwise unprotected. Eliminate items
           that might assist a person in gaining entry into the facility. For example, ladders can be used to
           access air vents or other entry points on the roof. Unsecured window air conditioners can be
           pulled or pushed through a window. Items that can be used to break a window or force open a
           door should be removed.
       3.1.2. Security Forces Crime Prevention is available to conduct security surveys of your facility
       and provide crime prevention recommendations. Security Forces Law Enforcement Patrols con-
       duct random security checks on base facilities. If a facility is not properly secured, FMs are
       required to report to the facility immediately to correct the situation. FMs must impress upon all
       personnel the importance of facility security. Questions concerning facility security can be
       directed to the Security Forces Crime Prevention Section or the Law Enforcement Desk.
       3.1.3. FMs are responsible for the security of all keys serving the facility. FMs are required to
       establish security procedures to ensure keys are not duplicated without official approval in writ-
       ing. FMs are not necessarily responsible for keys controlling specialized areas within facilities,
       areas maintained by using organizations for safeguarding specialized equipment, sensitive docu-
       ments, personal tool kits or similar items. FMs must repossess all keys from personnel departing
       the unit and hold all keys issued to personnel departing on extended leave or TDY for over 90
       days.
AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008                                                                           3


         3.1.3.1. Replacement keys, for other than normal wear and tear, will be the monetary respon-
         sibility of the individual to whom the keys were issued. FMs are required to submit an AF
         Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, providing name of person(s) responsible and
         justification for replacement.
         3.1.3.2. Additional keys for a facility will only be issued to the FM or alternate with an
         approved AF Form 332. FMs are responsible for duplicating keys to Italian locks on the Italian
         economy. Personnel are prohibited from duplicating keys assigned to them by FMs.
         3.1.3.3. Key cutting hours are on Wednesday from 1330-1430. The maximum number of keys
         allowed to be cut is 10. Contact CSU if additional keys are required.
     3.1.4. Master Keys.
         3.1.4.1. Master keys are issued in duplicate when a facility is assigned to a using organization
         and in the event the facility lock system is rekeyed.
         3.1.4.2. Requests for master keys will not be approved without the written concurrence of the
         commander. All actions involving key control are recorded by the FM in the key control regis-
         ter. Broken, damaged or inoperative locks must be reported to the CSU.
     3.1.5. FMs are responsible for posting facility rules to include security measures and admittance
     after duty hours.
         3.1.5.1. FMs shall inform occupants and users of the facility on responsibilities for the care,
         custody and protection of property. FMs should brief occupants on pecuniary liability for loss
         and damage in excess of fair wear and tear resulting from acts within their control.
  3.2. Facility Manager Log: FMs must ensure all maintenance and repair requirements for Real Prop-
  erty are identified, requested and completed. The log is necessary to provide FMs a summary of main-
  tenance and repair actions completed and the status of pending work. Used properly, logs avoid
  duplicate work requests and provide accurate records of facility maintenance. Review your records to
  determine trends in maintenance and repair requirements. Provide this information to CE to identify
  potential problem areas.
     3.2.1. Suggest FMs establish record files using a six-compartment file folder or a standard
     three-ring binder. Files may be established in the following format:
         3.2.1.1. FM guide (this instruction).
         3.2.1.2. FM appointment letter. A sample appointment letter is provided as Attachment 3.
         3.2.1.3. Use USAFE Base Form 58, Work request register to log work requests submitted to
         CE. This form is self explanatory and is to be kept in the FM continuity book until no longer
         needed.
         3.2.1.4. Use USAFE Base Form 59, Key control register to log work requests submitted to
         CE. This form is self explanatory and is to be kept in the FM continuity book until no longer
         needed.
         3.2.1.5. Miscellaneous records: The miscellaneous records section of the file is not an official
         record. FMs should maintain various records concerning the facility and the maintenance
         accomplished. These are temporary records and can be discarded when no longer needed.
4                                                                   AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008


           3.2.1.6. Use USAFE Base Form 56, Fire prevention checklist to perform and document fire
           prevention checks. This form is self explanatory and is to be filed with the FM’s Fire Preven-
           tion Folder until no longer needed.
       3.2.2. Questions regarding set up or maintenance of FM records can be directed to CSU.
    3.3. Ensure a Fuel Tank Custodian (FTC) has been appointed if the facility relies on a boiler for heat/
    hot water or has a backup generator with an external fuel tank. Use USAFE Base Form 55 for fuel
    tank inspections. This form is self explanatory and is to be kept in the Fuel Tank Custodian’s continu-
    ity book (or the FM is they are the FTC also) until no longer needed.
       3.3.1. The FTC is responsible for monitoring the physical condition of the fuel tank and the sur-
       rounding containment floor and berm. Tanks should be inspected weekly for leaks. If a leak is
       found, report it to the CSU immediately. The custodian must ensure that rain water is removed
       from the tank berm and the drain valve is closed at all times except when removing rain water.
       Guidance on inspecting and maintaining fuel support tanks is in AFI 23-204, Organizational Fuel
       Tanks.
       3.3.2. 31 LRS Fuels Management offers tank custodian training. Contact the Fuels Training sec-
       tion for further details.
    3.4. Coordinate all scheduled utility outages affecting facilities under the FM responsibility with the
    chain of command and occupants.
    3.5. FMs inspect facilities and all Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE) on an as needed basis,
    but not less than weekly and contact CSU to identify work requiring CE support. IAW AFPAM
    32-1125V1, Working in the Operations Management Field, FMs are responsible to perform minor
    facility maintenance to include but not limited to:
       3.5.1. Replace dirty/damaged ceiling tiles.
       3.5.2. Plunge toilets and sinks to unstop drains.
       3.5.3. Replace toilet seats.
       3.5.4. Replace electrical receptacle and light switch covers.
       3.5.5. Change light bulbs if less than 10 ft (3 meters) above the floor.
       3.5.6. Replace starters in fluorescent light fixtures if less than 10 ft (3 meters) above the floor.
       3.5.7. Repair small holes in drywall, glue loose wallpaper.
       3.5.8. Control insects and pests such as cockroaches, ants, centipedes, crickets, earwigs, firebrats,
       flies, silverfish, sow bugs, mice, wasps and wasps nests.
    3.6. Facility Occupants Maintenance Requirements:
       3.6.1. Maintenance Checklist: Develop a maintenance checklist for each assigned facility and the
       surrounding grounds or use USAFE Base Form 57, Facility Manager’s Maintenance Checklist.
       This checklist is self explanatory and should be kept in the FM continuity book until no longer
       needed. Although grounds maintenance and litter pickup are accomplished by service contract,
       each FM should take pride in their facility and surrounding grounds. Each FM’s area of responsi-
       bility is approximately 50 feet from the building or half the distance to the next building, ditch or
AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008                                                                             5


      roadway, whichever is less. Note: FMs for Hardened Aircraft Shelters (HAS) will maintain the
      grounds to a distance of six feet from each wall.
          3.6.1.1. Snow and ice removal: FMs are responsible for the removal of snow and ice from
          sidewalks and areas surrounding the facility. Salt can be obtained by the FM through the
          Self-Help Store.
          3.6.1.2. Cleaning guidelines:
              3.6.1.2.1. Tile and linoleum flooring: A damp mop may be used to clean the floor. Avoid
              using excessive water as it is may damage the floor.
              3.6.1.2.2. Cleaning compounds containing fats, oils, alkalis, gasoline, turpentine or sol-
              vents may damage floor coverings and must not be used.
              3.6.1.2.3. If a mechanical buffer is required to clean floors where waxing is necessary,
              always sweep and damp mop floors first. Buffing without cleaning causes dirt to be ground
              into the flooring, which can damage the surface.
              3.6.1.2.4. Use adequate protective devices to prevent marking, dents or other damage to
              flooring and walls.
              3.6.1.2.5. Metal or plastic blinds may be washed with an all-purpose detergent using a
              damp sponge.
   3.7. To vacate an assigned facility, the FM requests an inspection with the Real Property Officer
   (RPO) 10 days prior to vacating. Before the inspection, the FM ensures all organizational property is
   removed from the facility and the entire area thoroughly cleaned. Coordinate with the unit Telephone
   Control Officer (TCO) to request Communications Squadron remove all communications equipment.
   Contact CSU to have all utilities turned off. Interior door keys must be taped or secured to their
   respective door and the facility secured. All outside door keys are to be turned over to the RPO at time
   of the joint inspection.

4. Civil Engineer (CE) Overview.
   4.1. The CE organization is the activity responsible for the acquisition, construction, maintenance,
   repair and operation of real property facilities. The primary purpose of CE at Aviano AB is to support
   the mission of the United States Air Force by providing and maintaining essential facilities, utilities
   and services. Multiple CE functions are available to assist FMs to include: CSU, Self-Help, Fire Pro-
   tection and Real Estate Management. These functions and how they support FMs are described in this
   section.
   4.2. CSU: CSU manages the Facility Manager’s program for the 31 CES/CC and is the key point of
   contact for FMs. CSU coordinates actions required for the following:
      4.2.1. Monitors and tracks current appointment of FMs for all facilities on base.
      4.2.2. Conducts FM training as needed. CSU personnel will notify individuals for training. Train-
      ing will consist of a review of material contained within this instruction and a question and answer
      session. Training is mandatory for all newly assigned or untrained FMs.
          4.2.2.1. Conducts regular FM meeting no less than quarterly.
6                                                                  AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008


       4.2.3. CSU schedules and programs large scale work orders for Civil Engineer shops. CSU is
       located in area C, Bldg 428. If you have further questions or comments, contact Customer Service.
           4.2.3.1. CSU accepts and is the focal point for all work requirements until complete or pro-
           grammed for completion by contract. CSU provides a single point of contact between CE and
           customers to:
               4.2.3.1.1. Assist customers preparing work requests.
               4.2.3.1.2. Accept, review, process and control work requests.
               4.2.3.1.3. Answer customer inquiries and provide status of work requests.
               4.2.3.1.4. Provide a 24 hour, seven day a week emergency service call operation. This
               operation is geared for immediate response in accordance with AFI 32-1001, Operations
               Management.
           4.2.3.2. The damage control center (DCC) is a critical function managed by CSU during con-
           tingencies and natural disasters. The DCC is the unit control center where civil engineering
           strategies and priorities are determined; a vital civil engineering function in wartime and
           peacetime. It monitors and coordinates civil engineer recovery action, damage assessment,
           decontamination, damage recovery and repair as directed by the Survival Recovery Center
           (SRC). The DCC also maintains a service call function to respond to emergency requirements
           during exercises and contingencies.

5. CE Work Classification Definitions.
    5.1. Maintenance: Work to preserve the existing structure or system.
    5.2. Repair: Work to replace or restore a failed or failing facility or system component.
    5.3. Construction: Work required to modify, add to, or otherwise alter the existing facility. Example:
    Installing new walls, relocating RPIE, cutting doorways, installing additional lighting, etc. When new
    construction is required in a facility, an AF Form 332 must be submitted. Directions for preparation
    are printed on the back of the last page of the form. Read the directions carefully and follow them
    completely to ensure timely processing of your request.
    5.4. Direct Scheduled Work Orders (DSW): This is normally simple, single craft work requiring no
    detailed planning and can be accomplished in less than 50 man-hours by the shop personnel. Materials
    normally cost less than $2,500 with little or no procurement time. DSWs are prioritized by criticality;
    Emergency, Urgent or Routine.
       5.4.1. Emergencies: An emergency condition is one which, in the judgment of a responsible per-
       son, is detrimental to the overall wing mission and, if correction is not accomplished immediately,
       would result in a major breakdown of the mission. CE will work to eliminate an emergency situa-
       tion within 24 hours of notification. An emergency is a situation which reduces operational effec-
       tiveness or the work is required to provide adequate security to areas subject to compromise, to
       eliminate immediate hazards to health, fire protection, safety or to protect valuable property and
       equipment. An emergency will always include, but is not limited to: failure of any utility, fire pro-
       tection, environmental control, or security alarm system, loss of heat, steam, gas, liquid fuels or
       water, clogged plumbing, failure of a critical air conditioning system for equipment cooling,
       power failure, faulty electrical systems, fire hazards and inoperative fire protection systems for
AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008                                                                              7


     which correction has been initiated or validated by the Fire Protection Branch. The Service Call
     function will accept notification that an emergency condition exists from anyone who has knowl-
     edge of that emergency condition. FMs should be familiar with location and operation of utility
     controls so they may react properly and quickly should an emergency develop in their facility.
     5.4.2. Urgent: Work that is not an emergency, but must be responded to and completed or materi-
     als ordered within seven calendar days of receipt. If materials are ordered, completion will be
     within seven calendar days after receipt of materials. Examples include, but are not limited to, a
     stopped up toilet when others are available, no heat in a single room, or air conditioning inopera-
     tive in a single room. CSU Personnel will analyze your requirement and determine whether the
     work can be done without formal written request, special planning or material support. If so, then
     your requirement can be assigned Urgent and must be submitted to CE by the FM.
     5.4.3. Routine: Maintenance and repair type work required to preserve or restore an existing facil-
     ity. Examples include but are not limited to replacing floor tiles, replacing light fixtures, repairing
     heating systems, etc. Such requirements can be readily identified by conducting regular inspec-
     tions of your facility and real property installed equipment. When practical all routine require-
     ments should be grouped into work packages and accomplished as a single undertaking. Routine
     work will be accomplished within 30 calendar days after identifying the requirement or receipt of
     material.
  5.5. Work Order: Work requiring detailed planning, a variety of trades, extensive materials and a rel-
  atively high cost. Work orders are normally started from 2 to 24 months after the work request is
  approved, depending on priority, material availability, funds availability and existing backlog.
     5.5.1. To request construction, alterations and improvements, self-help work and work required to
     repair damage when pecuniary liability may be involved, it is very important that the request pro-
     vide an explicit description of the work to be accomplished and a valid justification of the require-
     ment. The justification must be clear, concise and factual. Reference to a regulation or IG write-up
     does not constitute justification by itself. Include information on consequences resulting if the
     work is not accomplished. Occupants or users of the facility should contact the FM to prepare the
     AF Form 332. After the FM fills out the request, it is necessary to obtain the signature of the orga-
     nization commander. The AF Form 332 must be coordinated through Wing Safety, Fire Protection,
     Civil Engineer Environmental Flight, Medical Group Bio-Environmental Engineers and any other
     organizations that may be affected.
     5.5.2. The work request is submitted to your Group Representative. The Group Representative
     will prioritize the work and gain approval for the prioritization from group leadership. Group Rep-
     resentatives will maintain a top 10 list of priority work requests. CE will work on the top 10 prior-
     ities from each group. Once one work request is complete or a project is programmed for Higher
     Headquarters (HHQ) funding the next work order in the group priority will be submitted to CE
     through the CSU. The AF Form 332 will be reviewed by CSU for completeness and will be
     assigned a work request number. One copy of the form showing this number will be returned the
     FM for filing through your Group Representative. When the work request is approved or disap-
     proved, a second copy of the AF Form 332 will be returned to you with the approval or disap-
     proval signature. If approved, the work request number will become the work order number. If
     disapproved, there will be an attached letter providing justification for disapproval.
8                                                                     AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008


    5.6. Recurring Work (RWP): Work for which hours, scope and materials are known in advance and
    must be accomplished on a recurring basis. Examples of recurring work are maintenance of heating
    plants or Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning (HVAC) equipment. Recurring work is scheduled
    directly by CE and does not require FM support. CSU will notify the FM when possible the RWP will
    occur and the impacts on the facility.
    5.7. Contracts: Work submitted on an AF Form 332 that is beyond the scope and/or capability of
    in-house work force may be contracted. This may include maintenance, repair or construction work.
    Once a project is programmed it will be submitted to the Facilities Working Group for prioritization in
    the design and construction program. FMs will be kept informed of the status of these projects.
    5.8. Important points to remember when requesting work.
       5.8.1. Plan ahead. Major changes in heating systems should be requested in early spring to assure
       completion by late fall. Changes in air conditioning equipment should be requested in early fall to
       assure completion by early spring.
       5.8.2. FMs unsure of work classification (maintenance, repair or new construction) for a require-
       ment should call CE Customer Service for assistance.
       5.8.3. When ordering equipment that will be connected to any utility (i.e. electrical, plumbing,
       steam etc.), FMs must coordinate with CE to ensure that the proper utility support is available.

6. Self-Help Program.
    6.1. The Self-Help Store was established to allow and encourage personnel to perform certain minor
    maintenance and repair work on the facilities in which they work. The Base Civil Engineer or his/her
    designee will establish internal operating instructions to assure proper costing and control of all mate-
    rial issued from the store.
    6.2. The nature of self-help work includes, but is not limited to, touch up painting, replacement of
    hinges, ceiling tiles, shower heads, door stops, etc. that do not require special skills. All electrical and
    plumbing work, except replacement of shower heads, stoppers and like items, must be accomplished
    by trained CE personnel.
    6.3. Self-Help Maintenance Procedures:
       6.3.1. Only authorized customers will be allowed to use the Self-Help store. Authorized personnel
       are FMs as listed in the FM database maintained by CSU, commanders, first sergeants and other
       personnel designated in writing by the commander.
       6.3.2. Customers will show their identification card and provide the store attendant the facility
       number the materials will be used for. Customers will be responsible for ensuring received mate-
       rials are used only in the facility requested.
       6.3.3. Customers will sign for all materials received from the Self-Help store.
    6.4. Self-Help Work Order:
       6.4.1. Due to limitations of CE man-hours and funds, all requested work cannot be accomplished
       by the date desired. The requester has the option to defer the work or furnish the labor, materials
       and or funds to facilitate work accomplishment. Construction materials may be obtained from the
       Self-Help Store to do small minor construction projects or minor alteration work to facilities.
AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008                                                                            9


      Work of this type and requests for large amounts of material must be submitted to the Self-Help
      Store on AF Form 332 for approval. Requests for self-help work are closely reviewed to ensure the
      requester has the technical ability to complete the work. Controls, restrictions and reviews of
      self-help work are based on the complexity of the work. Complex work receives detailed reviews
      before approval to prevent accidents and to determine requester’s capability to complete the
      project. The intent is to expedite approval and authorization of routine minor work requests and
      get the work started. The FM is responsible for all work accomplished on real property, including
      self-help.
   6.5. Self-Help Work Order Procedures:
      6.5.1. Self-Help work will not begin until the requester receives an approved AF Form 332 from
      CE. Self-Help work requests should be coordinated with the Group Representatives but will not be
      included in the Top 10 priorities.
      6.5.2. CE support for Self-Help work may be authorized, i.e. electrical support. CE support will
      be approved by the Civil Engineer Operations flight commander and the labor hours will be col-
      lected on the approved Self-Help work order.
      6.5.3. Materials not provided by or purchased through the Self-Help Store must meet Air Force
      Standards and be approved by the Self-Help Store prior to installation. For questions on this, con-
      tact the Self-Help Store manager.
      6.5.4. After Self-Help work begins, the work will be inspected by a Self-Help inspector to ensure
      it meets the scope of the approved project and CE work standards.
   6.6. Self-Help Store is located in area C, Bldg 430.

7. Contract Services.
   7.1. Maintenance Engineering monitors all CE service contracts including refuse collection and jani-
   torial services. If you have any questions, contact CE Maintenance Engineering.
   7.2. The FM is responsible to the unit commander for cleanliness and appearance of the facility. Jan-
   itorial services are provided where authorized.
   7.3. FMs must inspect their assigned facilities daily or as frequently as services are provided. FMs
   must become familiar with the floor plan, schedule of services and specifications in the service con-
   tract for the facility. If a service is not performed properly, notify the Maintenance Engineering Sec-
   tion immediately. The inspector will respond, investigate the complaint and determine if the
   contractor has performed within the standards set forth in the contract.
   7.4. FMs and occupants shall not instruct any janitorial employee(s) to accomplish any work. If the
   employee does not perform the services as scheduled or as the specifications require, the FM will
   immediately notify the Maintenance Engineering Section. The inspector from this section is the only
   authorized representative capable of discussing the contract requirements with the employee. Any
   individual directing the contractor’s employees to perform any services may be responsible for reim-
   bursing the Government for additional expenses incurred.

8. Energy Conservation in Your Building.
   8.1. FMs are responsible for monitoring the energy conservation efforts of the facility.
10                                                                   AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008


     8.2. No special training is required. Follow the following steps to ensure your facility is within energy
     regulations and to improve energy efficiencies.
        8.2.1. Facilities will be maintained within the proper temperature settings. For offices and admin-
        istrative areas, thermostats should be no higher than 68 degrees Fahrenheit (20 Celsius) during
        heating season and no lower than 78 degrees Fahrenheit (25 Celsius) during cooling season. For
        dormitories and housing, thermostats should be no higher than 70 degrees Fahrenheit (20 Celsius)
        during heating season and no lower than 78 degrees Fahrenheit (25 Celsius) during cooling sea-
        son.
        8.2.2. Turn off lights that are not needed or being used. Encourage others in the facility to do the
        same. Ensure that all lights are off during non-duty hours.
        8.2.3. Identify energy waste. A few Energy Conservation Guidelines are provided as Attachment
        5. Submit energy saving ideas for your facility to CE or the IDEA program.

9. Space Utilization and Control.
     9.1. FMs must monitor the assigned facility to ensure that utilization of assigned space does not
     change without proper approval.
     9.2. The Civil Engineer Real Property section (31 CES/CERR) is the point of contact for assigning
     additional facility space or changing current use.
     9.3. Valid requirements for additional space must be submitted in writing to the 31 CES Real Property
     Office (RPO). Justification for the requirement and a point of contact must be provided. Include the
     amount of space required and any special requirements such as security, ground floor access, etc. RPO
     will present the request to the Space Committee. The Space Committee approves or disapproves all
     space requests.
     9.4. No one may alter the use of facility space or relocate functions within existing space without Real
     Property approval. This is essential to ensure our records properly reflect correct usage of existing
     space and to support future construction
     9.5. The following conditions must be met prior to approval:
        9.5.1. Maximum space utilization.
        9.5.2. The request must be consistent with space requirements in AFI 32-1024, Standard Facility
        Requirements.
     9.6. FMs should notify the RPO of space in excess of requirements.

10. Prescribed Forms:
USAFE Base Form 55, Key Control Register
USAFE Base Form 56, Facility Manager’s Fire Prevention Checklist
USAFE Base Form 57, Facility Manager’s Maintenance Checklist
USAFE Base Form 58, Facility Manager’s Work Request Register
USAFE Base Form 59, Key Control Register
AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008                                                           11


11. Adopted Forms:
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request



                                          CRAIG A. FRANKLIN, Brigadier General, USAF
                                          Commander
12                                                           AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008


                                           Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 23-204, Organizational Fuel Tanks, 27 April 1994
AFI 32-1001, Operations Management, 1 September 2005
AFI 32-1024, Standard Facility Requirements, 31 May 1994
AFI 32-1063, Electric Power Systems, 10 June 2005
AFI 32-1064, Electrical Safe Practices, 25 May 2006
AFPAM 32-1098, Base Civil Engineer Self-Help Guide, 1 April 1996
AFPAM 32-1125V1, Working in the Operations Management Field, 23 July 2004
AFI 32-9002, Use of Real Property Facilities, 22 November 1993
AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting, 30 September 1994
AFH 32-9007, Managing Air Force Real Property, 1 May 1999
AFI 11-215,

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
CE—Civil Engineers
CES—Civil Engineer Squadron
CSU—Customer Service Unit
DCC—Damage Control Center
DSW—Direct Scheduled Work Order
EAID—Equipment Authorization Inventory Data
ECO—Energy Conservation Officer
FB—Facilities Board
FM—Facility Manager
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
FWG—Facilities Working Group
HAS—Hardened Aircraft Shelter
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008                                                                          13


HVAC—Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning
IG—Inspector General
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RPIE—Real Property Installed Equipment
RPO—Real Property Office/Real Property Officer
RPSE—Real Property Similar Equipment
RWP—Recurring Work Program
SRC—Survival Recovery Center
TCO—Telephone Control Officer
TDY—Temporary Duty

Terms
Customer Service Unit—The office in CE responsible for managing the FM program. CSU contains the
Customer Service and Service Call functions during duty hours.
Facilities Board—Chaired by the Wing Commander; provides corporate review and direction to
facilitate efficient use of Civil Engineering resources in accomplishing the wing mission, goals and
objectives.
Facilities Working Group—Provides oversight and direction to supporting functional area panels. The
FWG reviews actions under consideration by functional area panels and determines which actions are
sufficiently staffed to go forward, with recommendations, to the Facilities Board (FB).
Facility Manager Alternate—The person assigned to assume full responsibilities in the absence of the
Primary FM.
Primary Facility Manager—The person having the primary responsibility for specific real property and
RPIE. This person is concerned with the care, custody and protection of the assigned real property. He or
she serves as the CE point of contact for their organization.
Real Property—Includes lands and interests therein, buildings, structures, improvement and
appurtenances thereto, warehouses, rights-of-way, easements and permanently attached improvements. It
does not include machinery, equipment or tools not affixed to any such lands or buildings or removed
from them.
Real Property Accountable Officer—The individual (military or civilian) appointed by the base
commander to maintain real property accountable records. The Chief, Resources Flight, serves as Real
Property Accountable Officer.
Real Property Installed Equipment—Those items of government-owned or leased accessory
equipment, apparatus and fixtures that are essential to the function of the real property and are
permanently attached to, integrated into or on government-owned or leased property. Excluded is
organization or collateral equipment reflected in the equipment authorization inventory data (EAID), as
14                                                                  AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008


shown in AFMAN 23-110. Also excluded are other technical, medical, commissary, aircraft installed,
fixed laundry and dry cleaning, MARS, cryptographic, automatic data processing, rental equipment
research and development and so on.
Real Property Similar Equipment—Non-RPIE structures and equipment deployed permanently
assigned to an installation as building substitutes that support a MAJCOM mission. RPSE is not
considered real property, as accountability will be strictly in the control of the user. Examples include (but
are not limited to) hush houses, Survivable Collective Protective Systems (SCPS-2 and SCPS-M),
uninterruptible power supplies, KMU-450 Chemical Protective Systems, Tactical Shelter Systems and
Chemically Hardened Air Transportable Hospitals. Civil engineer support for RPSE should be provided
according to a memorandum of understanding with the owning organization, reimbursable and subject to
man-hour availability. Recurring requirements should be addressed and negotiated for contractual
support.
Self-Help Work—Work falling under CE responsibility but accomplished by the requesting or using
organization with donated labor and/or materials
Service Call—A 24-hour, seven day a week service designed to receive, authorize and respond to
emergency work.
AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008                                                                            15


                                                 Attachment 2

                          REAL PROPERTY INSTALLED EQUIPMENT

A2.1. Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE): The following is a list for guidance purposes and is not
considered to be all inclusive. Organizational equipment, although installed, is not RPIE.
   A2.1.1. Building Equipment:
   Air Dryers/Compressors, permanently installed that are not in the support of communication lines.
   Dehumidifiers, built-in, that are not an integral part of an air conditioning system.
   Built-in household dishwashers.
   Garbage disposal units, only when built in.
   Appliances that are installed in Military Family Housing (including plug-in)
   Elevators, including auxiliary parts.
   Evaporative coolers permanently installed.
   Fans, induced draft ventilating, permanently installed.
   Heat pumps and other heating units permanently connected to a utility line.
   Hoists, monorail and bridge crane hoists that are permanently attached to the building and that are not
   removed for service or repair.
   Hydraulic lifts, fixed automotive.
   Refrigerated, cold storage enclosure.
   Walk-in refrigeration, built-in, complete with operating unit.
   Scales, built-in.
   Paint spray booths, fixed and filter types.
   Latrine equipment such as lavatories, closet bowls, urinals and miscellaneous latrine facilities, equip-
   ment or fixtures.
   Master lock systems.
   Antennas and Environmental Monitor Control Systems equipment, government owned.
   Warm air and ventilating air handling units.
   Range canopies with exhaust systems.
   Water softeners, all types.
   Chapel equipment, such as pews, altars, built-in lecterns and pulpits.
   Theater seats secured to the floor and fire screens in Air Force theaters.
   Theater seats bolted to the floor in briefing rooms.
   Large stage and school auditorium curtains that are opened electrically or mechanically. Army Air
   Force Exchange Service (AAFES) has retained ownership in Air Force theaters.
16                                                                     AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008


     Playground equipment that is permanently sited and fixed to real property. Includes such items such as
     slides, swings, seesaws and similar equipment.
     Bowling alley lanes, approaches and ball returns. These are accounted for as part of the building.
     Installed carpet (wall to wall) or carpet tile when installed on initial floor finish of the building or part
     thereof.
     Packaged air conditioning including window units, except where non-appropriated fund activities are
     authorized to retain accountability.
     Sauna baths built in and integrated into the building.
     Cathodic protection systems.
     Exterior Utility Distribution, Storage and Protective Systems:
     Pumps, liquid dispensing, installed.
     Transformers, street or electric lighting, complete with switch.
     Fire hydrants and water hydrants.
     Heat distribution systems, including manholes and pump enclosures.
     A2.1.2. Plants:
     Built-in air conditioning units, including cooling towers, pumps, controls, etc., air handling units,
     water chillers, chilled water handling units, chilled water circulating pumps, piping and valves and all
     other equipment necessary for the functional operation of the plant.
     Pumps, piping valves, control tanks, etc., necessary for functional operation of water treatment plants
     and pumping stations.
     Boiler and auxiliary equipment, such as meters, valves, controls, tanks, pumps, gauges, instruments,
     etc., necessary for functional operation of a heating or boiler plant (including manholes and pumps).
     Air compressors, tanks, pipes, valves, controls, etc., necessary for functional operation of the plant.
     Cold storage equipment, such as refrigeration, compressors, pipes, valves, tanks, controls, etc. and all
     other equipment necessary for functional operation of the plant.
     Generators, fixed nonportable. Electric power generating units, 50 to 60 cycle, necessary to satisfy
     poor systems requirement according to criteria of AFI 32-1062.
AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008                                                                         17


                                            Attachment 3

                        FACILITY MANAGER APPOINTMENT LETTER
(Date)


MEMORANDUM FOR 31 CES/CEOC


FROM: (Requesting Organization/Office Symbol)


SUBJECT: Appointment of Facility Manager


The following personnel are appointed the positions of primary and alternate Facility Managers for
Bldg(s): ___________________________________________




Primary: (Name, last, first, MI, Rank, Duty Phone, Home Phone, e-mail address, DEROS)




Alternate: (Name, last, first, MI, Rank, Duty Phone, Home Phone, e-mail address, DEROS)




                                                           [Signature of Organization Commander]
18                                                                    AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008


                                                Attachment 4

               FACILITY MANAGER’S ENERGY CONSERVATION GUIDELINES


This is a guideline for you to use to assess and improve the energy efficiency of your building. With the
help of CE and the Base Energy Conservation Officer (ECO); you can get your building up to Air Force
energy standards.
1. Lighting: Remove unnecessary lights in halls, utility rooms and outside. Replacing a 150 watt flood
light with the new 75 watt ER type will save $15.00 a year. Replacing old fluorescent bulbs can also save
money with no loss in lighting. If your facility has incandescent lighting, consider converting to fluores-
cent. Fluorescent lighting uses less than ½ the energy of conventional lighting.
1.1. Establish a regular maintenance schedule for timers that control lights and heating/air conditioning
equipment. Ensure the timers are reset after each power outage.
1.2. Occasionally walk through your facility late at night. Look for lights left on and things that sound like
they may be using energy needlessly (hissing, humming and fans). If you find something that might need
to be repaired, call CE.
1.3. Where outside lighting is necessary, be sure photoelectric cells are used to turn them on and off auto-
matically. Inspect regularly to ensure no outside lights are left on during the day.
1.4. Keep lighting fixtures clean to ensure all available light is utilized.


1.5. If fluorescent light bulbs are removed, contact CE to disconnect the ballast. Ballasts still consume
power even if light bulbs are not installed.
2. Hot water: Be sure the hot water in your facility is not too hot. Hot water should not exceed a tempera-
ture of 110 degrees F in most facilities. Energy will be saved in reduced heat losses in the distribution sys-
tem and in the reduction of cold water used to cool the hot water used by personnel.
2.1. If you suspect the controls of your hot water system are not working properly, contact CE.
2.2. Check your hot water pipes to be sure that all pipes are insulated. If not, contact CE.
2.3. Contact CE to repair all water leaks. A leak that can fill a coffee cup in ten minutes will waste over
3,200 gallons of water a year.
3. Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC): There are many factors that, if ignored, will reduce
the efficiency of an HVAC system. Among these are dirty coils and filters, infiltration, improper thermo-
stat settings, unoccupied operation of the HVAC system and improper balancing. Balancing of the HVAC
system is disrupted mainly by two causes. First, the unauthorized adjustment of the balancing dampers of
louvers at the air supply diffuser. Second, open windows. Both can cause additional heating or cooling to
the rest of the facility that shares the same HVAC system. CE recommends the following actions be taken:
3.1. Close all windows. If the temperature in any room is unusually high or low, contact CE Customer
Service Unit.
3.2. Never operate exhaust fans when facilities are unoccupied.
AVIANOABI32-1004 28 MAY 2008                                                                             19


3.3. Keep surfaces of radiators, convectors, baseboards and finned tube heaters clean for efficient opera-
tion.
3.4. Set thermostats in offices and recreation rooms to 68 degrees F (20 C) in winter and 78 degrees F (25
C) in summer.
3.5. Clean filters and coils in window units.
3.6. Turn off air conditioning in unoccupied facilities. During winter, set thermostats back to 55 degrees F
(13 C) in unoccupied facilities.
3.7. Remove obstructions that restrict free flow of air through heating and air conditioning vents and
returns.
3.8. If you suspect your facility HVAC system is not properly balanced or adjusted, or it may need some
repair, contact CE Customer Service Unit.
3.9. If a room is no longer being used, request CE close off the air ducts and balance the system.
3.10. Inspect the thermostats AT LEAST twice per week. If your thermostats are within reach of the occu-
pants they will be tampered with. Post temperature settings near the thermostat to help prevent tampering.
3.11. Avoid any unnecessary cooling in the summer. Cool only when needed and never below 78 degrees
F (25 C).
4. Self-Help: You can do a large part of conserving energy by replacing weather stripping, leaky faucets,
setting thermostats, etc. Visit the Self-Help store for supplies and materials to make these minor repairs.
5. If you need assistance to identify areas needing attention with respect to energy, call on the ECO. The
ECO will be happy to assist you in any way possible to conserve energy.
