BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                               AVIANO AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 24-101
AVIANO (USAFE)                                                                   21 NOVEMBER 2005

                                                                                        Transportation

                                                                            VEHICLE OPERATIONS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 31LRS/LGRO                                                            Certified by: 31 LRS/LGRO
       (MSgt Andrew P. Meyers)                                                (SMSgt Berry L. Squires)
Supersedes AVIANOABI24-101,                                                                   Pages: 11
           8 November 2002                                                               Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 24-1, Preparation and Movement of Air Force
Materiel, establishes guidelines for operation of Government Motor Vehicles (GMVs), and applies to all
31st Fighter Wing personnel, and associated agencies. Maintain records resulting from these processes in
accordance with Air Force Manual 37-123, Management of Records, and dispose of records in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management Systems (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule.
Protect personal information from inadvertent unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the Privacy Act
of 1974.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

1. Official Use of Government-Owned, -Rented or -Leased Motor Vehicles:
   1.1. Official Use Policy. Under Air Force Instruction 24-301, Vehicle Operations, GMVs are For
   Official Use Only. Vehicles rented using military orders or leased under the local purchase authority
   are also considered GMVs. The key purpose is to perform tasks directly related to your assigned
   duties. For TDY personnel, Air Force Instruction 24-301 also authorizes the use of GMVs for suste-
   nance purposes detailed in the Official Use Matrix in paragraph 1.3. Because of widely dispersed
   lodging locations, the wing commander deems a 15-mile radius from your billeting location as a “rea-
   sonable local area” for these sustenance purposes. If you have further questions, contact your unit
   vehicle control officer (VCO) or Vehicle Dispatch.
   1.2. Key rules of use:
       1.2.1. GMV operators will adhere to posted speed limits.
       1.2.2. Personnel will not consume alcoholic beverages in GMVs, nor will they operate GMVs
       under the influence of alcohol or any other drug.
2                                                           AVIANOABI24-101 21 NOVEMBER 2005


       1.2.3. Personnel will be familiar with off-limits roads and size/weight restrictions.
       1.2.4. Personnel other than military, DoD civilians, local national employees and DoD contractors
       may not operate GMVs.
       1.2.5. Unauthorized or willful misuse of GMVs in violation of this policy violates public law and
       Air Force Instruction 24-301, and may result in disciplinary action under the Uniform Code of
       Military Justice. Civilian personnel may be subject to suspension from duty without pay or
       removal from office if circumstances warrant. Moreover, misuse tarnishes the military’s image.
       1.2.6. Vehicles will only be driven after the driver or drivers receive a Wing Safety Local Condi-
       tions briefing and fulfill Allied Forces in Italy (AFI) licensing procedures.
       1.2.7. Unit VCO personnel control off-base use of assigned GMVs. Each unit will have estab-
       lished procedures for tracking vehicle operators, mileage and vehicle use when their GMVs leave
       Aviano AB facilities. This includes travel between all areas such as going from the flight line to
       Area 1 or 2. All vehicle operators must coordinate with their unit VCO prior to departing any des-
       ignated installation area. These established procedures will help support administrative functions
       in cases of accidents or traffic violations.
    1.3. Official use matrix for GMVs:
       1.3.1. The below matrix is not intended to be all-inclusive, but to provide answers to most com-
       monly asked questions about official use. It was developed from Air Force Instruction 24-301.
       Any questions should be referred to Vehicle Operations. Some inquiries may be referred to Base
       Legal for final determination.
       1.3.2. When questions arise about official use of motor vehicles, they shall be resolved in favor of
       strict compliance with statutory provisions. Ask yourself these questions:
           1.3.2.1. Is the purpose of the trip official? Does the trip further the mission of the Air Force?
           1.3.2.2. Does the request have the potential to create a perception that will reflect unfavorably
           on the Air Force or cause public criticism?
           1.3.2.3. Will the request impact mission requirements?
           1.3.2.4. Is commercial or DoD scheduled transportation available? It is important to note that
           the Air Force does not provide support that competes with commercial services.
       1.3.3. This official use matrix is a quick reference guide applicable to most situations users will
       encounter:
AVIANOABI24-101 21 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                         3



User request                                Allowed for permanent   Allowed for TDY personnel?
                                            party or civilian
                                            personnel?
Units to provide transportation for         Yes                     Yes
personnel officially taking part in
public ceremonies, parades and
military field demonstrations.
Transport civilian organizations to         Yes                     N/A
military installations to take part in
base activities in the interest of public
relations when officially invited and
approved by the installation
commander or other competent
authority.
Provide exclusive assignment of Air         No                      No
Force vehicles to an individual based
on grade, prestige or personal
convenience.
Transport to and from scheduled             Yes for Active Duty     Yes
appointments, i.e. medical, record          personnel only.
checks, etc.
Transportation provided for the             No                      Yes, when required for the
purpose of conducting personal                                      sustenance of the member. If used
business.                                                           off-base, restrict to reputable
                                                                    eating establishments in
                                                                    reasonable proximity of base.
Transport between places of business,       No                      Yes, but use of transportation to
fitness centers, consolidated clubs and                             any other entertainment or
non-appropriated fund facilities                                    recreational facilities is prohibited.
required for the health and comfort of
the individuals such as drugstore,
barbershop, places of worship,
cleaners, and gyms.
Use vehicles owned or leased for    No, unless waived by          N/A
personal or government directed     installation commanders for
household good moves.               emergency or unusual
                                    situations.
Use GMVs for conducting sponsorship Yes, only to pick up at       No
duties.                             airports/AMC terminal and
                                    drop off at lodging location.
4                                                          AVIANOABI24-101 21 NOVEMBER 2005


User request                             Allowed for permanent          Allowed for TDY personnel?
                                         party or civilian
                                         personnel?
Use vehicles to travel between           No                             Yes, when public or commercial
domicile and place of duty.                                             facilities are inadequate or
                                                                        non-existent.
Transport base and command teams         Yes, if routed through 31      N/A
(spectators) to scheduled sporting       SVS, 31 LRS, and approved
events.                                  by Installation CC; only after
                                         mission requirements have
                                         been met.
Ride to entertainment facilities.        No                              No
Take vehicles to dining facilities.      No, unless authorized by        Yes
                                         installation CC. (Authorized
                                         units are listed in this AI and
                                         unit VCOs have a letter.)
Go to restaurants not en route to        No                              Yes
official business, but which don’t
exceed the Permissive Operating
Distance (POD).
Go to restaurants en route while         Yes                            Yes
off-base on official business.


Below are non-military activities:


Let spouses and dependents of military   Yes                            Yes
members use GMVs for official
functions where their presence is
officially required and the government
incurs at no extra cost.
Let spouses and dependents of military   No                             No
members take GMVs to any location
other than an official function.
Limited transportation support for the   Yes, when not detrimental to N/A
Child Development Center.                the mission.
Provide support for the chapel program   Yes, support is predicted on Yes
activities such as special groups,       the availability of chapel
chapel youth trips, etc.                 funding, vehicles and
                                         operators; it must not pose a
                                         detriment to higher priority
                                         missions. Staff Chaplain
                                         submits request.
AVIANOABI24-101 21 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                       5


User request                              Allowed for permanent           Allowed for TDY personnel?
                                          party or civilian
                                          personnel?
Transport base and command teams          Yes, if routed through 31       Identical
and spectators to scheduled sporting      SVS and 31 LRS/LGRVO
events.                                   and then approved by 31
                                          FW/CC and only after
                                          mission requirements have
                                          been met.
Transport entertainers, guest and         Yes, identical routing          Identical
supplies essential to morale and          procedures as above and
welfare programs.                         only after mission
                                          requirements have been met.
Base-sponsored tours and trips when       Yes, identical routing          Identical
operated on a non-profit basis.           procedures as above and
                                          only after mission
                                          requirements have been met.
Transport special activities such as      Yes, if part of MWR             N/A
scouting programs.                        activities (signed charter).
                                          The key to providing support
                                          is that the organization must
                                          be part of base youth
                                          activities.
Provide support to DoD school             No, DETMO should support        N/A
activities.                               all school services.
Support other categories of NAF           Maybe, certain activities       Identical
programs and special activities.          may use GMVs on a
                                          reimbursable basis to 31
                                          LRS/LGRVO.

2. Transportation Support to and from international airports:
   2.1. Vehicle Operations will transport parties of eight or more passengers. The only exceptions to the
   eight passenger rule are Distinguished Visitor transport requests received through the wing Protocol
   Office; and transportation of group commanders (or equivalent) and above.
   2.2. Group commanders (or equivalent) and above may be picked up and dropped off at their domi-
   cile.

3. Policy on off-limit roads and areas:
   3.1. Roads and areas off-limits to all GMVs:
       3.1.1. Via Menegoz: the road behind Area D between Area E (16 AF) and the railroad underpass
       (See Attachment 2).
6                                                           AVIANOABI24-101 21 NOVEMBER 2005


       3.1.2. From the railroad underpass and Via Garibaldi (the serpentine road leading to the stoplight
       by Aviano Inn).
       3.1.3. Via Sacile in Aviano, the left hand turn before the traffic light at the grey mall.
       3.1.4. Roads north of mountain highway including those leading to Piancavallo, Barcis and Mez-
       zomonte.
       3.1.5. Via Pedemonte: the road leading to the mountain highway (accessed by turning left out of
       Area 1).
       3.1.6. The town of Castello di Aviano and all roads leading into this town.
    3.2. Exemptions to off-limits roads and areas:
       3.2.1. Emergency response vehicles (law enforcement, medical and fire response) may proceed
       on off-limits roads and through the underpass only when responding to emergencies. Emergency
       response vehicles performing normal transit between Areas 1 and 2 and the flight line will adhere
       to the above policies and use the main road through Aviano. Command and Control vehicles may
       operate on off-limits roads and through the underpass at the discretion of unit commanders.
       3.2.2. The 31st Civil Engineer Squadron Housing Flight is exempt in entirety from this policy for
       the purpose of local housing acquisition and inspection.
       3.2.3. Armed Forces Network (AFN) for transmitter servicing and film shoots only.
       3.2.4. Traffic Management Office (TMO) for the purpose of quality control visits during house-
       hold goods inspections.
       3.2.5. TDY personnel who are billeted north of “mountain highway” may use their GMV to drive
       to their billeting site (i.e., GMVs may be used for transport to lodging at Hotel Prata Plana on the
       road to Piancavallo).
    3.3. Vehicle Weight Restrictions. There are areas where weight restrictions apply to GMVs. One
    restriction applies to Roveredo’s town square area. The section of Roveredo, which is off-limits to
    vehicles weighing over 3,500 kilograms (7,700 pounds), is the segment of G. Mazzini between P.
    Roma and F. Cavalotti. This area is well-marked with no truck tracking signs. When traveling to the
    Air Force’s Roveredo storage warehouse or Porcia through Roveredo, all vehicles above the
    7,700-pound weight must use the alternate route shown on the attached map.

4. Units authorized to use GMVs at on-base dining facilities:
    4.1. Specific units authorized. The following units have validated their emergency or rapid response
    requirements and are authorized to use GMVs to transport personnel to/from on-base dining facilities
    in accordance with Air Force Instruction 24-301, paragraph 2.7.3:
       4.1.1. 31st Civil Engineering Squadron, Fire Protection
       4.1.2. 31st Security Forces Squadron, patrol and response vehicles
    4.2. Program management procedures. Approved units will adhere to these procedures to ensure
    proper program management and to preclude abuses.
AVIANOABI24-101 21 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                            7


       4.2.1. Approved units will be self-policing. Commanders will maintain close scrutiny of this pro-
       gram to prevent vehicle misuse, and will take the appropriate disciplinary action if violations
       occur.
       4.2.2. Approved on-base dining facilities include any 31st Services Squadron dining hall, La
       Bella Vista Collocated Club, Mensa, Army & Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) Food Court,
       AAFES Mini-Mall, Bowling Center, Golf Course Snack Bar, flight line snack bar and Marco’s
       Gyros. Permanent party personnel are not authorized to use GMVs to go to off-base restaurants.
   4.3. Security Forces Squadron policy. Emergency response vehicles are authorized to go to the Shop-
   pette when all on-base dining facilities are closed.
       4.3.1. Personnel on official government business may take a GMV to AAFES Base/Post
       Exchange (BX/PX) to make Government Purchase Card (GPC) purchases.

5. Permissible Operating Distance (POD):
   5.1. The POD for government-owned,-rented and-leased vehicles assigned to the 31st Fighter Wing
   and tenant units in the Aviano area are:
       5.1.1. North to Maniago on SS251 (15 miles)
       5.1.2. South to Portoguaro on A28 (38 miles)
       5.1.3. East to Trieste on A4 (75 miles) and Udine on SS13 (40 miles)
       5.1.4. West to Marco Polo Airport on A28/27 (60 miles) and Vicenza on A4/E70/A31 (100 miles)
       5.1.5. All roads south of autostrada are not included in POD
   5.2. General POD Guidance. Generally, the POD is the distance from the installation that GMVs
   travel before competing with commercial carriers. More importantly, it is a management tool for the
   Vehicle Management Flight to ensure trips are consolidated when feasible, and is used to establish and
   maintain an effective efficient transportation system.
   5.3. Exception to policy. Units with a requirement to take GMVs outside of the POD must request
   approval through Vehicle Dispatch prior to departing.

6. U.S. Forces in Italy Motor Vehicle Operator’s License IAW Naval Support Activity (NAVSUPACT)
   6.1. Requirements of license. Under NAVSUPPACT Naples Instruction 11240.29C, all U.S. DoD
   military (to include TDY personnel), civilian personnel and their command sponsored dependents
   who are entitled to operate government-owned, -leased, or -rented or privately-owned vehicles are
   required to have in their possession a valid state or European Union driver’s license plus their AFI
   license. The AFI license is only a translation of a driver’s license and is not valid outside of Italy. All
   personnel who plan to drive outside of Italy must obtain an International Drivers License.
   6.2. Issuance of license. All applicants must have in their possession one of the following in order to
   receive an AFI license and be qualified as follows:
       6.2.1. A valid driver’s license from one of the 50 United States or U.S. territories.
       6.2.2. A valid driver’s license from another country.
       6.2.3. A valid international driver’s license (except if issued in Italy).
8                                                          AVIANOABI24-101 21 NOVEMBER 2005


       6.2.4. Applicant must be at least eighteen years of age at the time of application.
       6.2.5. Attend the Local Conditions Course II briefing.
       6.2.6. Successfully pass a locally administered test consisting of multiple-choice questions and
       signs. The First Sergeant and supervisor will be notified of individuals who fail the test three
       times. The First Sergeant or supervisor must request that a fourth test be administered.
       6.2.7. TDY personnel must follow the above guidelines and have a copy of TDY orders to be
       attached to the AFI license application.
           6.2.7.1. TDYs of 60 days or less are not required to take the test.
           6.2.7.2. TDYs of more than 60 days are required to take the test.
       6.2.8. Local nationals, working for the U.S. Government who are required to operate a GMV for
       official duties, are required to possess a valid Italian license, AFI license, GMV license (AF Form
       2293) and a base pass. Local Nationals are not required to attend the Local Conditions briefing or
       take the written test.
    6.3. Expiration of license. The expiration date on the AFI license will be as follows:
       6.3.1. U.S. Military--the individual’s DEROS, provided the driver’s license held allows for auto-
       matic renewal for that state; if not, the expiration date will be whichever date is earlier.
       6.3.2. Dependents--expiration date on stateside driver’s license or sponsor’s Date Eligible for
       Return From Overseas (DEROS), whichever date is earlier.
       6.3.3. U.S. DoD civilians/contractors and their authorized dependents--the expiration date of con-
       tract, privileges identification card or drivers license date, whichever date is earlier.
       6.3.4. TDY personnel for 60 days or less--license will expire on last day of TDY as stated on
       orders, provided the driver’s license is valid throughout TDY; otherwise, whichever date is earlier.
       6.3.5. TDY personnel for 61 days or more--license will expire one year from time of application,
       provided the drivers’ license is valid throughout the one year; otherwise, whichever date is earlier.
       6.3.6. Local Nationals--license will expire on same date as their Italian driver’s license or their
       base pass, whichever is earlier.
    6.4. Renewal procedures. Submittal of a stateside license renewal is the individual’s responsibility.
    Renewals must be made prior to the expiration date on the license. All personnel who require renewal
    of AFI license must:
       6.4.1. Provide a copy of the DEROS extension rip to the AFI licensing office.
       6.4.2. May be granted a one-time issue of a 60-day temporary license upon verification that the
       individual submitted a proper renewal request to his/her stateside authority within 60 days prior to
       expiration.
       6.4.3. Local Nationals--provide AFI licensing office with renewed Italian driver’s license or base
       pass.
       6.4.4. Individuals will be required to re-test if an AFI license has been expired for more the 60
       days.
AVIANOABI24-101 21 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                       9


  6.5. Procedures for a lost, stolen or destroyed license. Under the Legislative Decree N.285, a report
  must be made to public security (i.e. Polizia, Carabinieri, or Security Forces). Once a report has been
  completed, a copy must be provided to the AFI licensing office, at which time, the AFI licensing per-
  sonnel will then be authorized to issue a temporary license, provided that the individual possesses a
  valid stateside/territory license.



                                             THOMAS G. SADLO, Lt Col, USAF
                                             Commander, 31st Logistics Readiness Squadron
10                                               AVIANOABI24-101 21 NOVEMBER 2005


                                       Attachment 1

            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFN—Armed Forces Network
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Services
AFI—Allied Forces in Italy
BX—Base Exchange
CACV—Command and Control Vehicle
DEROS—Date Eligible Return from Overseas
DETMO—DODDS European Transportation Management Office
GMV—Government Motor Vehicle
GPC—Government Purchase Card
MWR—Morale, Welfare and Recreation
NAVSUPACT—Naval Support Activity
POD—Permissible Operating Distance
PX—Post Exchange
TDY—Temporary Duty
TMO—Transportation Management Office
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
AVIANOABI24-101 21 NOVEMBER 2005                 11


                               Attachment 2

                         AVIANO GMV OFF-LIMITS
