BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                          AVIANO AB INSTRUCTION 52-101
AVIANO (USAFE)                                                                            9 MARCH 2007

                                                                                                  Chaplain

                                                                              SAVE HAVEN PROGRAM




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 31 FW/HC                                           Certified by: 31 FW/CC (Brig Gen Robert Yates)
                                                                                            Pages: 3

This operating instruction describes the policies and procedures for the Safe Haven Program, where vic-
tims or potential victims of domestic violence or other situations who are, or may be, in a threatening or
unsafe environment, are provided a sanctuary/safe haven on a temporary basis. This instruction applies to
all personnel assigned to the 31st Fighter Wing, Aviano AB, Italy and Safe Haven guests. Refer recom-
mended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using
the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through
the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes pre-
scribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN
33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.
PURPOSE:
The primary purpose of establishing a Safe Haven Program is to provide Aviano AB community members
a relatively safe and anonymous location to escape domestic violence or to escape the possibility of
domestic violence when such actions may be imminent.

1. PROCEDURES:
Any First Sergeant, Unit Commander, Family Advocacy Representative, Sexual Assault Response Coor-
dinator (SARC) or Chaplain may use the Safe Haven program as needed to provide Aviano AB commu-
nity members a temporary and anonymous safe haven to escape a situation where domestic violence is
present, or where the potential for domestic violence is imminent.
Because use of O&M funds are authorized through AFI 65-601 para 4.32.1.1.(Chapel and Chaplain Pro-
grams), the duty chaplain must be notified before lodging reservations are made. The duty chaplain can be
contacted through the Command Post 24 hrs a day. Organizations can make chaplain service intervention
available to the victims of domestic abuse/violence but cannot mandate the use of chaplain services. Com-
manders and First Sergeants are reminded AFI 40-301 para 1.16 requires all active duty members and
civilian employees to report all incidents of suspected family maltreatment to the Family Advocacy
2                                                                AVIANOABI52-101 9 MARCH 2007


Officer. Exceptions are made for the SARC in cases of “Restricted Reporting” and with the chaplain’s
office where the right to “Privileged Communication” has been invoked.
Reservations are only accepted from the member’s First Sergeant or Commander and from Family Advo-
cacy, SARC or 31 Fighter Wing Chaplain’s office. Reservations are placed through the Mountain View
Lodge General Manager, NCOIC, or Guest Services Manager. Reservations will not be placed through the
Front Desk or Reservation personnel.
Mountain View Lodge management staff will be accessible 24-hrs a day and management staff will notify
the Commander, Combat Support Flight, 31 SVS as soon as possible after a Safe Haven reservation is
received.
If space is not available on base, the lodging management staff will coordinate with the Commander,
Combat Support Flight for further guidance before relocating an in-bound and/or in-house guest to com-
mercial quarters to create availability for a Safe Haven guest. The guest’s name will be “data masked” in
the Lodging Touch System (LTS) by registering the individual under an alias name (i.e. Jane Smith); how-
ever, the guest’s name, unit or helping agency supporting the individual will be identified in the folio’s
comment line. Safe Haven location will only be known and released to lodging management staff, Ser-
vices Squadron leadership, applicable First Sergeant, Commander, or helping agency representative.
After coordinating with the chaplain’s office, the unit or agency will use their Government Purchase Card
as the method of payment for the lodging room. The unit will contact their squadron resource advisor,
who will notify the Financial Analysis Flight (FMA) of the date and amount of purchases and will provide
receipts supporting their expenses. The FMA office will make arrangements for the exact expended dollar
amount to be transferred from the Base Wide Account to the unit’s account via an AF Form 1269. In the
event the 31 Fighter Wing Chapel must pay for these expenses with its O&M GPC, they will be reim-
bursed using the same method as described above.
If O&M funds become unavailable, Chapel Tithe and Offerings Funds (CTOF) may be used on a limited
basis. The use of CTOF funds or any other means of payment outside of the unit GPC must be approved
by the Commander of the Combat Support Flight.
The Command Post has a listing of all authorized alternate Lodging After-Hours Contacts as well as con-
tact numbers for the duty chaplain and 31 Fighter Wing Chaplain.



                                               ROBERT YATES, Brigadier General
                                               Commander
AVIANOABI52-101 9 MARCH 2007                                       3


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
3.1. AFI 52-101, Planning and Organizing
3.2. AFI 65-601, Paragraph 4.32.1.1 Chapel and Chaplain Programs
3.3. AFI 40-301, Paragraph 1.16. Family Advocacy
3.4. AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program
