BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                               AVIANO INSTRUCTION 24-307
AVIANO (USAFE)                                                                            01 AUGUST 2005

                                                                                             Transportation

                                                                              POV SAFETY STANDARDS




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 31 LRS/LGRVM                                                              Certified by: 31 LRS/LGRV
       (MSgt Rene L. Van Den Heuvel)                                                (Capt Jonathan Lawson)
Supersedes AVIANOI24-307, 28 September 2004                                                       Pages: 11
                                                                                             Distribution: F

This instruction applies to all privately owned vehicles operating on Aviano Air Base. It also identifies
safety guidelines required to operate on Aviano. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Revisions have been made IAW Italian Road Code Articles 71-78 to enhance the safety of Privately
Owned Vehicles (POV) operating on Aviano AB, Italy.
INTRODUCTION: 31 LRS/LGRVM Form 1, Vehicle Safety Inspection Record, will be used to inspect
Privately Owned Vehicles (POV). Vehicles that fail inspection due to items identified by a single asterisk
(*) will not be operated on the confines of Aviano Air Base until repairs have been made and the vehicle
re-inspected. Owners may operate vehicles on the confines of Aviano Air Base that fail inspection due to
items identified by two asterisks (**), but they will have to repair the failed item and have the vehicle
re-inspected within 30 days. All vehicles must meet the standards listed in the Italian Technical Character-
istics Listing for each vehicle make and model. This list is not exclusive. If an inspector identifies a prob-
lem he or she feels may cause injury to operators or others, the vehicle may be rejected. Conflicts of
opinion between a POV owner and the inspector will be resolved by the POV Inspection Superintendent/
Vehicle Maintenance Manager/Foreman.


1. Electrical System. (See Attachment, Table 1.)
   1.1. Exterior Lights. Exterior lights with broken, taped or missing lenses will not be accepted. Lenses
   with small cracks, not emitting naked (white) light and not detracting from the functional operation of
   the light, will not be considered broken.
2                                                                   AVIANOI24-307 01 AUGUST 2005


       1.1.1. Headlights. Headlights will be fully operational and must function as originally designed
       by the manufacturer of the vehicle.
          1.1.1.1. Headlight High and Low Beams. Headlight high and low beams must be adjusted cor-
          rectly. Tinted headlight lenses (such as yellow lenses commonly seen in France) are prohib-
          ited. Fog lights installed as headlights are not authorized.
          1.1.1.2. Condition and Efficiency. Corroded lights are not acceptable.
          1.1.1.3. Alignment and Height. Headlight’s high and low beams will function, be adjusted so
          the light pattern strikes the alignment board within the specified range.
       1.1.2. Parking Lights/ Tail Lights. Vehicles will be equipped with operational parking lights.
       1.1.3. Turn Signals.
          1.1.3.1. A POV will be equipped with directional signals as part of the lighting system. Direc-
          tional lights, light indicators, switches, flashers and wiring must be operational and the exter-
          nal directional lights must be visible for at least 100 feet in normal daylight to the front and
          rear of the POV. Lights mounted on the fenders will be operational.
          1.1.3.2. Turn signals will be white, amber or red and not mismatched.
       1.1.4. Reverse Lights (Back-up Lights). If equipped by the manufacturer, back-up lights will be
       operational and function only when the transmission is in reverse gear. The use of a toggle switch
       to operate back-up lights is prohibited.
       1.1.5. Rear Fog Lights. If Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) equipped, must be mounted
       or installed on the rear of the vehicle. If aftermarket (non OEM), must be mounted IAW Italian
       road laws, left side of bumper.
       1.1.6. Brake Lights. POVs, except motorcycles and mopeds, must have two or more stop lights
       and tail lights. Third brake lights installed by the manufacturer must be operational. Brake lights
       must emit a red light visible from 500 feet in normal sunlight. Tail lights must emit a red light vis-
       ible from 100 feet in normal sunlight. Motorcycles and mopeds must have at least one working tail
       light and brake light. The brake light must be operated by both the hand and foot levers. All man-
       ufacturer installed brake lights will be serviceable.
       1.1.7. License Plate Lights. A tail light or separate lamp must light up the rear license plate and
       make it clearly legible. This light must be wired to function when headlights or parking lights are
       on. All lamps must work and match manufacturer’s specifications. Neon license plate lights are
       strictly prohibited.
       1.1.8. Emergency Lights (Hazard or Four-Way). Must operate with the ignition on or off.

2. Steering System. (See Attachment, Table 2.)
    2.1. Mechanical Condition.
       2.1.1. Tie-rod steering arm assemblies (steering arms, idler arms and drag links), ball joints or
       king pins will have no excessive play or damage. The boot should not be ripped, torn or cracked
       completely through the rubber.
       2.1.2. The rear axle will have no distortion or bends causing the wheels to be positioned improp-
       erly or not aligned with the axles.
AVIANOI24-307 01 AUGUST 2005                                                                                3


       2.1.3. Power steering, when equipped, will be operational.
       2.1.4. Wheels should be able to turn from full right to left without jamming or rubbing any part of
       the vehicle.
   2.2. Steering Play.
       2.2.1. Steering wheels 18 inches or less in diameter will have no more than 2 inches of free play
       before the wheels respond. Steering wheels more than 18 inches in diameter will have no more
       than 3 inches of free play before the wheels respond.
       2.2.2. Steering components will not have any excessive free play IAW OEM specifications

3. Power Train. (See Attachment, Table 3.)
   3.1. Axles, Drive Shaft.
       3.1.1. The axle or drive shaft should not be bent or rubbing any part of the vehicle.
       3.1.2. CV boots should not have tears and/or leak grease, or have cracks that penetrate through the
       rubber.
       3.1.3. U-joints, CV joints and bearings should have no excessive play or show signs of abnormal
       or extensive wear.
   3.2. Suspension (Shocks).
       3.2.1. Shock absorbers will not leak or show signs of fresh oil leaking.
       3.2.2. Shock absorbers must cushion the bouncing action of the vehicle within two cycles.
       3.2.3. Shock absorber mountings, shackles, bushings and U-bolts will be attached securely.
       3.2.4. Leaf/coil springs, sway bars, mountings and U-bolts will be attached securely. They will
       not be broken, modified or extended above the vehicle manufacturer’s design height.

4. Braking System.
   4.1. POVs must have two separate means of applying brakes. The failure of one braking system must
   not affect the other. Stopping distances will vary with different type and weights of vehicles and many
   other technical factors. Inspectors will use maximum discretion in judging the adequacy of vehicle
   braking.
       4.1.1. Mechanical Condition. (See Attachment, Table 4.)
          4.1.1.1. Inspectors will inspect front brake hoses and lines through all wheel positions from
          full left to full right for defects. Rubber brake lines will not be cracked, chafed, or cut exposing
          the inner cord. Badly rusted, corroded, worn or flattened steel lines will not be accepted.
       4.1.2. Examine for evidence of brake fluid leaks at all brake system components.
       4.1.3. When the brake pedal is fully depressed, the distance that the pedal has traveled from its
       free position will not be greater than 80% of the total distance from its free position to the floor-
       board or other object that restricts the pedal.
   4.2. Hand/Emergency Brake.
4                                                                     AVIANOI24-307 01 AUGUST 2005


       4.2.1. Mechanical Condition.
       4.2.2. Cable will not be frayed and must freely move back to the release position.
       4.2.3. Hand brake levers must lock wheels when applied.
       4.2.4. Efficiency. The parking brake must be able to stop the vehicle and prevent the vehicle from
       moving forward. The test is to prevent a vehicle from moving with the parking brake engaged
       from a stationary position.

5. Tires/Rims. (See Attachment, Table 5.)
    5.1. The tread depth of all tires will be at least 2/32 of an inch (1 mm) over the entire traction surface.
    The use of re-grooved tires is permitted.
       5.1.1. Tires will be free from chunking, breaks, bumps, knots, bulges or dry rot. Tire cords or belt-
       ing materials will not be visible to the naked eye or when probed.
       5.1.2. A POV will be equipped with bias, belt or radial tires of the same size. Mixing radial tires
       with bias-ply tires on the same vehicle will not be accepted.
       5.1.3. Tires will not protrude from the fender wells more then ¼” at the top edge of outer fender
       well and in accordance with OEM Specifications.
    5.2. Rims.
       5.2.1. A tire rim (wheel or disc) will have no visible cracks, missing chunks, elongated bolt holes
       or indication of repair by welding.
       5.2.2. All wheel nuts and bolts will be in place and tight.

6. Safety restraint devices.
    6.1. A POV, regardless of age, must have serviceable seat belts installed for all seating positions, front
    and rear. Front seatbelts must have lap belts or combination shoulder/harness/lap belt installed.
       6.1.1. All restraint devices will be in serviceable condition (i.e. no tears or cuts in material, latches
       or locking mechanisms should lock securely and retracting devices should work).
    6.2. Seat belts will not be altered in any way, shape, form or fashion.

7. Visibility.
    7.1. Any aftermarket items mounted or placed on the vehicle that inhibits the driver’s visibility will
    cause the vehicle to be rejected (i.e. stickers on windows, rear spoilers, speakers in rear windows, etc).
    (See Attachment, Table 6.
       7.1.1. Glass. All motor vehicles which are equipped with glass must have approved auto safety
       glass in all doors, windows and windshields. American automotive safety glass standards do not
       apply in Italy, but glass must be non-shatter type required by Italian law.
       7.1.2. Windshield. The windshield must have an unobstructed viewing area on both the driver and
       passenger sides above the bottom 3-inch line and the area which is cleaned by the normal sweep
       of the windshield wipers, except the area behind the rear view mirror. The driver’s side of the
       windshield may have no outright breakage, no more than two star breaks or bull’s-eye fractures if
AVIANOI24-307 01 AUGUST 2005                                                                               5


       they are smaller than 1 inch in diameter or one break or fracture if it is less than 2 inches in diam-
       eter. The passenger side shall not have outright breakage, a star break or bull’s-eye fracture larger
       than 3 inches or two breaks or fractures with either of them over 2 inches in diameter.
          7.1.2.1. Front windshield and drivers/passenger windows will not contain any aftermarket tint
          IAW Italian Road Code Articles 71-78.
          7.1.2.2. Side and back windows will be free of any outright breakage. Substitutes such as
          Plexiglas, clear plastic or other materials will be rejected. The rear windshield shall be free of
          outright breakage that does not permit a clear view to the rear. Convertibles with OEM plastic
          windows will be transparent.
       7.1.3. Transparent or tinted (after-market) material attached to the rear or side windows non driv-
       ers/passenger to reduce glare must not distort the driver’s vision.
   7.2. Mirrors (Inside/Outside).
       7.2.1. As a minimum, vehicles must have at least a rearview mirror inside the vehicle and a
       side-view mirror on the driver’s side door. Vehicles originally equipped with a passenger’s side
       mirror must also have that mirror installed.
       7.2.2. Cracks, breaks, loosely mounted mirrors or other conditions that affect the visibility from
       the mirror will not be accepted.
   7.3. Windshield Wipers.
       7.3.1. Windshield wipers will be operational.
       7.3.2. Wiper blades will be free of tears to ensure proper visibility.
       7.3.3. Windshield Washers. Washers will be operational; empty reservoirs, washer jets not prop-
       erly aligned or clogged water jets will be considered not operational.

8. Horn. (See Attachment, Table 7)
   8.1. POVs must be equipped with a horn that is operational and capable of being heard from at least
   200 feet away.
   8.2. The horn must be controlled by buttons or other devices installed on the steering wheel unless
   equipped otherwise by the manufacturer.

9. Chassis or Truck Bed and Components Attached to Chassis. (See Attachment, Table 8)
   9.1. General Condition. Vehicle beds and body components will be securely fastened to the frame as
   designed by the manufacturer.
   9.2. Exhaust Pipes and Mufflers.
       9.2.1. Mufflers permitting the passage of excessive noise are prohibited.
       9.2.2. All parts of the exhaust system must be strong enough to resist hand pressure applied by the
       inspector.
       9.2.3. The exhaust system will be secured tightly and free of leaks.
6                                                                   AVIANOI24-307 01 AUGUST 2005


       9.2.4. Tail pipes will extend behind the rear wheels or beyond the side edge or rear of the body of
       the vehicle, unless prevented by manufacturer’s specifications.
       9.2.5. A vehicle may be rejected if it emits excessive smoke.
    9.3. Fuel Tanks and Pipes. The fuel tank filling spout will be closed by a cap. A missing fuel tank cap,
    fuel leaks or fuel vapors inside the vehicle will cause the POV to be rejected.
    9.4. Body.
       9.4.1. Structural Condition.
       9.4.2. POVs must meet the minimum standards of exterior condition considered acceptable in the
       local military or civilian community. Deficiencies (i.e. missing grill or fenders, side/rear windows,
       extensive body damage, etc.) will cause the vehicle to be rejected.
       9.4.3. Frames and one-piece bodies will not be broken, bent, corroded or modified to an extent
       that the chassis is weakened or the wheel tracking is impaired. Special attention will be given to
       inspecting the undercarriage for rust damage and structural integrity. Structural parts of floor
       boards which are rusted through and frames rebuilt with filler of any kind or riveted sheet metal
       will cause the POV to be rejected. Holes which have been repaired must be welded.
       9.4.4. Body rust and corrosion at locations which would weaken areas protecting the driver or
       passengers will cause the POV to be rejected; especially crucial areas are door panels, door posts
       and rocker panels. Metal posts and panels repaired by use of body putty or other filler material will
       cause the POV to be rejected. Rust damage that does not threaten safety will not cause a POV to
       be rejected, i.e. surface rust.
       9.4.5. Dangerous projections from a POV (for example, bumpers bent out of place, loose running
       boards, protruding molding and body trim, bent or torn hood or fenders) will cause the POV to be
       rejected.
       9.4.6. Doors and Latches. Latching devices on body doors will be operational, as designed by the
       manufacturer.
    9.5. Bumpers.
       9.5.1. A POV, except motorcycles or motorbikes, will have bumpers of the kind provided by the
       manufacturer firmly attached to both the front and rear of the vehicle.
       9.5.2. Special purpose and recreational vehicles may be excluded from having a rear bumper if
       the contained portion of the camper overhangs the bed of the vehicle by factory design and attach-
       ment of a rear bumper is impractical or unfeasible.
       9.5.3. Wooden bumpers are prohibited except when factory attached
       9.5.4. Bumper height will be IAW manufacture specifications. Unauthorized modifications to sus-
       pension and steering that affects minimum/maximum bumper height and safe operation will be
       grounds for rejection.
    9.6. Speedometers. A POV’s speedometer must be operational. The inspector may accompany the
    operator to verify or determine the operational status of the speedometer.

10. Reflectors. (See Attachment, Table 9)
AVIANOI24-307 01 AUGUST 2005                                                                                   7


   10.1. All POVs and trailers must be equipped with at least two rear red reflectors.
       10.1.1. Motorcycles and motor scooters must be equipped with at least one rear red reflector.
       10.1.2. Reflectors required by motorcycles and motor scooters above may be combined with tail
       lights or separately attached.

11. Other Equipment. (See Attachment, Table 10)
   11.1. Driver’s Seat Anchorage. The seats will be securely fastened to the floor and seat pivot mecha-
   nism will hold the backrest securely.
   11.2. Battery Anchorage. Batteries will be securely anchored to the battery tray or plate. The battery
   must be secured by the original holding device or a comparable after-market product. Substitutes such
   as rubber straps, ropes, wire or other device will not be accepted.
   11.3. License plates. Vehicles with license plates containing any cover or decorative border around or
   on it will be rejected. Both license plates will be securely fastened with at least two bolts, screws or
   brackets. String, tape or wire will not be used to secure license plates. Cover plates will have the small
   plate mounted on the front, and the long/or square plate mounted to the rear
   11.4. Vehicles leaking excessive fluids will be rejected. For the purpose of this instruction, an exces-
   sive leak is defined as being anything that allows three or more drops within 60 seconds.

12. Correction of deficiencies
   12.1. Vehicle deficiencies/discrepancies that are not corrected within a reasonable time will result in
   withdrawal of the individual’s vehicle registration. Reasonable time is defined as 30 consecutive days;
   7 days for minor repairs (i.e. light bulbs, wiper blades, etc.). If for unforeseen reasons (i.e. car parts are
   not available), an extension may be approved by the 31 MSG/CD. When an approval is granted, a
   copy of the approval request will be submitted to the 31st Security Forces Squadron’s Pass and Regis-
   tration Office (31 SFS/SFAPP) for posting with the vehicle registration master card on file.

13. Factory Installed Safety Equipment.
   13.1. Deleting, changing or modifying original manufacture installed safety components will not be
   accepted. Every vehicle will remain equipped as close to manufacturer’s specifications as possible.
   Exceptions will be considered based on fair wear-and-tear and age of the vehicle.



                                                 THOMAS G. SADLO, Lt Col, USAF
                                                 Commander, 31st Logistics Readiness Squadron
8                                                    AVIANOI24-307 01 AUGUST 2005


                                      Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Italian Road Code and Law Book
Status of Forces Agreement Italy
NAVSUPPACT 11240

Abbreviations and Acronyms
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
POV—Privately Owned Vehicles
OEM—Original Equipment Manufacturer
AVIANOI24-307 01 AUGUST 2005                                                        9


                                           Attachment 2

          CHECKLIST ALLOWED TO OPERATE/NOT ALLOWED TO OPERATE

Table A2.1. Electrical Systems
ELECTRICAL                                       NOT ALLOWED TO   OPERATE ONLY 30
SYSTEMS                                          OPERATE (*)      DAYS (**)
                       Exterior Lights                            **
                       Headlights                *
                       Headlight’s High and                       **
                       Low beams
                       Parking Lights                             **
                       Turn Signals              *
                       Reverse Lights                             **
                       Rear Fog Lights                            **
                       Brake Lights              *
                       License Plate Lights                       **
                       Emergency Lights                           **

Table A2.2. Steering Systems
STEERING SYSTEM                                  NOT ALLOWED TO   OPERATE ONLY 30
                                                 OPERATE (*)      DAYS(**)
                       Mechanical Condition      *
                       Steering Play             *

Table A2.3. Power Train
POWER TRAIN                                      NOT ALLOWED TO   OPERATE ONLY 30
                                                 OPERATE (*)      DAYS (**)
                       Axles/Drive Shaft         *
                       Suspension                                 **

Table A2.4. Braking System
BRAKING SYSTEM                                   NOT ALLOWED TO   OPERATE ONLY 30
                                                 OPERATE (*)      DAYS (**)
                       Service Brakes            *
                       Hand/Emergency Brake                       **
10                                                          AVIANOI24-307 01 AUGUST 2005


Table A2.5. Tires/Rims
TIRES/RIMS                                          NOT ALLOWED TO   ALLOWED ONLY 30
                                                    OPERATE (*)      DAYS (**)
                         Tires                      *
                         Rims                       *

Table A2.6. Visibility
VISIBILITY                                          NOT ALLOWED TO   ALLOWED ONLY 30
                                                    OPERATE (*)      DAYS (**)
                         Window and                 *
                         Windshields
                         Side and Back Window       *
                         Transparent or Tinted                       **
                         Mirrors (Inside/Outside)                    **
                         Windshield Wipers          *
                         Windshield Washers         *

Table A2.7. Horn
HORN                                                NOT ALLOWED TO   OPERATE ONLY 30
                                                    OPERATE (*)      DAYS (**)
                         Won’t Blow                 *
                         Blows, but placed other                     **
                         than on the steering
                         wheel
AVIANOI24-307 01 AUGUST 2005                                                        11


Table A2.8. Chassis/Bed/Bumpers
CHASSIS OR BED                                   NOT ALLOWED TO OPERATE ONLY 30
                                                 OPERATE (*)    DAYS (**)
                         General Condition       *
                         Exhaust Pipes and                        **
                         Mufflers
                         Fuel Tanks and Pipes    *
                         Unsafe/Unauthorized     *
                         Modifications
                         Body                    *
BUMPERS
                         Special Purpose/                         **
                         Recreational Vehicles
                         Height Min Max          *
                         Wooden                  *
                         Speedometers                             **

Table A2.9. Reflectors
REFLECTORS                                       NOT ALLOWED TO   OPERATE ONLY 30
                                                 OPERATE (*)      DAYS (**)
                         POV/Trailers                             **
                         Motorcycles/Motor                        **
                         Scooters

Table A2.10. Other Equipment
OTHER                                            NOT ALLOWED TO   OPERATE ONLY 30
EQUIPMENT                                        OPERATE (*)      DAYS (**)
                         Drivers Seat            *
                         Anchorage
                         Battery Anchorage       *
                         Emergency Equipment *
                         License Plates                           **
                         Vehicles Leaking Oil                     **
