BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     BARKSDALE AIR FORCE BASE
2D BOMB WING                                                        INSTRUCTION 32-7064

                                                                                     7 MAY 2013

                                                                                  Civil Engineer

                                                   RECREATION, HUNTING AND FISHING
                                                                        ACTIVITIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               E-publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication.


OPR: 2 CES/CEANR                                                         Certified by: 2 CES/CC
                                                                      (Lt Col Douglas F. Tippet)
Supersedes:    BarksdaleAFBI32-7064, 1                                                  Pages: 39
               July 2009


This instruction implements and extends the guidance of AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural
Resources Management. It prescribes rules and procedures and sets forth policies regarding the
protection of fish, wildlife, and related natural resources and the control of hunting and fishing
on Barksdale Air Force Base (BAFB). It applies to all persons entering BAFB for the purpose of
hunting, fishing, using fish and wildlife habitats, or attempting to take fish and wildlife from
BAFB grounds. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims.          Contact supporting records managers as
required. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action
Request, through the appropriate channels to 2d Civil Engineer Squadron, Asset Management
Flight, 334 Davis Ave East, BAFB LA 71110-2078. See Attachment 1 for references,
abbreviations, and acronyms used in this instruction.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The following is a
synopsis of major changes set forth in this revision: Paragraph 3.19: provides clarity on who
may use 3D targets. Paragraph(s) 4.8 – 4.9: defines criteria for application to use ATV’s by
mobility impaired. Paragraph 7.5: for application for free basic hunting/fishing permit by
mobility impaired, revised. Paragraph 7.7: provides changes in fee structure. adds Section 18, use
 2                                                                        BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


of hog-dogs, revised. Paragraph 12.9: removes inclusion of button buck in daily limits and
clarifies tagging requirements for button bucks.Paragraph 25.5: added appeal routing through
natural resources manager, in addition to routine grammatical edits and removing duplicate and
non-regulatory informational statements. .

       1.     RESPONSIBILITIES ............................................................................................               3
       2.     PERSONS AUTHORIZED ...................................................................................                      4
       3.     GENERAL RULES AND INFORMATION .........................................................                                     4
       4.     VEHICLES ............................................................................................................       6
       5.     GENERAL SAFETY .............................................................................................                7
       6.     HUNTING SAFETY .............................................................................................                8
       7.     GENERAL HUNTING ..........................................................................................                  9
       8.     DEER STANDS AND DUCK BLINDS ...............................................................                                11
       9.     HUNTING CHECK STATION REQUIREMENTS .............................................                                           13
       10.    RECREATION, HUNTING AREAS, AND REFUGES .......................................                                             14
       11.    FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION ......................................................................                             15
       12.    DEER HUNTING ..................................................................................................            16
       13.    PRIMITIVE FIREARM DEER SEASON .............................................................                                18
       14.    ARCHERY HUNTING .........................................................................................                  18
       15.    WATERFOWL HUNTING ...................................................................................                      19
       16.    TURKEY HUNTING ............................................................................................                19
       17.    NIGHTTIME RACOON HUNTING ....................................................................                              20
       18.    HOG-DOG HUNTING ..........................................................................................                 20
       19.    NUISANCE ANIMAL HUNTING .......................................................................                            20
       20.    HUNTING DOGS .................................................................................................             21
       21.    FISHING ................................................................................................................   21
       22.    BOATING .............................................................................................................      23
       23.    OTHER OUTDOOR RECREATION ...................................................................                               24
       24.    GARDENS .............................................................................................................      25
       25.    PENALTIES AND SUSPENSION OF PRIVILEGES .........................................                                           26

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           28

Attachment 2—GAME AND FISH ENFORCEMENT MATRIX                                                                                            29

Attachment 3—EAST RESERVATION MAP                                                                                                        36
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                                3


Attachment 4—BARKSDALE PHYSICALLY CHALLENGED ATV USE PERMIT
             APPLICATION                                                                      37

Attachment 5—BARKSDALE PHYSICALLY CHALLENGED SPORTSMAN PERMIT
             APPLICATION                                                                      39


1. RESPONSIBILITIES
  1.1. It is the policy of BAFB to provide public access for outdoor recreational activities and
  the harvest of fish and wildlife when compatible with the military mission and natural
  resource management objectives. Natural resource managers work with the 2d Force Support
  Squadron (FSS) and other offices in the development of outdoor recreation areas. Outdoor
  recreation activities are integrated with the mission through a planning process that is
  coordinated with BAFB leadership.
  1.2. The issuance of fishing, hunting, and other consumptive use permits and administering
  of funds derived from the sale of these permits will be the responsibility of the base civil
  engineer. The commander, 2d Security Force Squadron (SFS) and the base civil engineer
  will jointly coordinate law enforcement and Civil Engineering Squadron (CES)
  responsibilities for the protection of fish, wildlife, their habitats, and related natural
  resources.
  1.3. All persons, civilian and military, will comply with the provisions of this regulation and
  applicable federal land state laws at http://www.wlf.state.la.us pertaining to the use of
  natural resources, hunting, and fishing. State hunting and fishing regulations are applicable
  on BAFB for items not specifically covered in this instruction. BAFB hunting and fishing
  regulations have precedence over state regulations.
  1.4. The right to enter BAFB or any BAFB permit may be revoked at any time by the 2d
  Bomb Wing Commander (2 BW/CC) or designated representatives, for violation of BAFB
  regulations, federal or state law, or for any reason deemed necessary or advantageous to the
  United States Air Force.
  1.5. All persons are responsible for using their personal vehicles safely, protecting fish and
  wildlife habitats, and picking up their litter before departing. Any person found littering or
  willfully damaging a natural or related resource will be subject to suspension of privileges
  and to prosecution under appropriate federal, state, or military laws. Appropriate decisions
  of disposition will be made by SFS game wardens, Natural Resources personnel, federal
  agents, or state wildlife officers after coordination with the mission support group
  commander.
  1.6. Any person engaging in outdoor activities on BAFB does so at their own risk, and
  agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the United States of America against any and all
  claims for loss, damage, or injury sustained to their person or property. Louisiana
  Recreational Use Statute La. R.S. 9:2791 applies to this instruction.
  1.7. The natural resources manager may amend this instruction with written approval of the
  asset management flight chief and base civil engineer. This item facilitates the use of
  adaptive management strategies while providing for instruction clarifications and
  improvements between revisions. Amendments will be posted at Barksdale Natural
4                                                    BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


    Resources (BNR) located at 6141 Range Road and are subject to withdrawal by the natural
    resources manager or as ordered by the 2 MSG/CC. Amendments will be incorporated into
    subsequent revisions of this instruction, if warranted.
    1.8. Contact BNR (456-3353/1963) or SFS Game Wardens (456-2551) for any questions
    regarding this instruction or to report violations of this instruction. Someone is on duty 24
    hours a day at the security forces station. Poachers can also be reported to the Louisiana
    Department of Wildlife and Fisheries at Operation Game Thief (1-800-442-2511) anytime
    day or night.
2. PERSONS AUTHORIZED
    2.1. DoD personnel and their guests may participate in hunting, fishing, and other outdoor
    recreational activities on BAFB. DoD personnel are defined as active duty, retired, and
    reserve military personnel, dependents of the aforementioned, DoD civilian employees, and
    retired BAFB DoD civilian employees with 20 or more years of federal service who possess
    a DoD retired civilian identification card. For unescorted hunting privileges, DoD personnel
    including dependents over the age of 16, must attend the Barksdale Hunter Safety Course
    once every 3 years. Guests do not have unescorted privileges.
    2.2. The 2 MSG/CC may choose to grant additional persons unescorted privileges to
    hunting, fishing, and other outdoor recreational activities on BAFB by letter of authorization.
    The letter of authorization must first be coordinated with the Natural Resources Manager
    who will forward the request through 2 SFS and will include a criminal history and weapons
    check by 2 SFS Investigations unless waived by the 2 MSG/CC.
    2.3. DoD personnel may sponsor non-DoD personnel to participate in outdoor recreational
    activities conducted within the gated areas of BAFB as delineated in these regulations. Both
    the sponsor and the guest(s) must have the required state and federal licenses in addition to
    BAFB permits when involved in hunting and fishing activities. Sponsors are responsible for
    the actions of guests. For hunting and fishing activities, DoD personnel sponsors must
    remain on the east reservation with their guests.
    2.4. A maximum of three guests per sponsor is authorized when hunting. Dependents and
    guests under 16 years of age must be escorted by and under the direct and immediate
    supervision of a responsible adult sponsor while hunting and boating. Persons who are under
    12 years of age must be accompanied by a responsible adult while engaged in any other
    outdoor recreation activity covered by this regulation.
    2.5. Dependents may not sponsor a guest for activities involving firearms or weapons.
3. GENERAL RULES AND INFORMATION
    3.1. The BAFB East Reservation map is attached to this document. The BAFB East
    Reservation map (see attachment 3) shows where outdoor recreation is authorized.
    3.2. BAFB Hunting Permits (listed in paragraph 7.7), BAFB Fishing Permits, and BAFB
    Firewood Permits are issued at the BNR (bldg 7660). BAFB Permits are not transferable,
    and fees are nonrefundable.
    3.3. Individuals, vehicles, boats, guns, ammunition, credentials, fish, game, and personal
    property may be checked and searched at any time by authorized federal, state, and military
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                                  5


  law enforcement personnel. Persons must furnish identification, licenses and permits as
  requested by authorized law enforcement and BNR personnel.
  3.4. Disturbance or interference with an individual engaged in official business or an
  authorized activity on the BAFB East Reservation is prohibited. Disturbance of the peace or
  other disorderly conduct is prohibited.
  3.5. No one may operate, conduct, or guide hunting and fishing activities on BAFB in
  exchange for any form of personal compensation.
  3.6. Littering of any form is prohibited.
  3.7. The polluting of any waters within the installation by dumping oil, chemicals, or other
  pollutants is prohibited.
  3.8. Vandalism or intentional damage to roads, gates, signs, check stations, vehicles, or other
  government property is prohibited.
  3.9. The collection, destruction, or injury of any plant or animal, except as specifically
  authorized, is prohibited. Plants, plant parts, animals and historic and cultural artifacts shall
  not be taken or collected. Searching for or removing objects of antiquity is prohibited. The
  use of metal detectors for any purpose is prohibited except for mission requirements and
  scientific research purposes approved by the base civil engineer.
  3.10. All animals are protected and may not be harassed, injured, killed, or removed from
  the installation, except as authorized by the natural resources manager, BAFB, state and
  federal hunting/fishing regulations. Neither plants or their parts nor any animals shall be
  introduced, liberated, planted, or placed on any part of the installation, except as specifically
  authorized by the natural resources manager.
  3.11. Trapping and the possession of trapping devices are prohibited except for nuisance
  animal control when authorized or required by BNR and pest management personnel.
  3.12. Taking or attempting to take fish or wildlife in an area posted as closed is prohibited.
  The installation commander has the right to open and close areas to hunting, fishing, or other
  recreational activity at any time.
  3.13. Persons may not enter upon any area designated as a bird rookery from 1 March
  through 15 June.
  3.14. From September through May, no disturbing activities including fishing, hunting, &
  bird watching, are allowed within a 330 foot buffer of any bald eagle nest. Unless otherwise
  restricted and shown on nest area signs, only minimal transient traffic through the buffer area
  is allowed.
  3.15. Spotlighting or shining from vehicles is prohibited.
  3.16. No one may spotlight or search at night for wildlife in any manner except as approved
  for raccoon hunting or otherwise approved by the natural resources manager.
  3.17. All game and fish harvested on BAFB count towards state-established personal daily
  and season limits with the exception of white-tailed deer IAW paragraph 12.
  3.18. All deer and turkey hunters regardless of age or license status must obtain state issued
  deer or turkey tags and have these in possession when hunting deer or turkey. White-tailed
6                                                    BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


    deer and turkey must be tagged with state issued tags in accordance with state law.
    Immediately upon harvesting an antlered deer or turkey, the hunter must attach a carcass tag
    to the animal before it is moved from the kill site and document the harvest on the deer tag
    license. Antlerless deer do not need to be tagged by the hunter. Louisiana issues BNR tags
    for antlerless deer which will be affixed to the carcass when the hunter checks out.
    3.19. Any person, not participating in an official tournament shoot with MWR, shall not
    shoot or attempt to shoot any 3D target located at the MWR Archery Range.
    3.20. Only persons issued natural resource keys may possess and use them. Keys are not
    transferable to other persons.
4. VEHICLES
    4.1. Motor vehicle operation must comply with BAFB and state safety and licensing
    requirements. The operation of any motor vehicle without a muffler is prohibited.
    4.2. The maximum allowable speed for any motor vehicle is 25 miles per hour on dirt or
    forest roads, unless otherwise posted.
    4.3. Vehicles must travel only on designated roads. Designated roads are defined on the
    BAFB East Reservation map as “open to the public”.
    4.4. Vehicles may not be operated on roads posted as closed to vehicles. Driving on roads
    marked with “NO POV’S BEYOND THIS POINT” or “No Vehicles Beyond this Point”
    signs is strictly prohibited. There will be absolutely no off-road driving unless the action is
    approved in writing in advance by the natural resources manager, except during the deer
    hunting season when permission may be granted verbally by on-duty BNR personnel.
    4.5. Obstruction of roads, trails, fire lanes, gates, boat landings, and government vehicles is
    prohibited. All closed gates must be kept closed. Driving or attempting to drive around
    gates, cables, or other barriers is prohibited.
    4.6. Do not park in the SFS dog kennel parking area or adjacent to Federal Aviation
    Administration (FAA) facilities or antennas.
    4.7. The use of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs and UTVs), motorized dirt bikes and other non
    street-legal, off-road vehicles is prohibited, except hunters may use ATVs to retrieve
    harvested deer or hogs, and to move deer stands or stand construction materials. During
    BAFB firearm deer days, ATVs may not be used to move stands or construction materials.
    4.8. Persons who are mobility impaired, may upon successful completion and submission of
    the BAFB Physically Challenged ATV Use Application (Attachment 4), use an ATV during
    hunting season to move through hunting areas for hunting purposes only with written
    approval and direction from the natural resources manager. There are two classes of
    Physically Challenged Hunters:
       4.8.1. Class I: Wheel Chair Bound – The disability must permanently confine the
       applicant to the use of a wheelchair. If the applicant may eventually recover enough to
       not require the use of a wheelchair, they do not qualify for this class permit. If the future
       prognosis is uncertain, the applicant does not qualify at this time.
       4.8.2. Class II: Mobility Impaired – Applicants must meet one of the following
              requirements:
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                                7


         4.8.2.1. Cannot walk 100 feet without stopping to rest.
         4.8.2.2. Cannot walk without the assistance of another person, walker, crutches,
         braces, prosthetic device, or temporary use of a wheelchair.
         4.8.2.3. Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that the person’s forced
         (respiratory) volume for one second, when measured by spirometry, is less than one
         liter, or the arterial oxygen tension is less than sixty mm/hg on room air at rest.
         4.8.2.4. Uses portable oxygen.
         4.8.2.5. Has a cardiac condition to the extent that the person’s functional limitations
         are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV according to standards set by the
         American Heart Association.
         4.8.2.6. Has a diagnosed disease or disorder, including a severe arthritic,
         neurological, or orthopedic impairment, which creates a severe mobility limitation.
         4.8.2.7. Individuals who are temporarily disabled for a minimum of one year
         duration may be issued this permit. The permit would be valid for one year only. If
         the conditions still exist after one year, the individual may reapply and be issued a
         new permit.
  4.9. Physically Challenged Hunter Permit Applications shall be sent or delivered to the
  BAFB Natural Resources Manager. Physically Challenged Hunter permit applicants with
  any violation of this instruction within the past 5 years shall not be issued ATV use permits.
  4.10. During deer firearm hunting days, persons with a Physically Challenged Hunters/ATV
  Permit may not use an ATV to hunt a stand or location more than 200 yards from road
  designated as drivable on the deer stand registration map. Except these persons may ride an
  ATV to one of the five designated handicap hunting locations.
  4.11. ATV operators must comply with BAFB safety regulations, including providing
  evidence of completion of a certified hands-on ATV Operator Course and wearing all
  required safety gear. The natural resources manager may further restrict the use of ATVs.
  Operators must minimize the impact of ATVs on soils and wildlife, and act in a responsible
  manner so as to respect and not disturb other hunters.
  4.12. Off-road driving and use of ATVs for non-emergency government business or training
  on the east reservation must be coordinated in advance with BNR to prevent damages to
  soils, plantings, sensitive or unique natural areas, and ongoing study and work projects.
  4.13. All accidents must be reported as soon as possible to security forces, 456-2551. Motor
  vehicles involved in accidents should not be moved until the investigating officer arrives,
  unless the vehicle constitutes a safety hazard.
5. GENERAL SAFETY
  5.1. It is imperative that persons using the east reservation become familiar with the BAFB
  East Reservation map available at BNR. This map identifies recreation areas, hunting areas,
  open roads, and areas that are off limits. The east reservation is divided into four hunting or
  recreation areas: A, B, C, and D as noted on the map.
8                                                       BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


    5.2. During managed hunts all other recreational activities in the posted hunting areas are
    prohibited, except for waterfowl hunting on the upper 2/3 of Flag Lake, fishing on Flag Lake
    (when waterfowl season is closed), fishing on the lower 1/3 of Flag Lake (when waterfowl
    season is open), fishing on Austin Lake, fishing on Harmon Lake and normal use of Cullen
    Park and Clear Lake Park. Anyone in an area open to firearm deer hunting must wear an
    outer upper garment and a cap or hat showing a total of at least 400 square inches of “hunter
    orange”.
    5.3. During the firearm deer seasons and the turkey season large signs will be posted along
    Range Road noting areas closed to other recreational activities.
    5.4. Individuals will not be permitted to remain in recreation areas while intoxicated.
    Possession of open alcoholic beverage containers in a vehicle, excluding watercraft, is
    prohibited. Alcoholic beverage and illegal drug use are strictly prohibited during hunting
    activities or when involved with firearm activities.
    5.5. Feeding, baiting, attracting, or harassing of alligators is prohibited.
    5.6. Swimming, snorkeling, diving, skiing, use of towable devices and jet skis are prohibited
    in all lakes and waterways on BAFB.
    5.7. Oil and gas production equipment and facilities (well-heads, pumping stations, storage
    facilities, etc.) are restricted areas.
    5.8. Target shooting with rifles and shotguns is prohibited except at established BAFB
    ranges.
    5.9. During periods of high fire danger, it may be necessary to restrict the use of fire and
    mission-related pyrotechnics, and persons must coordinate any proposed use with the natural
    resources manager. No burning will be permitted during periods of extreme fire danger.
    During such periods, warning signs will be posted at BNR. Use of fireworks by the public is
    prohibited at all times.
    5.10. Ordnance items such as shells, bombs, rockets, flares, or other suspicious objects found
    on the reservation should not be moved or handled in any manner. The location of all such
    items should be marked and reported to SFS (456-2551), explosive ordnance disposal (EOD)
    (456-3765) or BNR (456-3353).
    5.11. Disorderly conduct is prohibited.
6. HUNTING SAFETY
    6.1. All persons born on or after September 1, 1969, who are 16 years or older, must have on
    their person proof of satisfactorily completing a comprehensive State Hunter Safety course
    approved by Louisiana Dept. of Wildlife and Fisheries while hunting on Barksdale.
    6.2. DoD personnel, including dependents with unescorted hunting privileges, must attend
    the BAFB Hunter Safety Course. Upon successfully completing the hunter safety course,
    individuals will be given a BAFB Hunter Safety Card that is valid for 3 years. The BAFB
    Hunter Safety Card must be carried during all hunting activities. Any person who purchases
    a 1-day or 3-day permit may hunt as a guest when accompanied by a DoD personnel sponsor
    without being required to take the BAFB Hunter Safety Course. Sponsors are responsible for
    ensuring their guests are briefed on required safety practices.
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                               9


  6.3. Persons under the age of 16 may not be in possession of a firearm unless they are under
  the direct and immediate supervision of an adult 18 years of age or older.
  6.4. All deer hunters, including archers, must wear an outer upper garment and a cap or hat
  showing a total of at least 400 square inches of “hunter orange” at all times while hunting
  during the BAFB modern and primitive firearm deer seasons.
  6.5. The possession of a loaded weapon in a vehicle is prohibited. Weapons will not be
  discharged from any vehicle. Loaded weapons will not be transported in or on any motorized
  vehicle. A firearm will be considered loaded when live ammunition is in the chamber,
  magazine, cylinder, or clip attached to firearm. A muzzleloader that is capped or primed is
  considered loaded.
  6.6. Firearms will not be discharged from along, or across any road open to vehicular access
  or within 100 feet of the centerline of any road open to vehicular access.
7. GENERAL HUNTING
  7.1. Hunting on BAFB must be in accordance with federal and state hunting laws and the
  additional controls and restrictions prescribed in this instruction. Hunting in an unsafe
  manner is prohibited.
  7.2. Persons engaged in hunting on BAFB must have in their possession all Louisiana and
  federal licenses, permits, and stamps required by those agencies, in addition to required base
  permits. Persons must furnish identification, licenses and permits as requested by BNR and
  law enforcement personnel.
  7.3. For purposes of this instruction, hunting is to pursue, take, possess, or cause to be
  transported by any other person any wild bird or quadruped.
  7.4. Persons 16 years of age and older must obtain the BAFB Basic Season Permit or a 1/3-
  Day Permit and any specialized endorsement(s) required prior to hunting.
  7.5. Disabled persons wishing to obtain the Basic Season Hunting/Fishing Permit at no cost
  shall complete and submit the BAFB Physically Challenged Sportsman Permit Application
  (Attachment 5). The completed application shall be delivered to the Natural Resource
  Manager. One of the following criteria shall be met in order for the person to receive the
  permit at no cost:
     7.5.1. Legally Blind – meaning that the individual has a visual acuity of 20/200 or less in
            the better eye with correcting lenses.
     7.5.2. Paraplegic
     7.5.3. Amputee of leg above the ankle or limb above the wrist.
     7.5.4. Artificial limbs or permanent braces for mobility as a result of a permanent and
            total disability.
     7.5.5. Developmentally disabled persons to include, but not limited to, mental
     retardation, cerebral palsy, down syndrome, spina bifida, and multiple sclerosis.
  7.6. BAFB Hunting Permits and Endorsements are issued annually and are valid for the
  specified hunting season for which the permit is issued IAW BAFB regulations and state
  laws.
10                                                 BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


  7.7. BAFB Hunting Permits and Endorsements
     7.7.1. Basic Season Permit $40
     7.7.2. Rifle Deer Endorsement $5
     7.7.3. Primitive Firearm Deer Endorsement $5
     7.7.4. Archery Deer Endorsement $5
     7.7.5. Waterfowl Endorsement $5
     7.7.6. Hog-Dog Endorsement $5
     7.7.7. Turkey Endorsement $5
     7.7.8. Raccoon (night hunts) Endorsement $5
     7.7.9. Competition Raccoon Hunting Cast (night hunts) Endorsement $10
     7.7.10. 1-Day Permit (Big Game)               $10
     7.7.11. 3-Day Permit (Small Game)             $10
     7.7.12. Deer Stand Registration               $15
     7.7.13. Duck Blind Registration               $15
  7.8. Season dates are designated by BNR and will be published annually prior to hunting
  season. The BAFB firearm seasons referred to herein include the modern and primitive
  firearm deer seasons and the spring turkey season. It is the responsibility of the hunter to
  know season dates and legal hunting hours.
  7.9. BAFB is a closed area for spring squirrel hunts.
  7.10. Hunting game over bait, or the placing of bait or any means of attracting wildlife is
  prohibited. The placement of non-edible scents IAW paragraph 7.13 is permitted. Bait is
  defined as corn, wheat, or other feed or edible substance used to constitute a lure or
  enticement, excluding food plots. No person shall possess or distribute any grain or other
  food for wildlife in any area open or closed to hunting. No person shall take or attempt to
  take wildlife on any land or water where grain or other food has been deposited. The
  placement of salt blocks or mineral blocks is prohibited. The placement of granular salt and
  the planting of food plots when accomplished in accordance with paragraphs 7.11 and 7.12
  are not considered baiting.
  7.11. Granular white field salt or red mineral salt may be placed at registered stand sites
  from 1 February through 31 July with the advance written approval of the BAFB Wildlife
  Biologist.
  7.12. The planting of wildlife food plots or strips at registered stand sites is allowed only
  with the advance written approval of the BAFB Wildlife Biologist. Approval must be
  requested and received annually.
  7.13. The use of non-edible scents is approved given they meet one of the following criteria:
  urine based scent such as fox, raccoon, skunk, or deer urine; natural or synthetic scents
  associated with the breeding cycle of deer such as tarsal scents or estrous doe scents; any
  scent that mimics a natural smell of the forest, i.e. cedar, pine, acorn, or earth scents.
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                                11


  7.14. The possession of firearms in the archery-only hunting areas is prohibited, except for
  transient traffic to or from firearm hunting areas. Firearms may not be discharged in archery-
  only hunting areas.
  7.15. Hunting or pursuing deer with dogs is prohibited on BAFB, except for dogs used to
  track wounded deer. All dogs used for deer tracking must be leashed at all times.
  7.16. The transportation of live wild game is prohibited..
  7.17. Wild hogs may be taken during any open small or big game hunting season using a
  weapon approved for that season. There are no daily or season limits for hogs. No night
  time hog hunting allowed. The number and sex of all harvested hogs must be reported (on or
  before the next business day) to BNR or SFS Game Warden.
  7.18. Bobcats may only be harvested during the BAFB deer season. All taken bobcats must
  be reported to BNR or SFS game warden.
  7.19. During Force Protection Conditions CHARLIE and DELTA, NO HUNTING is
  allowed.
  7.20. No one may engage in any act that is purposefully designed to disturb other hunters or
  game being pursued by other hunters.
8. DEER STANDS AND DUCK BLINDS
  8.1. Deer stand and duck blind registrations begin the first duty day in September. Any
  person registering a deer stand or placing a temporary deer stand must first purchase a
  current BAFB basic season hunting permit. The construction or placing of deer stands and
  duck blinds requires advance approval from the natural resources manager. With the
  exception of archery deer stands (reference paragraph 8.8), no stand or blind may be placed
  until the location is registered. The previous year’s registered duck blinds and deer stands
  may be reregistered from the first duty day through the ninth duty day in September. New
  stands and blinds may not be registered until the 10th duty day in September. The last day
  for deer stand and duck blind registration is 15 November. No registered stand or blind
  location may be moved after 15 November. A physical structure, stand, or blind may be
  moved between registered stand or blind locations during non-firearm days. Only portable
  stands or blinds, that are hand transportable by a single hunter, may be moved on a firearm
  hunt day. A portable stand not placed at a registered stand location must be removed at the
  end of each hunting day. The natural resources manager may deny a stand location or move
  based on safety or other reasons.
  8.2. For purposes of this instruction, deer stand and duck blind registration provides the
  registrant or dependents and guests of the registrant the first right to hunt a specific area. A
  hunting guest is not authorized stand registration or unescorted hunting privileges and must
  be accompanied by a DoD personnel sponsor. While most people place a physical structure
  at the registered hunting location, the placement of a permanent physical structure, a stand, or
  blind, at the registered location is not required. Stand locations or blinds not being used on a
  given day by the registrant, or their guests or dependents, are available to other hunters on a
  first-come, first-serve basis. A person who hunts from another person’s registered stand,
  blind, or location must immediately leave the registered area when asked to do so by the
  registrant or dependent or guest of the registrant.
12                                                  BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


  8.3. Hunters who have registered deer stand locations may lock only one deer stand. This
  stand will be designated as the registrants “A” stand. All other deer stands may not be
  locked. This does not grant the registrant sole rights to that area. Other hunters may still
  hunt the location in accordance with the first-come first-serve policy (Para. 8.2).
  8.4. Waterfowl blinds will not be locked
  8.5. Falsely claiming rights to hunt a given stand or blind is prohibited.
  8.6. Any person, stand owner or not, that hunts in a stand or blind and leaves trash or litter
  inside or adjacent to the stand is subject to citation.
  8.7. No person may, without the consent of the registrant, damage or move a registered deer
  stand or duck blind, except as noted in paragraph 8.17.
  8.8. Stands or blinds may be registered by the following, unless otherwise restricted; DoD
  personnel stationed or residing within 100 miles of BAFB, or BAFB deployed personnel.
  8.9. Guests may not register stands or blinds. Persons under 16 years of age may not register
  stands or blinds. Dependents may not register duck blinds. A maximum of three deer stands
  may be registered in any one person’s name and one deer stand in any one dependent’s name.
  Duck blinds are allowed only on Moon Lake and the northernmost 2/3 of Flag Lake. A duck
  hunter may register one blind in Flag Lake and one blind in Moon Lake.
  8.10. Persons who have stands or blinds registered for the immediate preceding season have
  nine duty days to reregister their stands or blinds. Stands and blinds reregistered during the
  first nine duty days may not be moved from the location they were registered the preceding
  year until new stand or blind registration begins. Beginning the 10th duty day, any stand or
  blind location not reregistered becomes open to others on a first-come, first-serve basis. No
  stands or blinds may be registered on federal holidays or on weekends, except during the
  firearm deer season.
  8.11. Registered hunting locations are not transferable.
  8.12. All firearm deer stands must be located at least 200 yards from all other stands
  including other stands registered in the same person’s name, and all duck blinds must be
  located at least 150 yards from all other blinds.
  8.13. All registered stands or blinds must have a sign displaying stand or blind number,
  owner’s name, phone number, and current hunt year. If no stand will be placed at the
  registered location, the stand registration sign must be as conspicuous as possible and be
  visible to a distance of at least 50 yards. Additionally, stand and blind signs must be
  designed to remain visible and with legible writing for at least one year from registration
  date. Deer stands and duck blinds must have a current tag issued by natural resources at time
  of registration, which identifies that location as being a registered hunting stand or blind for
  the current season. The stand or blind must be marked within 48 hours after registration.
  Stands or blinds which do not have an identifying marker and tag placed at their location
  within the 48-hour time limit will be considered as unregistered and available to other
  registrants. All archery stands must have a marker showing “BOW HUNTER,” and the
  owner’s name and phone number. Archery stands may be placed beginning 1 September and
  must be removed by 15 February. Any archery stand located in an area open to firearm
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                                  13


  hunting, which is not a registered stand, must be removed 24 hours prior to any firearm deer
  season.
  8.14. Damage to or removal of trees larger than 2-inch diameter at breast height or
  vegetation removal in areas planted by BNR in forest regeneration projects or BAFB food
  plots for the purpose of constructing stands or shooting lanes is prohibited without prior
  written approval from BNR. Driving nails, spikes, screws, bolts, or other metal objects into
  trees or the hunting from a tree where a metal object has been driven is prohibited. Portable
  hunting stands are allowed.
  8.15. Registrants are responsible for protecting their stands from prescribed fire and wildfire
  by raking forest fuels away from flammable structures.
  8.16. Duck blinds will be of the type that blend in with the surrounding environment and do
  not distract from the overall appearance of the area.
  8.17. The government is not responsible for loss or damage to stands or blinds. Their
  disposition is the sole responsibility of the owner or registrant. Any stand or blind not
  capable of being repaired to a safe, usable condition must be removed by the owner or
  registrant of that stand or blind. Any stand or blind that is not registered must be removed by
  the most recent owner or registrant in accordance with this instruction. Any structure that is
  deemed unsafe or impairs base operations and any structure that is not properly registered
  may be removed or destroyed by natural resources or 2 SFS Game Wardens.
9. HUNTING CHECK STATION REQUIREMENTS
  9.1. During the BAFB firearm deer and turkey hunting seasons, all hunters including guests,
  archers, and those under 16 years of age, must check in upon beginning a hunt, and checkout
  upon completion of a hunt at the check station located at BNR. Sponsors and their guests
  must check-in and checkout together. Check-in requires a hunter to turn in their BAFB
  Hunting Permit in exchange for a numbered “check-in” tag. Persons under 16 must provide
  their name and telephone number and also receive a check-in tag. Prior to moving to another
  hunting area, hunters must first checkout and then check-in to the other area. Prior to leaving
  the east reservation for any reason, hunters must checkout at the check station.
  9.2. The check-in tag must be displayed in a visible manner on the dash of the hunter’s
  vehicle. Upon checking out at the end of a hunt, the hunter exchanges the check-in tag for
  their BAFB Hunting Permit.
  9.3. Hunter check-in hours will be posted at BNR at the start of the season. Hunter check-in
  will be permitted only during the posted check-in hours. Certain early morning and early
  evening hours will be designated as quiet hours and posted at the check station. During quiet
  hours, hunters may not check-in or move into the hunting areas, and all hunters must keep
  movement to a minimum. Each hunter is to act in a responsible manner so as not to disturb
  other hunters in the field.
  9.4. Hunting area assignments for the firearm deer and turkey hunting seasons are based on
  the hunter’s choice, and first-come, first-serve until the safe quota is reached for a given area.
  Each hunter is assigned to a specific hunting area and must hunt only in that area.
  9.5. After check-in, hunters must proceed to their assigned area and selected hunting
  location in an efficient and timely manner. Checked in hunters are prohibited from loitering
14                                                 BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


  in east reservation housing or hunting areas, or engaging in non-hunting activities while in a
  hunting area. Checked in hunters are prohibited from loitering anywhere on the east
  reservation during established quiet hours. Hunters must proceed without delay to and from
  hunting areas during quiet hours. Checked in hunters may not leave the east reservation.
  9.6. All firearm deer hunters must report or checkout at the check station no later than 1 hour
  and 15 minutes after official sunset. All turkey hunters must checkout at the check station by
  1230. Any hunter who expects to check out late must report reason for delay to the check
  station supervisor. Anyone checking out late without giving BNR notice is subject to a
  suspension of privileges.
  9.7. Hunters must proceed directly to the check station following the safe retrieval of any
  taken game. Hunters harvesting game during quiet hours must wait until quiet hours have
  ended prior to removing game from the field if game removal will interfere with other
  hunters. All deer, turkeys, bobcats, and hogs must be checked in by BNR or SFS Game
  Warden. When required, harvested game will be tagged prior to removal from the Check
  Station.
  9.8. Hunters are not required to check-in during the archery only deer-hunting season.
  9.9. Deer harvested may not be skinned nor have any external body parts removed, including
  but not limited to feet, legs, tail, head, or ears before being checked in. Field-dressing is
  allowed.
  9.10. Age and antler data will be collected from all deer harvested on Barksdale AFB. Age
  information using jawbones will be collected either by physically removing the jawbone or
  cutting the cheek and observing in place.
10. RECREATION, HUNTING AREAS, AND REFUGES
  10.1. The BAFB East Reservation map is intended only as a general guide to areas where
  outdoor recreation is authorized. Hunting is not allowed in the areas designated as no
  hunting areas on the map. These areas include, but are not limited to, areas adjacent to east
  reservation housing and the no hunting areas adjacent to the Clear Lake Park, Cullen Park,
  EOD area, FamCamp area, portions of Flag Lake, Harmon Lake, flight line fence, warrior
  training center, and the Munitions storage area (MSA).
  10.2. No unauthorized person may enter any EOD range without the expressed written
  consent of the installation commander. The EOD range limits are marked with signs
  “Danger - Explosive Ordnance Range - Keep Out.”
  10.3. During the modern firearm deer season, hunting is allowed in areas “A,” “B,” “C” and
  “D,” as shown on the BAFB East Reservation map unless otherwise restricted.
  10.4. During the modern firearm deer hunting season, all other recreational activities on the
  undeveloped areas of the east reservation are prohibited, except for waterfowl hunting on the
  upper 2/3 of Flag Lake, fishing on the lower 1/3 of Flag Lake, fishing on Austin Lake, use of
  Harmon Lake Recreation Area (to include fishing, camping and hiking on designated trail
  within the recreational area only, and normal use of Cullen Park and Clear Lake Park.
  Fishing on the upper 2/3 of Flag Lake is permitted while a firearm deer hunt is in progress,
  provided the waterfowl season is closed.
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                               15


  10.5. Area(s) open for turkey hunting during the BAFB turkey hunting season will be posted
  at BNR.
  10.6. Area(s) open for deer hunting during the BAFB primitive firearm season will be posted
  at BNR.
  10.7. Entry into any area marked as a “Restricted Area” or “Closed Area” is prohibited.
  10.8. During the waterfowl season all hunting except firearm deer hunting is prohibited
  within Flat River Waterfowl Refuge (old receiver site west of Moon Lake Road) and Red
  Chute Waterfowl Refuge located southwest of Flag Lake. The boundaries of these waterfowl
  refuges are clearly identified by orange painted bands on trees and by “no hunting” signs.
  No hunting is permitted in the Flag Lake Waterfowl Refuge located on the southernmost 1/3
  of Flag Lake.
  10.9. During the waterfowl season, no one may enter upon waterfowl refuge areas except as
  approved by this instruction or otherwise authorized by the natural resources manager.
  10.10. The possession of firearms in the archery-only hunting areas is prohibited, except for
  transient traffic into firearm hunting areas. Firearms may not be discharged in archery only
  hunting areas.
  10.11. In the case of a special permit alligator hunt, open hunting areas and season dates will
  be designated and posted by the natural resources manager.
  10.12. Hunting areas west of Flat River are open to all game and waterfowl hunting. A map
  showing the open hunting areas west of Flat River is posted at BNR. The hunting area
  boundaries are marked in the forest as painted lines on trees along the boundary. No hunting
  is permitted within the MSA explosive safety clear zones. During firearm seasons, no
  hunting is allowed within 100 yards of the flight line fence. During archery season, no
  hunting is allowed within 25 yards of the flight line fence.
11. FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
  11.1. The possession and use of handguns while hunting on BAFB are prohibited.
  11.2. Full-metal jacketed bullets and military type ammunition is prohibited for all hunting.
  11.3. Shotguns larger than 10 gauge or capable of holding more than three shells are
  prohibited. Plugs used in shotguns must be incapable of being removed without disassembly.
  11.4. Use of lead bird shot is prohibited on the Flat River Waterfowl Refuge.
  11.5. The following firearms are authorized for deer hunting during the modern firearm
  seasons:
     11.5.1. Breech-loading rifles that utilize smokeless type powder or self-contained
             cartridges of .243 caliber and larger, firing bullets having a minimum weight of
     100 grains and equipped with a telescopic sight which provides a minimum of 2-1/2
     power magnification.
     11.5.2. Shotguns firing rifled-slugs; the use or possession of buckshot is prohibited.
16                                                  BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


     11.5.3. Approved primitive firearms in accordance with state regulations. However,
     primitive rifles used during modern firearm season must be equipped with a telescopic
     sight which provides a minimum of 2-1/2 power magnification.
  11.6. Small game includes resident game animals and game birds (except turkey) as well as
  migratory waterfowl species. The following firearms are authorized for small game hunting:
     11.6.1. Shotguns firing shot pellets having a diameter no larger than #2 lead or BB steel
     shot.
     11.6.2. Rifles utilizing .22 caliber or smaller rimfire cartridges.
  11.7. Shotguns and archery equipment only may be used for turkey hunts.               Shotgun
  ammunition must be no larger than #2 lead or BB steel shot.
  11.8. Possession of firearms and archery equipment on BAFB East Reservation is prohibited
  except for:
     11.8.1. Safe storage in accordance with BAFB security regulations.
     11.8.2. Legal hunting and movement to and from the open hunting areas.
     11.8.3. Archery practice on the established archery range east of Flag Lake.
     11.8.4. Trap and skeet shooting at the BAFB Trap and Skeet Range.
     11.8.5. Safe storage at approved campsites during the hunting season.
     11.8.6. BNR and pest management personnel may carry firearms including a .22 caliber
     handgun for animal control. The natural resource manager may authorize others to carry
     firearms for nuisance animal control and bird aircraft strike hazard concerns. The natural
     resource manager or BAFB Wildlife Biologist will coordinate use of firearms for animal
     control on developed areas of Barksdale with security forces.
     11.8.7. Activities associated with the military mission and official business of 2d SFS
     and other law enforcement officers.
12. DEER HUNTING
  12.1. All persons hunting deer regardless of the method shall obtain one of the specialized
  BAFB Deer Endorsement prior to deer hunting on base. Hunters under 16 years of age are
  exempted from this requirement.
  12.2. Season dates, harvest limits, and hunting areas are designated by the BNR. Bucks and
  does may be taken on Barksdale, unless otherwise restricted. The annual harvest limits
  during the combined BAFB firearm and archery seasons are subject to change. Restrictions
  and harvest limits will be posted at BNR. It is prohibited to exceed BAFB harvest limits.
  12.3. Deer hunting during the BAFB firearm deer season will be by still-hunting methods
  only. Still-hunting is defined as stalking or stationary stand hunting without the use of dogs.
  12.4. Driving of deer is prohibited. Driving is defined as the use of systematic vocal or
  mechanical noise or organized movement of person(s) to elicit or encourage deer movement
  towards other hunters.
  12.5. Firearm deer hunters must not hunt within 200 yards of other individuals or groups of
  hunters.
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                                17


  12.6. The following rules are specific to the BAFB Quality Deer Management Program
  (QDM) and apply to all deer hunters regardless of method of hunting (archery, primitive
  firearm and modern firearm). Failure to follow these regulations will result in the suspension
  of deer hunting privileges only, except as listed otherwise. Suspensions will be measured in
  rifle days. Suspensions shall include all archery and primitive firearm hunt days until the end
  of the suspension. The following rules supersede any previous guidance.
  12.7. A rifle day is defined as a day designated by BNR as open for rifle hunting for deer. A
  hunter suspended for 10 rifle days may not hunt deer on Barksdale until 10 rifle days have
  passed, not including the day of the violation. (Example, if hunter harvests an illegal buck on
  the first rifle day. The hunter would be suspended from all deer hunting until the 12th rifle
  day.) If a hunter harvests an illegal buck near the end of the season, the suspension will carry
  over until the next season.
  12.8. A legal antlered buck must have at least four points on one side of the antlers
  (minimum standard). A point is defined as a minimum of 1 inch in length measured from the
  tip of the point to the intersection of the main beam or another tine. A hunter harvesting a
  buck that has antlers below the minimum standard will be suspended 10 rifle days on the first
  offense. If a second offense occurs within 1 year of the date of the first offense, the hunter
  will then be suspended for 1 calendar year from the date of second offense. There is one
  exception to the above; a hunter that mistakenly harvests a spike buck with both antlers
  measuring 4 inches or less in length shall not be suspended for a QDM violation.
  12.9. BAFB QDM policy defines button bucks as antlerless deer. Hunters may harvest a
  daily limit of one (1) antlered and two (2) anterless deer. Of the two antlerless deer, only one
  (1) can be a button buck. The season limit on BAFB is six deer of which no more than two
  may be bucks. Button bucks will count toward your season limit of two bucks.. Limits are
  subject to change by BNR manager as required for management purposes. Any limit change
  will be posted at BNR. Antlered deer harvested on Barksdale count towards the legal state
  limit of deer.
  12.10. A hunter shall not harvest more than two button bucks in a season. If a hunter
  harvests a button buck after having already harvested their limit of two button bucks, the
  hunter may be suspended for up to 10 rifle days. If a hunter harvests more than one (1)
  button buck in the same day, the hunter will be suspended for 5 rifle days for the first
  offense.
  12.11. Both white-tailed deer and turkey must be tagged with state issued tags in accordance
  with state law. All deer and turkey hunters regardless of age or license status must obtain
  state issued deer or turkey tags and have these in possession when hunting deer or turkey.
  Immediately upon harvesting an antlered deer or turkey, the hunter must attach a carcass tag
  to the animal before it is moved from the kill site. Important note: Antlerless deer do not
  need to be tagged by the hunter. Louisiana issues BNR tags for these deer which will be
  affixed to the carcass when the deer hunter checks out.
  12.12. All harvested deer are required to be checked in at the BNR check station upon
  completion of the hunt. A hunter who knowingly fails to check in a harvested deer in order
  to avoid penalties associated with management violations will be suspended from all east
  reservation privileges for a minimum of 3 years. Hunters are required to report QDM
  violations to BNR or 2 SFS Game Wardens. A hunter who witnesses and fails to report a
18                                                BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


  violation by another hunter may be subject to the same penalty as the person who commits
  the violation.
  12.13. BNR will administer suspensions of deer hunting privileges related to the QDM
  program in accordance with this instruction, as ordered by the 2 MSG/CC.
  12.14. In the case of dispute regarding ownership of game, a committee designated by the
  check station supervisor will determine ownership. The findings of this committee will be
  final.
13. PRIMITIVE FIREARM DEER SEASON
  13.1. Primitive firearm hunters must obtain the BAFB Primitive Firearm Deer Endorsement
  prior to primitive firearm hunting on base. Hunters under 16 years of age are exempted from
  this requirement.
  13.2. Area(s) open for deer hunting during the BAFB primitive firearm season will be posted
  at BNR.
  13.3. Approved primitive firearms in accordance with state regulations fitted with iron
  sights, non-magnifying, or magnifying scopes may be used during the primitive firearm deer
  season.
  13.4. Additional instructions regarding check-in and checkout procedures not covered in this
  regulation will be posted at BNR.
14. ARCHERY HUNTING
  14.1. Archery hunters must obtain the BAFB Archery Hunting Endorsement prior to archery
  hunting on base. Hunters under 16 years of age are exempted from this requirement.
  14.2. The use of bows and crossbows is permitted in accordance with state hunting
  regulations.
  14.3. Legal small game may be taken with a bow or crossbow.
  14.4. Archery hunting is permitted during the state archery deer season, unless otherwise
  restricted.
  14.5. Hunters are not required to check in during the archery only deer-hunting season.
  However, deer taken must be carried immediately to BNR for collection of harvest data.
  After normal duty hours, report harvest to SFS Game Warden; if unable to contact game
  warden, hunter must contact the BNR on the next duty day and report harvest data. For deer
  harvests, the hunter must transport head including jawbone and antlers (if present) to BNR
  for verification on the next duty day. An archery hunter planning to mount deer head shall
  contact BNR on the next duty day and schedule a time for data collection and harvest
  verification. If the jawbone and/or antlers needed for deer harvest data collection have not
  been provided to BNR by March 1st of the year following the deer harvest, the hunter will be
  suspended for 10 rifle days, including primitive firearm and archery seasons.
  14.6. During BAFB firearm deer seasons, archers are required to check-in and out of the
  check station and must follow the same safety rules as firearm hunters.
  14.7. Barksdale has five designated archery-only (AO) hunting areas. AO-1 (49 acres) is
  located just north of Capehart Housing. AO-2 (134 acres) is located south of the Heritage
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                               19


  Heights housing area near Austin Pond. AO-3 (270 acres) is southwest of Heritage Heights
  housing and adjacent to Red Chute Bayou. AO-4 (26 acres) is located west of Flat River,
  from the FAA radar facility south to Air Launch Cruise Missile Bridge. The road and
  parking lot for the FAA station may not be used by hunters to enter this area. AO-5 (26
  acres) is located west of Flat River, along Coopers Bayou; east of the fuels off-load facility.
  Additional areas are open west of Flat River to archery-only along the flight line fence, MSA
  explosive buffer, kennel area, and contractor staging areas. Firearms may not be discharged
  in the AOs. The possession of firearms in the archery only hunting areas is prohibited, other
  than transient traffic into firearm hunting areas. Hunters may not use housing areas for
  parking or as thoroughfares to designated archery-only hunting areas. .
15. WATERFOWL HUNTING
  15.1. Waterfowl hunters must obtain the BAFB Waterfowl Endorsement prior to waterfowl
  hunting on base. Hunters under 16 years of age are exempted from this requirement.
  15.2. Barksdale waterfowl season dates coincide with those listed for the West Waterfowl
  Hunting Zone listed in Louisiana Migratory Game Bird Hunting Regulations.
  15.3. Waterfowl hunting on BAFB closes at 2:00 p.m. each day. No person shall harvest or
  attempt to harvest any waterfowl past this time.
  15.4. Waterfowl hunting from a blind, boat or while wading is permitted. Waterfowl hunters
  must not hunt within 150 yards of other individuals or groups of hunters. Waterfowl hunting
  on Flag Lake is restricted to the northernmost 2/3 of the lake. The north boundary of the
  Flag Lake Refuge is designated on the BAFB East Reservation map and is marked by orange
  and white buoys that cross Flag Lake. No waterfowl hunting is allowed within 50 yards of
  the north boundary of the Flag Lake Waterfowl Refuge.
  15.5. No person shall take waterfowl from or by means of any motorboat unless the motor
  has been completely shut off and its progress there from has ceased.
  15.6. During the waterfowl season, no person may discharge a firearm within 100 feet of any
  waterfowl refuge except as referenced in paragraph 10.8.
  15.7. Ammunition in waterfowl hunter’s personal possession or boat is limited to steel shot
  or other approved nontoxic shot. It is unlawful to harvest waterfowl with lead shot.
  15.8. Hunters must report any information received from the fish and wildlife service or
  state agency on harvested waterfowl leg bands to BNR within 72 hours of receipt.
16. TURKEY HUNTING
  16.1. Turkey hunters and callers must obtain the BAFB Turkey Endorsement prior to turkey
  hunting on base. Hunters under 16 years of age are exempted from this requirement.
  16.2. Gobblers only may be taken.
  16.3. DoD personnel, with the exception of dependents, may each sponsor one guest at a
  time to hunt. Guests must remain within 50 yards of their sponsor while turkey hunting. A
  guest may carry a firearm and harvest birds.
20                                                 BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


  16.4. All hunters and callers much check in and out at BAFB Hunter Check Station for each
  hunt and to change areas. Persons who harvest a turkey must immediately proceed to the
  check station.
17. NIGHTTIME RACOON HUNTING
  17.1. The BAFB Basic Hunting Permit and the BAFB Raccoon Hunting Endorsement must
  be obtained and in possession of each member of a raccoon hunting party, with the exception
  of hunters under 16 years of age. Persons with unescorted hunting privileges must attend the
  BAFB Hunter Safety Course. For persons wishing to hunt raccoons for short periods of time,
  a Barksdale 3-day small game permit may be purchased by sponsors or guests.
  17.2. Raccoon hunting is allowed from 1 August through 15 March only. Raccoon hunting
  is legal only during the hours of darkness using only one .22 caliber rimfire rifle per hunting
  party. Each person in the hunting party must complete a daily entry in the raccoon hunting
  log, located at the front of BNR, when hunting.
  17.3. There is Competition Raccoon Hunt Cast Endorsement available for competitive
  raccoon hound hunts. Prior to any competitive hunt, the hunting club must provide the
  BAFB Wildlife Biologist a letter signed by the club’s president that provides the schedule of
  hunts.
  17.4. Persons with rights to hunt unescorted on base may host a hunting cast on Barksdale
  for competition raccoon hunts. The maximum number of guests allowed is 5 per sponsor per
  night. No firearms are allowed during competitive hunts; the raccoon is not taken. Sponsors
  must have a valid BAFB Basic Hunting Permit along with the Competition Raccoon Hunt
  Cast Endorsement in their possession while hosting the cast on base.
18. HOG-DOG HUNTING
  18.1. The BAFB Basic Hunting Permit along with the BAFB Hog-Dog Hunting
  Endorsement is required to Hog-Dog Hunt on BAFB. These permits are required for
  everyone in a hunting party.
  18.2. Hog-Dog hunting is allowed from 1 February through 15 March only. Hog-Dog
  hunting is legal only from ½ hour before sunrise to ½ hour past sunset.
  18.3. No person in the Hog-Dog hunting party may possess or attempt to use any firearm or
  archery equipment.
  18.4. All Hog-Dog owners need to annually register their dogs with BNR prior to hunting.
  18.5. All persons in a hunting party must check in prior to hunting. Each person in the
  hunting party must complete a daily entry in the Hog-Dog hunting log, located at the front of
  BNR, when hunting.
  18.6. On BAFB, feral hogs may not be transported live under any circumstances.
19. NUISANCE ANIMAL HUNTING
  19.1. Nuisance animals are defined as coyotes, armadillos, crows, cowbirds, blackbirds, and
  grackles. These animals are legal to shoot during open hunting seasons by anyone with a
  valid state hunting license and a valid Barksdale Hunting Permit under the provisions stated
  below. When hunting seasons are closed, a no-cost nuisance animal permit (NAP) must be
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                               21


  acquired at BNR. NAPs are valid for a period of time not to exceed 3 months and are only
  issued for the purposes of shooting crows or blackbirds, which are depredating or about to
  depredate upon crops in the garden areas or wildlife food plots, and coyote hunting.
  Nuisance animal hunting is allowed only during legal daylight shooting hours.
  19.2. The season for blackbirds and crows shall be 1 September - 1 January with no limit.
  19.3. Harvesting of nuisance animals during open game animal hunting seasons is
  permissible only with a harvest method approved for taking game during that particular
  hunting season.
  19.4. A nuisance animal log will be maintained at the front entrance of BNR. When game
  animal hunting seasons are closed, all persons planning on hunting coyotes, crows, or
  blackbirds under a NAP must log-in upon entering the east reservation with a firearm and
  log-out upon completion of hunting activities.
  19.5. Bobcats are not considered nuisance animals and can only be harvested during the
  BAFB deer season.
20. HUNTING DOGS
  20.1. Hunting dogs may be trained under proper supervision and in accordance with
  Louisiana game laws, except for the period 1 February to 31 July when only leashed dogs are
  allowed on the undeveloped forest areas.
  20.2. Any hunter utilizing hunting dogs during an open hunting season in the months of
  February and March must register their dogs with the Natural Resources Office prior to
  hunting.
  20.3. Any hunting that utilizes dogs (except duck hunting) is not allowed 24 hours prior to a
  firearm deer hunt.
  20.4. Free ranging and unattended dogs are not permitted on the undeveloped forest areas of
  the base at anytime and will be destroyed as predators.
  20.5. In all cases, hunters are responsible for all actions of their dogs. Dogs must wear a
  collar bearing the name and address of the owner. Also, dogs must have a current rabies
  vaccination and have the rabies vaccination tag attached to their collar. Dogs may not be left
  unattended in vehicles.
  20.6. All hunters who have lost dogs must report this information to BNR or 2 SFS Game
  Wardens before leaving the installation. Hunters should make every effort possible to locate
  lost dogs before leaving the installation.
21. FISHING
  21.1. Fishing on BAFB must be in accordance with federal and state fishing laws and the
  additional controls and restrictions prescribed in this instruction.
  21.2. All persons 16 years of age and older must obtain a BAFB Fishing Permit in addition
  to required state licenses prior to fishing on BAFB. The Annual BAFB Fishing Permit fee is
  $15, and the permit is valid for 1 year from the date of purchase. The Three-Day BAFB
  Fishing Permit fee is $5 and is valid for 3 consecutive days. Those meeting the criteria as
  stated in paragraph 7.5 above may apply to receive a season fishing license at no cost.
 22                                                   BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


   21.3. Persons engaged in fishing must obtain all fishing licenses required by Louisiana, in
   addition to any required BAFB permit. The fishing permit and licenses must be on the
   person while fishing on the reservation. .
   21.4. Forest ponds are less than 5 acres in size and are designated as Dixon, Juanita, Flat,
   Steepbank, Texas, Wood Duck, Spring, Tank, Guy, and Jack’s Ponds. Forest ponds have a
   minimum size limit on bass and channel catfish of 12 inches and creel limit of 5 bass and 10
   channel catfish.
   21.5. The daily limit for bream on Harmon Lake is 25 per person.
   21.6. Fishing devices known as yo-yos or trigger devices are not permitted on forest ponds.
   Other bodies of water, except Flag Lake, are open to yo-yo fishing year around, except on
   water bodies closed during gun deer, waterfowl and turkey hunting seasons. Flag Lake is
   open to yo-yos October through April only. A maximum of 25 yo-yos per fisherman may be
   used. Fishing with yo-yos is permitted only from one hour before official sunset to one hour
   after official sunrise. No yo-yo may be baited or set prior to one hour before sunset. All yo-
   yos must be tripped and unbaited and all caught fish removed by one hour after legal sunrise
   by the owner. Each yo-yo, set hook, jug and trotline must be identified with the user’s name
   and phone number. On the spool of each yo-yo shall be attached one (1) square inch of
   reflective tape. The person whose name is on the yo-yo must be aboard the boat while
   attending yo-yos. A set yo-yo is defined as one that has the line unwound with the spring
   latch being engaged and is able to be tripped.
   21.7. Trotline, set hooks, and jug fishing are permitted on waterways, excluding forest
   ponds, Clear, Austin, and Red Horse Lakes. No container that has contained any type of
   hazardous material or liquids that could possibly be toxic to the environment may be used.
   Each trotline must not have more than 25 hooks. A maximum of five trotlines may be set out
   at one time, and no fisherman may have more than 50 hooks (combined total of all fishing
   methods) set out at any one time. All lines and hooks must be checked at least every 12
   hours.
   21.8. Driving nails, spikes, screws, bolts, or other metal objects into trees is prohibited.
   21.9. All nets, traps, lines, jug, hooks or yo-yos found to be in violation of this regulation
   will be confiscated and/or destroyed.
   21.10. The taking of freshwater fish, reptiles, and amphibians for commercial use or sale is
   prohibited.
   21.11. The use of hoop nets, wire nets, or other fish traps is prohibited excepting nets or
   traps used solely for the purpose of harvesting crawfish and wooden slat traps in Red Chute
   Bayou, Flat River, and Cutoff #2 for harvesting catfish only. All other fish caught in traps
   must be immediately released. A maximum of two wooden slat traps per person is allowed.
   All traps
and nets must be marked or tagged with the owner's name and phone number, if left unattended.
   21.12. Fishing from bridges and Flag Lake spillway is prohibited. Unauthorized personnel
   are not allowed on the spillway overflow or run-off structures.
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                                23


  21.13. Fishing by bow and arrow is permitted for non-game fish in accordance with state
  regulations only in Flag Lake, Moon Lake, Red Chute Bayou, and Flat River. A BAFB
  Fishing Permit is required in addition to a basic state fishing license.
  21.14. No carp may be taken from Flag Lake by any method, unless authorized by the
  natural resources manager.
  21.15. Any fish caught in a cast net that is not bait fish must be released immediately. Cast
  netting for bait in forest ponds is prohibited.
  21.16. Frogs may be taken in accordance with state regulations. A BAFB Fishing Permit is
  required in addition to a basic state fishing license.
  21.17. During the modern firearm deer-hunting season, fishing is restricted to Flag Lake,
  Austin Lake, Harmon Lake, and Clear Lake (within 100 yards of Clear Lake Bridge).
  Fishing on the upper 2/3 of Flag Lake is permissible while a firearm deer hunt is in progress,
  as long as waterfowl season is closed.
  21.18. During waterfowl hunting season, fishing is restricted to the southern 1/3 of Flag
  Lake, Austin Lake, Harmon Lake, Clear Lake (within 100 yards of Clear Lake Bridge), and
  all forest ponds, except fishing is not permitted during this timeframe on Jack’s Pond and
  Cutoff #1. Persons may fish on Red Horse Lake, provided fishing is done at least 150 yards
  from any waterfowl hunting activities. No fishing is allowed within 100 yards of the
  designated waterfowl hunting area in Flag Lake.
  21.19. During primitive firearm deer and turkey seasons, fishing is closed in areas open to
  hunting. Through the remainder of the year, fishing areas are unrestricted unless posted at
  BNR.
22. BOATING
  22.1. Mandatory Boating Education - All persons born after 1 January 1984 must complete a
  boating education course and carry proof of completion to operate a motorboat in excess of
  10 horsepower. The person may operate the boat if accompanied by someone over 18 who,
  if required, has completed the course.
  22.2. All motor-powered boats must have current registration in owner’s home state or
  Louisiana.
  22.3. All boats, including canoes and pirogues, must be equipped with a Coast Guard-
  approved Type I, II, III, IV, or V personal flotation device (PFD) for each person on board.
  All PFDs carried on board must be serviceable and the appropriate size for the intended
  wearer. On watercraft 16 feet in length or more, you must also have one Type IV throwable
  PFD. Persons under 16 years of age must wear an approved PFD at all times while on board
  a watercraft. All persons boating on Red Chute Bayou must wear an approved PFD at all
  times. The use of canoes and pirogues on Red Chute Bayou is prohibited during floods. A
  flood is defined as anytime when the water within Red Chute Bayou is measured above flood
  stage as recorded by the National Weather Service, Shreveport.
  22.4. Anyone onboard a vessel less than 26 feet , propelled by a hand tiller outboard motor is
  required to wear a Type I, II, III, or V United States Coast Guard approved personal
  floatation device (PFD) while the vessel is underway. A hand tiller outboard is described as
  an outboard motor that has a tiller or steering arm attached to the outboard motor to facilitate
24                                                    BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


  steering and does not have any mechanical assist device which is rigidly attached to the boat
  and used in steering the vessel, including but not limited to mechanical, hydraulic, or
  electronic control systems. This does not include any type of electronic trolling motor.
  22.5. No person shall operate a motorboat with a hand tiller outboard motor in excess of ten
  horsepower designed to have or having an engine cut-off switch, while the engine is running
  and the motorboat is underway, unless: (a.) the engine cut-off switch is fully functional and
  in operable condition; and (b.) the engine cut-off switch link is attached to the operator, the
  operators clothing, or if worn, the operators personal flotation device. These regulations do
  not apply to sailboats and vessels engaged in licensed commercial activity.
  22.6. Boating is not to be permitted on base waters when severe weather warnings are in
  effect or a small craft or a lake wind advisory has been issued. All boaters must operate
  boats in accordance with state, federal and base laws and regulations.
  22.7. No person may operate a boat while under the influence of alcohol. It is unlawful for a
  boat owner to permit any person who is intoxicated to operate their vessel.
  22.8. A boat shall not be loaded with passengers or cargo beyond its safe carrying capacity.
  22.9. No person operating a motorboat shall allow a person in the motorboat to ride or sit on
  the gunwales, tops of seat backs, or on the decking over the bow or stern of the motorboat
  while the motorboat is underway, unless the person is inboard of guards or rails provided on
  the motorboat to prevent passengers from being lost overboard.
  22.10. A boat operator may not operate a vessel in a careless manner that is grossly
  indifferent to the safety of other persons or their property, or travel at a rate of speed greater
  than will permit a safe stop in a safe distance.
  22.11. Established boat ramps must be used to unload boats from trailers into base lakes.
  Vehicles and trailers must travel only on designated roads.
  22.12. No gas-powered motors are allowed to be operated in Clear Lake, Austin Lake, forest
  ponds, or wetlands.
  22.13. Inflatable-type boats are not permitted for recreational use on BAFB waterways.
  22.14. No refuse or garbage may be dumped from boats.
  22.15. Permanent tying to any pier is prohibited.
  22.16. Boats may not be stored in a location that blocks use of piers, boat ramps, or other
  facilities.
23. OTHER OUTDOOR RECREATION
  23.1. Hiking, camping, bird watching, bicycling, horseback riding, picnicking, gardening,
  and berry picking are authorized, except as restricted by this instruction, for DoD personnel,
  their dependents and sponsored guests in the BAFB forest, along forest access roads and
  trails.
  23.2. No primitive camping is allowed during the BAFB modern firearm deer season except
  at the designated Harmon Lake camping area and park areas administered by outdoor
  recreation. Hunters must register with BNR prior to camping in the Harmon Lake area
  during any hunting season. Firearms may not be loaded or discharged in a camping area.
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                               25


  23.3. Campfires are allowed except during periods of high fire danger when the natural
  resources manager may prohibit campfires. No campfire may be left unattended. Campers
  must ensure that campfires do not get out of control. All fires must be extinguished and
  dead-out before being left unattended.
  23.4. A firewood permit is required for persons cutting or collecting firewood, with one
  exception - a permit is not required for collection of fallen wood for campfires on BAFB east
  reservation. Firewood permits are sold at BNR. Firewood may be cut as directed by BNR.
  Downed or fallen hardwood trees only may be cut and removed as firewood. Cutting live
  wood for firewood is prohibited.
  23.5. Noise-producing devices and audio devices including radios, televisions, and musical
  instruments, etc., will not be operated or used in such a manner as to disturb other persons. A
  “quiet period” will be maintained on campsites between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
24. GARDENS
  24.1. Persons desiring a garden plot must register with BNR. If a plot is not available, the
  person’s name will be placed on a garden waiting list. The natural resources manager assigns
  available garden plots on a first-come, first-serve basis. Gardens are available only at the
  established garden areas along Moon Lake Road.
  24.2. If you had a garden last year, your plot will automatically be reregistered provided you
  cultivate your assigned area by 1 April. Gardens not worked by 1 April may be reassigned to
  persons on the garden waiting list.
  24.3. Gardeners must post their name on a sign at the assigned garden plots. Gardeners may
  not transfer their plots to other individuals.
  24.4. Each gardener must adhere to the following guidelines regarding pesticides and
  fertilizers.
     24.4.1. All pesticides and fertilizers are to be removed from the base when not in use.
     Pesticides include herbicides, fungicides, and insecticides.
     24.4.2. Pesticides must be applied in accordance with label directions.
     24.4.3. Restricted pesticides and fertilizers may not be used.
  24.5. All water collection containers must be clearly labeled “WATER.” Containers must be
  in good condition and removed or stored neatly.
  24.6. Bird scares and animal repellents must be removed 1 November to 31 January.
  24.7. Garden areas are to be kept clean and orderly. All buildings must remain in good
  condition or the owners will be required to remove them. Stored items must be for the
  purpose of tending or working the garden. Garden areas or buildings are not to be used for
  general purpose storage areas.
  24.8. Persons who desire to burn their assigned garden plots must coordinate the proposed
  action with the natural resources manager. Once the proposed action is approved, the
  individual will notify the BAFB fire department of the impending action.
  24.9. No trees or adjacent vegetation may be removed, poisoned, or girdled without prior
  approval from the natural resources manager.
26                                                 BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


25. PENALTIES AND SUSPENSION OF PRIVILEGES
  25.1. Anyone who violates any of the provisions of this instruction, or any acts inconsistent
  with good safety practices, or which results in injury or damage to persons or property, may
  have any hunting, fishing, and/or other outdoor recreation privileges withdrawn. This action
  will be taken independently of other punitive and administrative action. Persons who are
  apprehended for violating BAFB, state or federal fishing, hunting, and outdoor recreation
  regulations and laws may be subject to debarment from BAFB, permanent revocation of
  privileges, suspension of fishing, hunting or outdoor recreational privileges, federal judicial
  action, court fines, and other nonjudicial or administrative action.
  25.2. Letters of suspension for violations will be initiated by 2 SFS Game Warden, except as
  stated in paragraph 12.13. Suspension or revocation letters are issued under 2 MSG/CC
  authority. All letters are coordinated through 2d BW Legal Office any time changes are
  required.
  25.3. An enforcement matrix that lists specific violations and suspensions is attached (See
  Attachment 2). A suspension may be issued for one specific recreation activity, several
  activities or all recreation activities. The 2 BW/CC or his designee may restrict the violator
  from access to the east reservation and BAFB.
  25.4. Sponsors are responsible for the action of their guests and dependents. Violation of
  laws and regulations by a dependent or by a guest may result in penalties or privilege
  suspension for the sponsor as well as the offender.
  25.5. Appeal Procedure. Individuals may appeal citations and request an informal hearing
  with the 2 MSG/CC. An appeal or hearing request must be submitted in writing within 7
  days from the date of citation. The completed appeal must be endorsed by the person’s unit
  commander and delivered to the Natural Resource Manager, 6141 Range Road, Barksdale
  AFB, LA 71110. The Natural Resources Manager will compile supporting data and deliver
  the appeal to 2 SFS Reports and Analysis, 425 Lindbergh Ave, Barksdale AFB, LA 71110-
  2927.
     25.5.1. The 2 MSG/CC is the final decision authority on any appeals. The 2 MSG
     Deputy Commander (MSG/CD) or his or her designee may conduct an administrative
     hearing and act on all matters relating to suspension or revocation of base privileges upon
     request. The 2 MSG/CD will use the "preponderance of the evidence" standard for
     making factual determinations.
  25.6. The following records will be prepared by 2 SFS Game Wardens and maintained by
  Security Forces Reports and Analysis:
     25.6.1. A list of individuals who have received a citation for any violations of this
             instruction. Information to be included is the violator’s name, the type of
     violation, the date of the citation, and the type of citation.
     25.6.2. A list of individuals whose privileges have been suspended. The list will include
             the names, violations, dates of suspensions, and the dates of reinstatement of
     privileges.
     25.6.3. A written report will be filed on all individuals apprehended or detained by law
     enforcement personnel for violation of any federal, state, or installation law or regulation.
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                              27


     Certain violations must be reported to the 2 MSG/CC. The commander determines the
     appropriate action or recommends disposition if criminal enforcement is required.
  25.7. Illegally taken fish or wildlife will be confiscated. Security forces personnel will
  maintain accountability of confiscated animals, fish, and game. Animals, fish, and game that
  are unharmed will be released. Game Wardens will donate other fish and game to charity if
  in acceptable condition and not required to be stored for evidence.
  25.8. Any person who violates any rule within this regulation within (3) three years of
  resumption of privileges from a previous violation shall face a minimum of a three (3) year
  suspension. If either of the violations were a safety violation, then the suspension will be
  five (5) years. Persons violating two or more different rules shall have their suspensions for
  each offense run consecutively.




                                           ANDREW J. GEBARA, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 2d Bomb Wing
 28                                             BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, 17 September 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AO—Archery Only
ATVs— All Terrain Vehicles
BAFB—Barksdale Air Force Base
BNR—Barksdale Natural Resources
BW/JA—Legal Office, Bomb Wing
CES—Civil Engineer Squadron
CES/CC—Commander, Civil Engineer Squadron
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Demolition
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FSS—Force Support Squadron
MSG—Mission Support Group
MSG/CC—Commander, Mission Support Group
MSG/CD—Deputy Commander, Mission Support Group
NAP—Nuisance Animal Permit
MSA—Non-nuclear Munitions Storage Area
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PFD—Personal Flotation Device
POV’S—Privately Owned Vehicles
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
QDM—Quality Deer Management
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                        29


                                        Attachment 2
                     GAME AND FISH ENFORCEMENT MATRIX


                                                                     Violation NOTES
HUNTING                                                PARA.           Class.
  1. Hunting without State, Federal, or Barksdale 7.2, 7.3                     (1)
     licenses, permits, stamps, or tags.                           III
  2. Failure to attend hunter safety course, as 6.1, 6.2
     required                                                      II
  3. Hunting while under the influence            5.4                        (4)
                                                                   I
  4. Not wearing hunter orange as required             6.4, 5.2              (4)
                                                                   I
  5. Hunting in an unsafe manner                       7.1                   (4)
                                                                   I
  6. The possession or use of a handgun                11.1
                                                                   III
  7. Possession of a loaded firearm in a vehicle       6.5                   (4)
                                                                   I
  8. Hunting or taking birds or game from any form 6.6                       (4)
     of motorized equipment (excludes waterfowl                    II
     hunting from stationary boats with motor shut
     down)
  9. Possession of a loaded firearm on road        6.5                       (4)
                                                                   III
  10. Unsafe or illegal discharge of a firearm         6.1, 6.6,             (4)
                                                       12.5        I
  11. Use of an unauthorized weapon or ammunition 11
                                                                   III
  12. Unauthorized target shooting                     3.19, 5.8
                                                                   III
  13. Other firearm violation                          11                    (4)
                                                                   III
  14. Placing or hunting over bait                     7.10
                                                                   II
  15. Unauthorized planting of wildlife food plot      7.12
                                                                   III
  16. Unauthorized placement of salts or minerals      7.11
                                                                   III
  17. Harassing, harming, or killing any Threatened 3.14                     (4)
      or Endangered Species                                        I
30                                                      BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


     18. Possession of a firearm during prohibited 7.14, 10                      (4)
         periods, in prohibited areas, or closed season              I
     19. Hunting in a closed or prohibited area or out of 3.12, 10               (4)
         season                                                      I
     20. Killing or possession of prohibited birds or 3.9, 3.10,                 (4)
         animals during closed season                 7.8, 7.9   I
     21. Failure to mark a blind or stand as required     8.13                   Stand Loss
                                                                     III
     22. Unauthorized construction of blind or stand      8
                                                                     III
     23. Failure to comply with BAFB Hunting Check 9
         Station Requirements                                        III
     24. Driving deer                              12.4
                                                                     II
     25. Possession or use of dogs as prohibited by AFI 7.15, 18,
         32-7064_BAFB Sup, Integrated Natural 20                     II
         Resources Management or state law
     26. Shooting before or after hours set for hunting 1.3, 15.3                (4)
                                                                     II
     27. Taking over the limit on migratory or non- 7.1,                         (2) (4)
         migratory game                                              I
     28. Taking waterfowl with lead shot            15.7                         (2) (4)
                                                                     I
     29. Possession of lead shot while hunting 15.7                              (2) (4)
         waterfowl                                                   I
     30. Unauthorized transportation of any live wild 7.16
         game                                                        III
     31. Possession or use of poison or drug device   7.1                        (4)
                                                                     I
     32. Violation of state or federal game law           1.3
                                                                     I
     33. Failure to properly tag harvested deer or 3.18
         Turkey                                                      III

FISHING                                                   PARA.      Violation   NOTES
                                                                     Class.
     1. Fishing without BAFB Fishing Permit               21.2
                                                                     III
     2. Fishing without required state licenses           21.3                   (1)
                                                                     III
     3. Fishing in a closed area                          21
                                                                     III
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                           31


  4. Fishing from bridge or water control structure    21.12
                                                                   IV
  5. Exceeding daily or possession limits              21.1, 21.4
                                                       21.5,      II
  6. Violation of size limits                          21.4
                                                                   III
  7. Cast netting in forest pond                       21.15
                                                                   IV
  8. Failure to properly identify lines, jug, hooks or 21.6
     yo-yos                                                        IV          Remove /
                                                                               lines
  9. Unauthorized fishing device, fish trap, yo-yos, or 21.6, 21.7,
     fish net                                           21.11       IV         Remove /
                                                                               device
  10. Removing grass carp from flag lake               21.14
                                                                   III
  11. Taking fish for commercial use                   21.10
                                                                   I
  12. Violation of state or federal fishing law        21.1
                                                                   III

                                                                   Violation
BOATING                                                PARA.                   NOTES
                                                                   Class.
  1. No state boat registration                        22.2                    (1)
                                                                   III
  2. Operating a boat/vessel while intoxicated         5.4, 22.7
                                                                   I           (5)
  3. Failure to comply with personal flotation 22.3, 22.4
     device requirements                                  IV
  4. Unsafe boating action                       22                            (5)
                                                          II
  5. Violation of BAFB, state or federal boating 22                            (5)
     regulation                                           III
  6. Use of gas motors where prohibited          22.12
                                                          III
  7. Dumping refuse or garbage from boat         22.14
                                                          III
  8. Leaving unattended boat tied to any pier    22.15,
                                                 22.16    III
  9. Use of inflatable boat                            22.13
                                                                   III
 32                                                    BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013



MOTOR VEHICLES                                                       Violation   NOTES
                                                          PARA.      Class.
      1. Failure to comply with motor vehicle operation 4.1
         and/or licensing requirement                                III
      2. Speeding                                         4.2                    SFS specific
                                                                     III
      3. Motor vehicle use off designated roads           4.3
                                                                     III
      4. Obstruction of right-of-way or gate              4.5
                                                                     III
      5. Failure to report a motor vehicle accident       4.12                   SFS specific
                                                                     III
      6. Possession of an open alcoholic container        5.4                    SFS specific
         while operating a vehicle                                   III
      7. Driving a private vehicle on a road marked as    4.4
         closed with a “NO POV” sign                                 III
      8. Use of an ATV without ATV Safety Card or         4.7, 4.8,
         for an unauthorized activity                     4.10, 4.11 III

ACCESS                                                               Violation   NOTES
                                                          PARA.      Class.
      1. Unauthorized access violation                    2                      SFS specific
                                                                     I
      2. Failure of sponsors to remain on east            2.3                    (3)
         reservation with guests that are hunting or                 III
         fishing
      3. Dependent sponsoring guest when firearm or       2.5                    (3)
         weapon used                                                 III
      4. Failure to supervise youth                       2.4                    (3)
                                                                     III
      5. Failure to supervise guest                       2.3, 2.4               (3)
                                                                     III

                                                                     Violation
GARDENS                                                   PARA.                  NOTES
                                                                     Class.
      1. Failure to keep garden area clean and orderly    24.7
                                                                     II
      2. Failure to follow guidelines on pesticides and   24.4
         fertilizers                                                 III
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                          33


  3. Failure to properly identify assigned garden       24.1, 24.3
     plot                                                            III
  4. Unauthorized burning of garden plot                24.8
                                                                     III

OTHER VIOLATIONS                                        PARA.        Violation
                                                                                 NOTES
                                                                     Class.
  1. Dumping, disposing or littering                    3.6, 3.7,
                                                        22.14        II
  2. Disturbance of the peace or other disorderly       3.4
     conduct                                                         I
  3. Refusal to furnish identification, license, and    3.3
     permits                                                         I
  4. Poaching                                           3.9, 3.10                (4)
                                                                     I
  5. Trapping                                           3.11                     (4)
                                                                     I
  6. Unauthorized collection, destruction or injury     3.9
     of any plant or animal                                          I
  7. Feeding, baiting, attracting or harassing          5.5
     alligators                                                      II
  8. Entry into designated bird rookeries          (1   3.13
     March - 15 June)                                                IV
  9. Spotlighting                                       3.15
                                                                     II
  10. Damaging a natural or related resource            1.5
                                                                     I
  11. Unauthorized introduction of animal or plant      3.10
      life                                                           I
  12. Vandalism                                         3.8
                                                                     I
  13. Collecting historical or cultural artifact        3.9
                                                                     I
  14. Entry onto Flag Lake spillway or water control    21.12
      structure                                                      IV
  15. Swimming, snorkeling, diving, skiing, or use      5.6
      of a towable device or personal watercraft on                  IV
      waterway
  16. Unauthorized entrance to oil and gas              5.7
      production facility                                            I
  17. Tampering with, handling or removing              5.10
      ordnance                                                       I
 34                                                     BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


      18. Unauthorized camping                             23.1,
                                                           23.2      IV
      19. Unauthorized burning or campfire                 5.09,
                                                           23.3      III
      20. Cutting live wood at campsites for firewood      23.4
                                                                     III
      21. Failure to submit to search                      3.3                    SFS specific
                                                                     I
      22. Threatening an AF employee or enforcement        3.4                    SFS specific
          officer                                                    I
      23. Interference with official business or field     3.4
          exercise                                                   I
      24. Operating hunting or fishing activities for      3.5                    (4)
          personal gain                                              I
      25. Failure to comply with the provisions of AFI     1.3                    Provision for
          32-3064 BAFB Supplement 1, applicable state                I            violations not
          and federal laws pertaining to the use of                               listed
          natural resources, hunting, fishing, and
          recreation.
      26. Committing two or more violations within 3       25.8
          years
      27.

VIOLATION CLASS:
Class I: Individuals cited for an offense within this class will receive a three (3) year
suspension.
Class II: Individuals cited for an offense within this class will receive a two (2) year
suspension.
Class III: Individuals cited for an offense within this class will receive a one (1) year
suspension.
Class IV: Individuals cited for an offense within this class will receive a six (6) month
suspension.

NOTE: This violation matrix is designed to serve as a general guide for enforcement personnel.
When determining the length of suspension for minor infractions, consider that in some instances
a written warning may be as effective as a suspension in altering behavior while at the same time
protecting the resource and promoting recreational activities. Among the many factors to
consider is whether the individual has had multiple offenses. The enforcement officer must have
the flexibility to recommend an appropriate action based upon his or her knowledge of the case.
As with all violations, an appropriate penalty can only be determined once the specific facts of
the case are known. The 2d Mission Support Group Commander may increase suspension above
the maximum suspension listed herein for more serious or repeat violations.
 (1) Anyone cited for this offense will receive an immediate 30-day suspension. Offender has 7
days to provide proof of prior license/permit purchase /or proof of registration to BNR. If proof
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                               35


is provided, suspension automatically expires after 30 days. If offender does not provide proof
of correction, suspension will remain effective until later date.
 (2) In addition to a suspension of privileges, civilians may be issued a citation for violating
Federal regulations for migratory game birds.
(3) Sponsors who fail to ensure their guests or dependents comply with base hunting and fishing
regulations may be subject to suspension or revocation of base hunting and/or fishing privileges.
 (4) Required to attend a Louisiana State Hunter Education Course prior to admittance back onto
the east reservation for recreational purposes; regardless if previously taken or not. Proof of
course completion must be shown prior to reinstatement of recreational privileges.
36                 BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


          Attachment 3
     EAST RESERVATION MAP
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                                                                         37


                                                          Attachment 4
    BARKSDALE PHYSICALLY CHALLENGED ATV USE PERMIT APPLICATION

Applicant’s Name ______________________________________________________________
                                         Last                       First                              Middle                   Jr. or Sr.
Mailing Address ______________________________________________________________________
City ________________________                          State _________________             Zip Code _________________

Date of Birth _________________                        Phone #(___)___________             Date ____________________

Type of Permit you are applying for (Please circle choice):

Class I : Wheelchair Bound                                           Class II: Mobility Impaired
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               This section must be completed by a Licensed Medical Doctor
In an effort to insure that all permittees meet the requirements of the law, please review this information
and answer the following questions.

Permanent Disability __________                                     Temporary Disability ______________
                                                                    (To qualify the disability must be for at least one year)
Describe the specific nature of the disability and the reason the applicant qualifies for the requested
permit.
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
I hereby affirm that I am a medical doctor licensed to practice medicine and further state that the patient listed above
meets the criteria as described in the guidelines for the Physically Challenged Hunter and should be issued the
appropriate permit.

Physician’s Name (Printed) _____________________________________________________
Address: ____________________________________________________________________
Phone #: _________________________
Approved: _______________________________                           Date:_________________________
                   (Signature of licensed Physician)

Return the original signed and completed application to:
Barksdale Natural Resources Office                                                         318 456 3353
6141 Range Road                                                                            318 456 1321 (fax)
Barksdale AFB, LA 71110
Barksdale Natural Resouces Office Use Only
ATV Use (Approved / Denied) Date of Review:_____________BAFB Basic Hunting Permit#_________________
 38                                                   BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013


Persons who are mobility impaired may use an ATV during hunting season to
move through hunting areas for hunting purposes only with written approval
and direction from the natural resources manager upon successful completion of
the BAFB Physically Challenged ATV Use Application. There are two classes
of Physically Challenged Hunters:

Class I: Wheel Chair Bound – The disability must permanently confine the applicant to the use
of a wheelchair. If the applicant may eventually recover enough to not require the use of a
wheelchair, they do not qualify for this class permit. If the future prognosis is uncertain, the
applicant does not qualify at this time.
Class II: Mobility Impaired – Applicants must meet one of the following requirements:
      Cannot walk 100 feet without stopping to rest.
      Cannot walk without the assistance of another person, walker, crutches, braces, prosthetic
       device, or temporary use of a wheelchair.
      Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that the person’s forced (respiratory)
       volume for one second, when measured by spirometry, is less than one liter, or the
       arterial oxygen tension is less than sixty mm/hg on room air at rest.
      Uses portable oxygen.
      Has a cardiac condition to the extent that the person’s functional limitations are classified
       in severity as Class III or Class IV according to standards set by the American Heart
       Association.
      Has a diagnosed disease or disorder, including a severe arthritic, neurological, or
       orthopedic impairment, which creates a severe mobility limitation.
      Individuals who are temporarily disabled for a minimum of one year duration may be
       issued this permit. The permit would be valid for one year only. If the conditions still
       exist after one year, the individual may reapply and be issued a new permit.

Physically Challenged ATV Use Permit Applications shall be sent or delivered to
the BAFB Natural Resources Manager. Physically Challenged Hunter Permit
Applicants with any violation of this instruction within the past 5 years shall not
be issued permits.
BARKSDALEAFBI32-7064 7 MAY 2013                                                                                              39


                                                          Attachment 5
BARKSDALE PHYSICALLY CHALLENGED SPORTSMAN PERMIT APPLICATION

Applicant’s Name ______________________________________________________________
                                         Last                       First                         Middle             Jr. or Sr.
Mailing Address ______________________________________________________________________
City ________________________                          State _________________          Zip Code _________________

Date of Birth _________________                        Phone #(___)___________          Date ____________________
TYPE OF DISABILITY:
_____ Legally Blind – meaning that the individual has a visual acuity of 20/200 or less in the better eye
      with correcting lenses.
_____ Paraplegic.
_____ Amputee of leg above the ankle or arm above the wrist.
_____ Artificial limbs or permanent braces for mobility as a result of a permanent and total disability.
_____ Developmentally disabled persons to include, but not limited to, mental retardation, cerebral
         palsy, down syndrome, spina bifida, and multiple sclerosis.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               This section must be completed by a Licensed Medical Doctor
In an effort to insure that all permittees meet the requirements of the Barksdale AFB regulations, please
review this information and answer the following questions.
Describe the specific nature of the disability and the reason the applicant qualifies for the requested
permit.________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
I hereby affirm that I am a medical doctor legally licensed to practice medicine and further state that I have
personally examined the individual named above and certify that he/she is disabled as specified above and should be
issued the appropriate permit. In the case of artificial limbs or permanent braces, I certify that this is a permanent
and total disability and that the applicant will always require artificial limbs and/or braces for mobility. I further
certify that in the case of legally blind, the visual acuity with correcting lens of the left eye is __________ and the
right eye is __________.

Physician’s Name (Printed) ______________________________________________________________
Address: _______________________________________________ Phone #: ______________________
Approved: _______________________________________________ Date:________________________
                   (Signature of licensed Physician)
Return the original signed and completed application to:
Barksdale Natural Resources Office                                            Phone: (318) 456-3353
6141 Range Road , Barksdale AFB, LA 71110                                     Fax:   (318) 456-1321
