BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 BEALE AFB INSTRUCTION 40-701
BEALE AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                16 APRIL 2014

                                                                             Medical Command

                                                          MEDICAL SUPPORT TO FAMILY
                                                            MEMBERS RELOCATION AND
                                                         EXCEPTIONAL FAMILY MEMBER
                                                                    PROGRAM (EFMP)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 9 MDG/SGH                                                          Certified by: 9 MDG/CC
                                                                             (Col Jody L. Ocker)
                                                                                         Pages: 9


This publication implements AFI 40-701, Medical Support to Family Member Relocation and
Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP). It establishes guidance for the Beale Air Force
Base Special Needs Identification and Assignment Coordination (SNIAC) process and its area of
responsibility (AOR) whose functions are to identify special medical and educational service
requirements of family members in support of Air Force (AF) active duty sponsor reassignment
and civilian employment overseas. This instruction applies to all military and civilian personnel
and their family members entitled to receive medical care in military treatment facilities as
specified in AFI 41-115, Authorized Health Care and Health Care Benefits in the Military
Health Services System. The Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Commnad
(AFRC) do not have separate systems to determine services availability. It applies to all
organizations assigned or attached to the 9th Reconnaissance Wing (9 RW). This publication
requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974.
The authority to collect and maintain the records prescribed by this instruction is 10 USC 8013.
Each form, format, or form letter prescribed by this publication which requires a Privacy Act
Statement (PAS), in accordance with AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, must have the PAS
incorporated thereon. Collected information is “For Official Use Only.” Requests to release
Privacy Act information to persons or agencies outside the Department of Defense (DoD) must
be in accordance with AFI 33-332. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication, route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
 2                                                         BEALEAFBI40-701 16 APRIL 2014


33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

1. GENERAL INFORMATION
     1.1. The Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP) and Family Member Relocation
     Clearance (FMRC) program strive to ensure Air Force sponsors are assigned in locations that
     support both the accomplishment of the mission and the well-being of families. Enrollment
     in the EFMP is mandatory for military dependents that meet criteria outlined in Department
     of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 1315.19, Authorizing Special Needs Family Members Travel
     Overseas at Government Expense. All family members enrolled in EFMP will complete the
     Family Member Relocation Clearance (FMRC) process prior to Permanent Change of Station
     (PCS). In addition, all dependent members of an Active Duty Service Member (ADSM)
     must complete the FMRC process prior to overseas travel. Family members who travel
     overseas without command sponsorship are at risk of reduced or non-available medical care,
     loss of benefits such as base privileges or housing, and may incur significant personal
     expense when further relocation is needed. Active Duty Service Members (ADSMs) who
     intentionally bypass the clearance process risk disciplinary action. The FMRC process is
     both administrative, as well as, clinical in nature. Family Member Relocation Clearance
     Coordinators (FMRCC) carry out the administrative functions of Special Needs Coordination
     processes.
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
     2.1. 9th Reconnaissance Wing Commander
        2.1.1. Ensures that all ADSMs comply with requirements to report to the Special Needs
        Coordinator (SNC) any family members with special medical and/or educational
        conditions. This ensures appropriate EFMP enrollment and assignment coordination
        functions.
        2.1.2. Ensures base-wide outreach and inter-agency coordination to support the
        identification of special medical and/or educational needs of family members, provide
        social support, and facilitate referrals for needed services.
        2.1.3. Ensures accessibility and reasonable accommodation for family members with
        special needs to base activities, buildings, housing, parking, transportation, and programs
        In Accordance With (IAW) existing Federal and California State legal requirements, as
        well as DoD and AF policy and directives.
     2.2. 9th Medical Group commander (9 MDG/CC)
        2.2.1. With the Chief of Medical Staff (SGH), ensures key medical staff are trained
        annually on the FMRC/EFMP process.
        2.2.2. Ensures SGH and SNC develop and document all FMRC/EFMP training. Ensures
        Medical Group (MDG) personnel participate in training and implement their roles,
        responsibilities, and procedures for FMRC/EFMP. Ensures that all MDG staff with
        direct patient involvement (clinical and administrative) are trained on the reasons for
        screening the family members of ADSMs: 1) EFMP enrollment, and 2) Family member
        relocation clearance processes.
BEALEAFBI40-701 16 APRIL 2014                                                               3


     2.2.3. Requires that sponsors who circumvent the FMRC process after advisement that
     medical and/or educational services are not available at the gaining base and who pay for
     family relocation at their own expense, complete a memorandum. This memorandum
     will document that the ADSM acknowledges they were advised that needed medical
     and/or educational services were unavailable but chose to relocate their family member(s)
     with special needs without government sponsorship. Coordinates with ADSMs unit
     commanders, as needed, to obtain such signatures.
  2.2.4. Ensures privileged providers will identify Air Force family members with special
  medical or educational needs to the EFMP office.
  2.3. Chief of Medical Staff (SGH)
     2.3.1. Maintains overall responsibility for the clinical quality of the SNC process.
     2.3.2. Ensures all providers employed by the MDG participate in training on the
     provisions of DoDI 1315.19, including the criteria for enrollment in EFMP described in
     its Enclosure 4.
     2.3.3. Ensures that prior to assuming duties, providers are trained regarding mandatory
     referrals to the EFMP for any family member of an ADSM who is identified with a
     special medical or educational need (any branch of Service).
  2.4. Special Needs Coordinator (SNC)
     2.4.1. Provides administrative oversight of the EFMP process.
     2.4.2. Supports base-wide training on EFMP through Wing Medical Right Start and
     Wing Smooth Move briefings.
         2.4.2.1. Provides and screens AF Form 4380 during Wing Medical Right Start and
         Wing Smooth Move briefing to identify family members with special needs.
     2.4.3. Refers Army active duty sponsors to the Army EFMP office at Madigan Army
     Medical Center (Commercial 253-968-0254).
  2.5. Family Member Relocation Clearance Coordinators (FMRCC)
     2.5.1. FMRCCs carry out the administrative aspects of the SNC process, including but
     not limited to scheduling appointments, assisting in review of records, establishing and
     maintaining logs and SN files, and explaining forms or processes to families.
     2.5.2. Serves as installation POC for other EFMP-M offices, or Civilian Personnel
     Human Resources Offices, regarding the initiation of the FMRC process.
  2.6. Pediatric Clinic
     2.6.1. Reviews incoming Facility Determination Inquiries (FDI) of children up to age 18
     and makes recommendations regarding service availability.
  2.7. Mental Health Flight Commander
     2.7.1. Upon request, reviews incoming FDIs to make recommendations regarding the
     availability of mental health, substance abuse, and family advocacy services that have
     been identified.
4                                                        BEALEAFBI40-701 16 APRIL 2014


    2.8. Dental Flight Commander
    2.8.1. Upon request, reviews incoming FDIs to make recommendations regarding service
    availability.
    2.9. 9th Reconnaissance Wing Staff Judge Advocate (9 RW/SJA)
       2.9.1. Advises commanders on investigatory, administrative actions, disciplinary actions,
       and limitations to government provided benefits when notified by the MTF/CC of an
       alleged violation of the FMRC process.
    2.10. Military Personnel Section (MPS) Outbound Assignment
       2.10.1. The MPS will provide both EFMP-M and EFMP-Family Support (EFMP-FS)
       with a monthly Q-Code roster and the Base Gains & Loss roster before the 10th duty day
       of the month. The rosters will be sent to the 9 MDG Workflow Manager box.
       2.10.2. The MPS will load all outbound Active Duty Service Members to the virtual
       MPF so that all sponsors with dependents will be screened for special needs prior to PCS.
       2.10.3. The MPS will ensure addition of EFMP office to the MPS’ virtual out-
       processing checklist so the Family Member Relocation Clearance process can be
       completed prior to PCS of ADSMs with dependents enrolled in EFMP. Family Member
       Relocation Clearance shall be completed by the member No Later Than (NLT) 90 days
       prior to departure.
       2.10.4. The MPS will ensure no sponsor with dependents is given orders to OCONUS
       without a AF Form 1466, Request for Family Member’s Medical and Education
       Clearance for Travel, approving travel. MPF/CSS will ensure dependents that were not
       approved for travel are not listed as approved for travel at government expense.
    2.11. 9 MDG/Workflow Manager
       2.11.1. Upon receiving the Q-Code roster and Base Gains & Loss rosters from the MPS
       the      9 MDG Workflow Manager will transfer the files into the Base Gains & Loss +
       Q-Code Rosters folder using this path “O” drive – Restricted Access (FOUO-PA-PII) –
       BLSDM Products – Restricted (FOUO-PA) – MDG Staff Products - Base Gains & Loss
       + Q-Code Rosters. Once the reports are loaded the Workflow Manager will email the
       hyperlink to the newly loaded rosters to the following personnel only: Health Care
       Integrator (SGHH), EFMP Coordinator, Public Health Officer in Charger (OIC) &
       Noncommissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC) and Mental Health OIC & NCOIC.
    2.12. Commanders, First Sergeants, and Supervisors
    2.12.1. Refer active duty sponsors to the EFMP-M office when medical and/or educational
    conditions exist that may warrant enrollment in EFMP. Ensures that all active duty sponsors
    comply with requirements to report to EFMP-M personnel any family members’ special
    medical and educational conditions in order to support EFMP enrollment and assignment
    coordination functions.
    2.12.2. Educate active duty members periodically about the requirements of DoDI 1315.19,
    Enclosure 4 that pertain to family member relocation as specified in AF policy, and of
    installation services available to family members with special needs.
BEALEAFBI40-701 16 APRIL 2014                                                                5


3. Operating Procedures
   3.1. Identification of Special Needs in Family Members of Active Duty Sponsors
      3.1.1. Upon Sponsor In-processing at the Wing Medical Right Start briefing.
      3.1.2. In the course of routine medical care. All medical staff will refer family members
      to the EFMP-M office when conditions are identified that meet EFMP eligibility criteria
      as specified in DoDI 1315.19, Enclosure 4.
      3.1.3. Upon notification of assignment action, Military Personnel Flight Outbound
      assignment staff will provide the sponsor with EFMP-M phone number for the sponsor to
      contact the EFMP-M office to start the Family Medical Clearance process.
   3.2. Removal from SNC
      3.2.1. The Q-code will remain in the sponsor’s name until documentation is received by
      the SNC from a clinical provider or school personnel that indicates there are no longer
      special medical and/or educational needs to consider.
         3.2.1.1. For a dependent enrolled due to medical condition(s), the sponsor will
         provide a new DD 2792 (in rare exceptions, a letter) completed by the specialty care
         provider indicating that specialty care is no longer required for the enrolled
         dependent.
         3.2.1.2. Dependents enrolled that have special educational services will have a new
         request for Family Member’s Medical and Education Clearance for Travel completed
         by school officials stating that the child no longer has an Individualized Educational
         Plan (IEP). If the child has graduated from high school, the sponsor or parent will
         provide a copy of the high school diploma.
         3.2.1.3. Dependents enrolled that have Early Intervention Services will provide a
         new DD 2792-1 completed by Early Intervention Service staff stating the child no
         longer has an Individual Family Service Plan (IFSP) or is no longer eligible for
         services.
         3.2.1.4. In the event of a divorce, death, or loss of dependency status, the sponsor
         will provide a copy of the divorce decree, death certificate (or announcement), or
         other documentation stating that the identified family member is no longer classified
         as a dependent.
      3.2.2. ADSMs with dependents enrolled in EFMP, remain Q-coded even when the
      dependent does not live with the member; for example, in cases where the spouse or ex-
      spouse has full custody.
      3.2.3. The SNC will review the paperwork provided to ensure that no additional
      medical/educational needs exist which meet DoDI criteria for enrollment. The SGH may
      be consulted for input. If a sponsor has more than one dependent with identified needs,
      only the dependent who no longer meets criteria will be dis-enrolled, and the Q-code will
      remain with the sponsor’s name.
      3.2.4. If criteria are not met for enrollment, the SNC or designee will dis-enroll the
      family member. In Q-base, the family member’s information will be edited by stating that
 6                                                        BEALEAFBI40-701 16 APRIL 2014


        the family member does not have any special needs. If there are no additional family
        members identified, the sponsor’s case will be archived.
            3.2.4.1. For families archived, the SNC will send a letter to the MPS requesting that
            the Q-code be removed. A copy will also be given to the sponsor. The SNC will
            document in Q-base the reason for closure. A case closure note will be completed by
            the SNC and placed in the archive file.
            3.2.4.2. Archived files will be filed separately from open EFMP files. Hard copy files
            will be shredded after being scanned.
4. Enrollment in EFMP.
     4.1. When a family member is identified for enrollment in EFMP, the provider will submit
     paperwork to the SNC. The sponsor and identified adult family member are to be notified of
     the required reporting and the referral. The referral source will complete a DD Form 2792
     (medical) and/or DD Form 2792-1 (educational) on the referred family member. The SNC
     will contact the sponsor and adult family member for an enrollment appointment.
     4.2. An EFMP folder will be created for each family. The folder will be labeled with the
     Active Duty Service Member’s last name.
     4.3. The EFMP file is created with sponsor and/or adult family member completing the
     Special Needs Identification and Assignment process form (AF Form 2523, Special Needs
     Identification and Assignment Coordination Information Form) and Privacy Act Statement
     (DD Form 2005, Privacy Act Statement – Health Care Records). Also included in the record
     as appropriate will be DD Form 2792 with copies of supporting medical documentation, DD
     Form 2792-1 with copies of supporting educational documentation specifying the condition,
     and the SNC’s memorandum to AFPC or local MPF requesting the initiation of Assignment
     Limitation Code (ALC) “Q”.
     4.4. The SNC will compose a letter to the sponsor’s Military Personnel Flight requesting the
     ACL be placed with the sponsor’s name.
     4.5. At the appointment, all family information will be entered in to Q-base. Contact with
     the family will also be documented in Q-base.
     4.6. Upon request, copies of DD Form 2792 pertaining to minor dependents are provided to
     the sponsor, parent or legal guardian for use as needed. If mental health or substance abuse
     treatment is documented for a minor dependent aged 13 or older, written consent of the
     minor must be obtained prior to release of the DD Form 2792 to the sponsor, parent or legal
     guardian.
     4.7. Upon request, copies of DD Form 2792 pertaining to adult dependents are only
     provided to the patient described on the DD Form 2792. The identified patient must provide
     written permission to release it to others outside the DoD healthcare network, including the
     sponsor.
     4.8. DD Form 2792 and DD Form 2792-1 are not released to personnel agents or to other
     non-medical entities without express written consent by the patient of majority age or
     parent/legal guardian. They are protected as as are other identifiable health information
     documents within the medical health record.
BEALEAFBI40-701 16 APRIL 2014                                                                    7


5. Maintenance of Documentation
   5.1. SN files are maintained in accordance with the Health Information Portability and
   Accountability Act (HIPAA) and are secured and locked.
   5.2. SN folders are sent to the gaining base once the dependents have been approved for
   travel.
   5.3. If a sponsor retires or separates, the hard copy file is scanned and the contents shredded.
   The scanned file is maintained IAW electronic record management (ERM) and deleted after
   two years.




                                             PHIL A. STEWART, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 9th Reconnaissance Wing
 8                                                       BEALEAFBI40-701 16 APRIL 2014


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 40-701, Medical Support to Family Member Relocation and Execptional Family Member
Program (EFMP), 15 February 2012
AFI 41-115, Authorized Health Care and Health Care Benefits in the Military Health Services
System,
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program,5 Jun 2013
DODI 1315.19, Authorizing Special Needs Family Members Travel Overseas at Government
Expense
Prescribed Forms
There are no forms prescribed in this instruction
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 4380, Air Force Special Needs Screener
AF Form 1466, Request for Family Member’s Medical and Education Clearance for Travel
DD 2792-1, Special Education/Early Intervention Summary
DD Form 2792, Family Member Medical Summary
AF Form 2523, Special Needs Identification and Assignment Coordination Information Form
DD Form 2005, Privacy Act Statement – Health Care Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
9 MDG/CC—9th Medical Group Commander
9 RW—9th Reconnaissance Wing
9 RW/CC—Beale Air Force Commander
9 RW/JA—9th Reconniassance Wing Staff Judge Advocate
ADSM—Active Duty Service Member
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
DoD—Department of Defense
BEALEAFBI40-701 16 APRIL 2014                                                           9


DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
EFMP—Exceptional Family Member Program
EFMP—M- Exceptional Family Member Program- Medical
EFMP—FS- Exceptional Family Member Program-Family Support
ERM—Electronic Record Management
FDI—Facility Determination Inquiry
FMRC—Family Member Relocation Clearance
FMRCC—Family Member Relocation Clearance Coordinators
HIPAA—Health Information Portability and Accountability Act
IAW—In Accordance With
IFSP—Individual Family Service Plan
MDG—Medical Group
MPS—Military Personnel Section
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
NLT—No Later Than
OIC—Officer in Charge
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PAS—Privacy Act Statement
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SGH—Chief of the Medical Staff
SGHH—Health Care Integrator
SNC—Special Needs Coordinator
SNIAC—Special Needs Identification and Assignment Coordination

Terms
Office of Primary Responsibility— The 9 MDG/SGH office is the overall OPR for this OI
