BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         BEALE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
BEALE AIR FORCE BASE                                                         36-3007

                                                                          10 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                            BEALE KEY SPOUSE PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 9 FSS/FSFR                                                         Certified by: 9 MSG/CC
                                                                       (Colonel Douglas Barron)
                                                                                        Pages: 5


This instruction implements the 9th Reconnaissance Wing (9 RW) Key Spouse Program at Beale
AFB. It provides minimum guidelines for each unit commander to use to implement a tailored
program to fit specific squadron needs. It further defines the responsibilities of the unit
commander, the unit first sergeant, the Airman and Family Readiness Center (A&FRC) and the
key spouse/mentor. A reference guide for commanders with additional information, forms, and
tools to help implement and maintain this program is available from the Airman and Family
Readiness Center. This policy applies to all squadrons assigned and attached to Beale AFB.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using an AF Form 847, Recommendation for Changes of Publication:
route AF Form 847s through your Group Publications and Forms Managers. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 36-363, Management of Records, disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. Purpose The purpose of the 9 RW Key Spouse Program is to enhance mission readiness
through effective outreach, education, and support by unit leadership to its family members. It is
designed as a partnership between squadron leadership, appointed key spouses/mentors, and the
Airman and Family Readiness Center to address family readiness concerns. By empowering a
volunteer key spouse/mentor to serve as a vital communications link between the command
structure and its families, squadron leadership will have a direct connection with family members
to pass on vital information of upcoming squadron activities and deployment related issues. As a
result, families become more self-reliant with knowledge of the available resources.
Furthermore, they are better prepared for deployment and should be ready to deal with
 2                                                 BEALEAFBI36-3007 10 NOVEMBER 2011


emergencies more effectively. Each squadron will use the following guidelines to develop their
individual programs. These guidelines will help standardize the overall wing program and
develop a network among individual squadrons to guarantee support to all Team Beale families,
especially in times of deployments and crises.
2. Responsibilities defined
     2.1. Squadron Commander:
        2.1.1. Establishes Key Spouse Program. Conveys to appointed key spouse/mentor
        expectations, guidelines, and parameters of the program.
        2.1.2. Appoints, in writing, the squadron key spouse(s)/mentor and provides letter of
        appointment to Airman and Family Readiness Program Community Readiness
        Consultant.
        2.1.3. Briefs selected key spouse/mentor on roles and responsibilities.
        2.1.4. Ensures key spouse/mentor attends basic and quarterly Key Spouse Program
        training at the Airman and Family Readiness Center upon their appointment.
        2.1.5. Introduces key spouse/mentor to squadron membership.
        2.1.6. Ensures key spouse/mentor involvement with family and deployment activities.
        2.1.7. Ensures key spouse/mentor is aware of the commander's and first sergeant's open-
        door policy to discuss special needs and issues.
        2.1.8. Limits each key spouse appointment to a one-year term with the option to renew
        unless circumstances dictate otherwise. Appointment and dismissal of a key
        spouse/mentor must be done in writing and is the right and responsibility of the
        commander.
        2.1.9. If there is a change of command during the key spouse's/mentor’s term, the new
        commander may reappoint the current key spouse/mentor or select a new one.
        2.1.10. As a member of the commander's staff, the commander should include the key
        spouse/mentor in planning meetings and unit activities.
        2.1.11. Provides necessary resources to effectively perform duties.
            2.1.11.1. Office space, meeting space, and storage space, if feasible.
            2.1.11.2. Phone support and resources.
            2.1.11.3. Office supplies and access to equipment (e.g., necessary computer hardware
            and software to support database management and word processing/desktop
            publishing software) are essential.
            2.1.11.4. Use of official mail. Mailings must carry the return address of the squadron.
        2.1.12. Ensure key spouse/mentor contributions are recognized through formal
        recognition and appreciation programs.
     2.2. First Sergeant
        2.2.1. Serves as main point of contact for routine issues and support.
BEALEAFBI36-3007 10 NOVEMBER 2011                                                              3


     2.2.2. Assists the commander in recruiting.
     2.2.3. Coordinates training with the Airman and Family Readiness Center.
     2.2.4. Provides key spouse/mentor with roster of unit and family member contact
     information gathered from the Family Information Sheet.
     2.2.5. Educates key spouse/mentor on privacy concerns and responsibilities.
     2.2.6. Works closely with key spouse/mentor to ensure a consistent, two-way
     information flow between the unit and its families.
  2.3. Airman and Family Readiness Center (A&FRC)
     2.3.1. Overall focal point for the Key Spouse Support Program.
     2.3.2. Provides program oversight and coordination for all family readiness issues.
     2.3.3. Provides all key spouses with basic training and quarterly support/training
     meetings.
     2.3.4. Provides training, support, and referral services to all commanders, first sergeants,
     and key spouses.
  2.4. Key Spouse Mentor
     2.4.1. The key spouse mentor is a knowledgeable and experienced spouse who provides
     support, encouragement and leadership.
     2.4.2. The mentor acts as an advocate and supports and encourages key spouses.
     2.4.3. Attends wing/group/unit key spouse meetings, leads key spouse meetings and
     ensures issues and unit family readiness concerns are a priority
  2.5. Key Spouse
     2.5.1. The key spouse must be a unit member's spouse. Ideal candidates should be
     mature, trustworthy, an effective communicator, and have a positive attitude about the
     Air Force. They will implement the program in compliance with the expectations,
     guidelines and goals outlined by unit leadership.
     2.5.2. Serves as a communication link between the squadron leadership and families.
     Establishes a communications network among unit families.
     2.5.3. Welcomes all incoming members and families to the squadron and Team Beale.
4                                             BEALEAFBI36-3007 10 NOVEMBER 2011


    2.5.4. Provides information on referral services and squadron activities to family
    members.
    2.5.5. Maintains a family readiness roster.
    2.5.6. Provides the commander/first sergeant feedback regarding family readiness
    concerns and unit morale and welfare issues.
    2.5.7. Attends Airman and Family Readiness Center Basic Key Spouse Training upon
    appointment. Also attends Quarterly Key Spouse Briefing.




                                         PAUL H. MCGILLICUDDY, Brigadier
                                         General,USAF
                                         Commander, 9th Reconnaissance Wing
BEALEAFBI36-3007 10 NOVEMBER 2011                            5


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Record, 1 March 2008
Forms Prescribed
Beale AFB Form 13, Family Information Sheet
Forms Adopted
AF Form 847, Recommend for Change of Publication
