BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       BEALE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
BEALE AIR FORCE BASE                                                       11-210

                                                                       28 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                          Flying Operations

                                                MC-12 OPPOSING FORCE OPERATIONS

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 489 RS/DOW                                                       Certified by: 9 OG/CC
                                                                    (Col Lawrence Hoffman)
                                                                                    Pages: 10


This instruction establishes the procedures for Opposition Force (OPFOR) support of MC-12W
aircrew Mission Qualification Training (MQT) and Continuation Training (CT) at Beale Air
Force Base. Refer recommendation for changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) 489 RS/DOW, Beale AFB, CA 95903 using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Until formal activation of 489 RS, 9 OG
Det 5 will serve as OPR for this instruction. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Contact supporting records managers as required.
 2                                                   BEALEAFBI11-210 28 FEBRUARY 2012



                                           Chapter 1

                                 GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. AUTHORITY. Opposing Force (OPFOR) personnel operate under the authority of the 9
RW/CC under the direction of the 9 OG/CC and the 489 RS. This Instruction implements
procedures for the safe conduct of OPFOR personnel in support of MC-12W training programs.
1.2. APPLICATION. These procedures are directive in nature for units and personnel
participating in OPFOR activities at Beale AFB (hereafter referred to as OPFOR).
1.3. ADMINISTRATION. Approval authority is contingent upon the respective 9 RW Group
Commander’s area of responsibility (e.g. air operations are 9 OG, ground operations are 9 MSG).
     1.3.1. Oversight. An MC-12 pilot assigned to the 489 RS Tactics Office will provide active
     duty liaison for OPFOR personnel and be responsible for contract oversight.
     1.3.2. Program Management. OPFOR will be managed by a program manager with duties
     as assigned under the OPFOR contract statement of work.
        1.3.2.1. Contracting Officer’s Representatives (CORs) for the OPFOR contract must
        receive training by 9 CONS prior to commencement of duties and must adhere to
        Mandatory Procedures 5301.602-2(d). An electronic record must be maintained by 489
        RS for 9 CONS surveillance.
     1.3.3. OPFOR Read File. 489 RS/DOW will maintain an OPFOR Read File that contains
     the following information:
        1.3.3.1. Environmental Guidelines for on-base training areas as directed by 9 CES Asset
        Management Flight, Environmental Element.
        1.3.3.2. On and Off-Base Training Areas as approved by 9 RW/CC. This will include
        approved activities at each area. This section will also describe any shared use areas on-
        base, to include hunting areas, and the appropriate deconfliction procedures, schedules
        and points of contact/coordinating agency.
        1.3.3.3. Letters of Agreement (LOA) for all off-base activities to include law
        enforcement agencies and use of military/non-military training facilities.
BEALEAFBI11-210 28 FEBRUARY 2012                                                              3


                                         Chapter 2

                                VEHICLE OPERATIONS

2.1. GOVERNMENT OWNED VEHICLES (GOV). Any GOVs assigned to OPFOR will not
be used off-base unless approved by the 489 RS/DO.
  2.1.1. GOVs operated beyond a 100-mile radius of Beale AFB require the written approval
  of the Director 9th Support Division IAW AFI 24-301.
2.2. CONTRACTOR VEHICLES.
  2.2.1. Personally Owned Vehicles (POV). Contractors will not use POVs for OPFOR
  activities unless specifically approved by the 489 RS/CC. If approved for use, the following
  POV information must be provided to 9 SFS/Ops:
     2.2.1.1. Make, Model and Color
     2.2.1.2. Registration Information; including owner, VIN, and insurance company.
  2.2.2. Contractor Owned/Leased Company Vehicles.
     2.2.2.1. The OPFOR Contractor will provide a number of company owned or leased
     vehicles as prescribed in the current contract. These vehicles will be dedicated for
     OPFOR use only.
     2.2.2.2. All contractors provided vehicles will be marked IAW the current Local Law
     Enforcement Letter of Agreement (LOA) prior to operating on or off base.
     2.2.2.3. OPFOR dedicated vehicles will be parked in designated spots along the
     flightline fence just south of Building 11703.
2.3. TRAINING OPERATIONS. All personnel acting as OPFOR will be trained in the
following procedures before participating as OPFOR in MQT or CT missions.
  2.3.1. Speed Limit. On and off-base speed limits will be adhered to at all times.
  2.3.2. Restricted Areas. OPFOR vehicles will not be operated in restricted or controlled
  areas (including the flightline parking area, taxiways, and nose docks).
  2.3.3. Environmentally Protected Areas. OPFOR vehicle operators will be aware of
  environmentally protected areas on Beale AFB and will ensure compliance with any
  restrictions in the MC-12 Environmental Protection Guidelines in the OPFOR Read File.
  2.3.4. Operation of Communication Equipment.          Vehicle drivers will not operate
  communications equipment while a vehicle is in motion.
     2.3.4.1. If operating alone, drivers will pull over before operating hand-held radios.
     2.3.4.2. If continuous or frequent communications equipment operation is required to
     support a mission, vehicles will require a dedicated driver and dedicated equipment
     operator.
 4                                                   BEALEAFBI11-210 28 FEBRUARY 2012


                                            Chapter 3

                          INCIDENT MITIGATION AND SAFETY

3.1. INTERACTIONS WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL. To prevent incidents
with law enforcement personnel on or off-base, OPFOR participants will adhere to the following
guidance and the current Local Law Enforcement LOA.
     3.1.1. Documentation. The following documentation will be kept on hand anytime OPFOR
     are operating on or off-base:
        3.1.1.1. Military or Contractor ID Common Access Card (CAC).
        3.1.1.2. OPFOR Identification Letter (minimum one per team).
        3.1.1.3. Driver License, Registration and Insurance information (if operating a vehicle).
     3.1.2. On-Base. The OPFOR Program Manager and Tactics Representative will maintain a
     liaison with 9 SFS and OSI Det 218. Prior to commencement of OPFOR activities, highly
     visible standardized signs must be posted indicating, “MILITARY TRAINING IN
     PROGRESS—DO NOT ENTER”.
        3.1.2.1. OPFOR personnel will not wear AOR costumes unless in a designated training
        area or route as described in the OPFOR Read File.
        3.1.2.2. Simulated weapons and airsoft guns will only be displayed or operated in
        designated training areas (OPFOR Read File). When in transit, simulated weapons and
        airsoft guns will be placed in vehicles in such a manner that they will not draw attention
        from the general populace, yet still be identifiable by law enforcement personnel.
           3.1.2.2.1. Simulated weapons and airsoft guns will be transported in the bed of
           pickup trucks (covered) or the trunk of SUVs/sedans. For any other type of vehicle,
           simulated weapons and airsoft guns must be transported in plain view, chamber open
           (if applicable), and ammunition not in immediate reach of any of the occupants (i.e.,
           weapon in cab of vehicle, ammunition in trunk). Airsoft guns will not be transported
           loaded with ammunition and/or magazines.
           3.1.2.2.2. Once within the confines of a designated training area or site, OPFOR may
           load airsoft ammunition and conduct operations as needed with simulated weapons
           and airsoft guns in or out of vehicles.
           3.1.2.2.3. Prior to departing a training area, OPFOR will ensure ammunition is
           removed from airsoft guns and all simulated weapons are stored for transportation per
           3.1.2.2.1.
        3.1.2.3. Simulated IED displays will only be set up in designated areas as described in
        the OPFOR Read File. 9 SFS will be notified prior to setting up these displays, to
        include a description and photo. 9 SFS will be notified at least one duty day prior to
        setting up any IED displays that will be left in-place for more than one fly period.
        Changes within the 24-hour window must be provided to 9 SFS immediately. Simulated
        IEDs will only be set up on base.
BEALEAFBI11-210 28 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                5


  3.1.3. Off-Base. The OPFOR Program Manager and Tactics Representative will maintain a
  liaison with off-base law enforcement representatives as defined by the Local Law
  Enforcement LOA. This LOA will prescribe all interactions and de-escalation procedures
  with off-base law enforcement personnel. The following general procedures will apply:
     3.1.3.1. Simulated weapons and airsoft guns will be securely stored when en route to
     designated training sites as described in 3.1.2.2.
     3.1.3.2. AOR costumes will not be worn outside designated training sites as described in
     the OPFOR Read File.
     3.1.3.3. Simulated IEDs will not be set up off-base.
  3.1.4. Daily Operations. To ensure proper identification of OPFOR personnel operating on-
  base, 9 SFS Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC) must be aware of when and where
  training will be conducted. Additionally, when operating off-base, 9 SFS must be informed
  of location and duration. In addition, thru 9 SFS, all law enforcement jurisdictions where
  training will be conducted need to be informed. Off-base training sites will be scheduled in
  accordance with agreements made with each facility. The following process will ensure that
  all appropriate agencies are notified prior to conducting OPFOR activities.
     3.1.4.1. The Mission Commander (MC) or Instructor Pilot (IP) will coordinate with
     OPFOR prior to brief time to arrange desired start point and/or operating areas for
     OPFOR-supported training.
     3.1.4.2. OPFOR will provide the MC-12 Operations Supervisor (Ops Sup) with
     scheduled start points and training areas to be used during each scheduled fly period prior
     to the first crew stepping for that fly period. MCs and IPs will verify the correct start
     point and/or training areas with the Ops Sup before departing the squadron to fly.
     3.1.4.3. The Ops Sup will contact the BDOC (and off-base law enforcement agencies as
     appropriate) prior to each fly period and advise them of the following: scheduled training
     areas, start/end time for ops at each training area, number of personnel at each area, a list
     of simulated weapons, IEDs or airsoft guns that will be used, type of activity at each area,
     and lead OPFOR member at each area.
     3.1.4.4. OPFOR will advise the BDOC when arriving and departing each training area.
     Additionally, OPFOR will inform the Ops Sup upon completion of training. For off-base
     training, OPFOR will also inform the Ops Sup once inside the perimeter of Beale AFB.
     3.1.4.5. The Ops Sup will inform the BDOC upon completion of OPFOR support for
     each flying period and when all off-base OPFOR personnel have returned to Beale AFB.
  3.1.5. Negative Encounters with Base/Local Populace and/or Law Enforcement Personnel.
     3.1.5.1. If the OPFOR personnel incur a negative contact with the local populace on or
     off-base during training operations, (i.e., challenging of role players, etc.,) immediately
     cease training and contact BDOC for security forces response (on-base) or the local law
     enforcement jurisdiction (off-base). When able, advise the Ops Sup of the situation.
         3.1.5.1.1. Encounters With On-Base Hunters. Select portions of Beale AFB are
         approved hunting areas. OPFOR may encounter armed (i.e. shotguns, rifles, archery,
         etc.) hunters. All permenant OPFOR personnel will receive hunter deconfliction
6                                                    BEALEAFBI11-210 28 FEBRUARY 2012


           training from 9 CES/CEAN prior to participating in OPFOR activities. The lead
           OPFOR member will brief all persons assisting OPFOR on a temporary basis on
           hunter deconfliction prior to each training scenario that will take place in a designated
           hunting area.
           3.1.5.1.2. Should a negative encounter occur with a hunter or other armed person,
           treat the situation in the same manner as described in 3.1.5.3. and inform the BDOC
           as soon as practical to obtain law enforcement assistance.
       3.1.5.2. If OPFOR personnel are stopped by law enforcement while transporting
       simulated weapons/IEDs or airsoft guns on or off-base, the vehicle operator will
       immediately inform the patrolman of the presence of simulated weapons and their
       location in the vehicle. OPFOR personnel will keep their hands on the steering wheel
       while informing the patrolman of the presence of weapons.
       3.1.5.3. Should an OPFOR participant be approached by law enforcement personnel on
       or off-base while conducting training operations, they will immediately cease all activity
       and do the following:
           3.1.5.3.1. Slowly lower any simulated weapons in a non-threatening manner and
           raise their hands.
           3.1.5.3.2. Identify themselves and their vehicle, if applicable, as OPFOR personnel.
           3.1.5.3.3. Follow instructions from law enforcement personnel.
       3.1.5.4. Any negative encounter on or off-base will be reported to the Ops Sup as soon as
       practical once the situation has been de-escalated. An after action report will be filed by
       the lead-OPFOR member on scene and maintained in the OPFOR office for no less than
       6 months.
    3.1.6. Real-World Contingencies. Should a real-world contingency develop on-base that
    requires an armed 9 SFS response (i.e. an active shooter), the BDOC will notify the MC-12
    Ops Sup. Upon notification, the Ops Sup will relay information to OPFOR and aircrews.
    OPFOR will immediately take the following actions:
       3.1.6.1. Cease all training activity and remain in-place until released by 9 SFS
       3.1.6.2. Secure all simulated weapons and/or airsoft guns.         Ensure all participating
       personnel are free of weapons.
       3.1.6.3. Report any suspicious activity directly to the BDOC.
3.2. AIRSOFT GUN SAFETY AND ACCOUNTABILITY.
    3.2.1. Safety Training. OPFOR participants will not fire airsoft guns until they have
    accomplished a 9 RW/SE approved safety program and administered by the OPFOR
    contractor.
       3.2.1.1. Hunter Awareness. OPFOR participants will be briefed by the OPFOR Program
       Manager that select areas of Beale AFB are approved hunting areas and participants may
       encounter armed (i.e. shotguns, rifles, archery, etc.) hunters. If this occurs, the OPFOR
       Ops Sup must notify 9 SFS.
BEALEAFBI11-210 28 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                7


  3.2.2. General Guidelines:
     3.2.2.1. All personnel IVO airsoft gun firing will wear protective equipment as follows:
         3.2.2.1.1. Masks that cover the entire face and neck area.
         3.2.2.1.2. Clothing that prevents exposed skin on the arms and legs. Hand coverings
         are recommended, but optional.
     3.2.2.2. Do not aim above the chest.
     3.2.2.3. Do not fire at participants within a range of 10 feet.
     3.2.2.4. Airsoft guns will not be fired outside of specifically designated training areas as
     described in the OPFOR Read File.
     3.2.2.5. Personnel will only use biodegradable airsoft BBs.
  3.2.3. Safety Incidents
     3.2.3.1. If an injury occurs during the use of simulated weapons and/or airsoft weapons,
     immediately cease fire using the command “SAFETY, SAFETY, SAFETY” and instruct
     all personnel to point their weapons in a safe direction until the OPFOR controller
     instructs otherwise. If the injury occurs on base, contact security forces/Fire Dept/EMS
     via 911 or by calling 634-2131. If calling from a cellular telephone on base, the call will
     not be answered by Beale AFB 9th Security Forces, rather a California Highway Patrol
     tower in the local area. You must inform the dispatcher that you have an emergency
     situation on Beale AFB and ask to be transferred to 9th Security Forces. If the injury
     occurs off-base, call 911 and give location, nature of incident, and number of personnel
     needing attention.
     3.2.3.2. Any incidents or injuries regarding OPFOR use of airsoft guns will be reported
     IAW       9 RW Ground Safety incident procedures.
  3.2.4. Accountability and Storage of Airsoft Guns and Simulated Weapons.
     3.2.4.1. Simulated weapons and airsoft guns will be marked in a readily distinguishable
     manner that clearly identifies them to law enforcement personnel and is approved by 9
     SFS. Simulated weapons not marked IAW criteria will not be used.
     3.2.4.2. All airsoft guns and simulated weapons will be tagged with an identification
     number and inventoried at the end of each training day to ensure accountability.
     3.2.4.3. Airsoft guns will be stored in a designated area in the 489 RS. Airsoft guns are
     not considered weapons and do not need to be stored in the same manner as weapons.
 8                                                    BEALEAFBI11-210 28 FEBRUARY 2012


                                             Chapter 4

                           ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS

4.1. BEALE AFB LAND CONSERVATION AND PROTECTION. Within the confines of
Beale AFB multiple areas have been designated for limited use or are protected for various
reasons to include land conservation/reclamation and protection of endangered species. These
areas are overseen by 9 CES Asset Management Flight, Environmental Element. This chapter
defines procedures for approving OPFOR training area/site and how they will be used.
4.2. DESIGNATION OF OPFOR TRAINING AREAS. All proposed OPFOR training areas
on Beale AFB grounds must be reviewed by the 9 RW Facility Board and approved by 9 RW/CC
prior to use.
     4.2.1. Environmental Impact Analysis Requests. OPFOR will submit an AF Form 813,
     “Request for Environmental Impact Analysis” to 9 CES through 489 RS. Include with this
     request:
        4.2.1.1. Description and/or photograph of the area desired for use
        4.2.1.2. Overview of intended use (to include vehicle/foot traffic, use of simulated
        weapons/airsoft guns, and any potential impact to the area) and impact on training if use
        is denied.
     4.2.2. 9 CES will evaluate environmental impact and determine if the area may be used as
     requested or if there will be any restrictions. Restrictions will describe specifically which
     requested activities may or may not be conducted in the specified area.
     4.2.3. Designated Training Areas. All designated training areas will be included in a signed
     memorandum and posted in the OPFOR Read File. This memorandum will specifically
     designate activities that are permissible in each training area.
4.3. ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS TRAINING. All permanent OPFOR personnel will
receive training from 9 CES Asset Management Flight, Environmental Element to ensure
situational awareness of all protected areas and requirements prior to conducting OPFOR
activities. Guest OPFOR or augmentees will be briefed by the lead OPFOR member on
environmental consideration prior to the activity and will be responsible for the actions of all
team members.
4.4. DAILY RESPONSIBILITIES. OPFOR personnel must constantly be aware of the
environmental impact of their activity on base. The following must be considered during all
training events:
     4.4.1. Daily Suitability Check. The MC-12 Ops Sup will contact 9 CES to determine
     usability of training areas at the beginning of the day. Any unusable areas will be passed on
     to the OPFOR program manager.
     4.4.2. On-Scene Check. The lead OPFOR member on each team will assess the usability of
     the training area upon arrival. If use is limited (i.e., excessive mud due to wet weather), the
     Ops Sup will be informed and the area will be closed or designated as restricted use. Specific
     restrictions will be posted by the Ops Sup.
BEALEAFBI11-210 28 FEBRUARY 2012                                                      9


     4.4.3. Training Area Damage. Should any protected areas be damaged or violated by
     OPFOR members, the lead OPFOR member on site will report, in writing, the nature of
     the damage or violation to 9 CES. If OPFOR notice any damage or violations upon
     arrival, 9 CES will be notified as well.




                                       PAUL H. MCGILLICUDDY, Brigadier General,
                                       USAF Commander, 9th Reconnaissance Wing
 10                                             BEALEAFBI11-210 28 FEBRUARY 2012


                                   ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-2MC-12W, Volume 1, MC-12W, Air Crew Training, 5 June 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
