                                                           THE WING COMMANDER
                                                                    ON
                                                     EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AND TREATMENT



                                        Equal opportunity and treatment is every
                                        Airman’s responsibility. We are all entitled to
                                        live and work in an environment that values
                                        human dignity and is free from unlawful
                                        discrimination and sexual harassment.
                                        Promoting the principles of diversity, equal
                                        opportunity and treatment fosters an
                                        environment that encourages our Airmen to
                                        perform at their highest level and accomplish
                                        the mission. I will not tolerate unlawful
 discrimination based on race, color, national origin, religion, sex, and in the case of
 civilians, age, disabling conditions, and reprisal or sexual harassment in any form,
 whether deployed or at home station. I expect commanders and supervisors to act
 quickly and affirmatively to eliminate these behaviors. The men and women of Beale
 AFB are our most valuable asset. Therefore, we must create and sustain an
 environment that allows every member of Beale AFB to achieve their full potential.
 If you have questions or need help, our Equal Opportunity staff is available to assist
 you. I encourage everyone to take advantage of the assistance they offer.




                                                                PHIL A. STEWART, Colonel, USAF
                                                                Commander, 9th Reconnaissance Wing




BEALEAFBVA 36-1 15 August 2012                                                  OPR: 9 RW/EO
Supersedes BEALEAFBVA 36-1, 20 August 2010                                      Prescribing Directive: AFI 36-2706
Release: There are no release restrictions on this visual aid
