BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         BEALE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
9TH RECONNAISSANCE WING                                                      41-209

                                                                           11 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                                 Health Services

                                                 PUBLIC ACCESS DEFIBRILLATION (PAD)
                                                                          PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 9 MDG/SGH                                        Certified by: 9 MDG/CC (Col Jody Ocker)
                                                                                    Pages: 12



This instruction implements AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources. This instruction
outlines responsibilities and procedures for managing the implementation of the provisions for
the “Guidelines for Public Access Defibrillation (PAD) Programs in Federal Facilities.” This
publication requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act
of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain the records prescribed by this instruction is 10
USC 8013. Each form, format, or form letter prescribed by this publication which requires a
Privacy Act Statement (PAS), in accordance with AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, must have
the PAS incorporated thereon. Collected information is “For Official Use Only.” Requests to
release Privacy Act information to persons or agencies outside the DoD must be in accordance
with AFI 33-332. This supplement applies to all military and civilian personnel and commanders
of employees at Beale AFB who are employed in facilities or buildings at Beale AFB with an
Automated External Defibrillator (AED), or who serve as responders to medical emergencies.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functionals’ chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS).

Privacy Statement: This publication requires the collection and/or maintenance of information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, United States Code Section 8013,
Secretary of the Air Force and Executive Order 9397 (SSN 8013).
 2                                                  BEALEAFBI41-209 11 FEBRUARY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction adds an organizational box for forwarding of AED coordinator appointment
letters and AED coordinated reports. The Medtronic Physio-Control is named as the preferred
AED for use. Prohibited AEDs are identified.
1. PURPOSE. This publication provides guidance for the deployment of Automated External
Defibrillators (AEDs) within identified and approved facilities or buildings at Beale AFB. The
AED is to be used for an emergency response to Sudden Cardiac Arrest (SCA), as a means to
decrease premature mortality.       This instruction identifies and delineates the lines of
responsibility for the PAD Program, maintenance, protocols and documentation requirements.
2. SCOPE. This document describes the roles and responsibilities deemed necessary to ensure
the broadest training and application of the AED. The scope of training and use is applicable to
all federal employees and active duty personnel at Beale AFB. This document only applies to
AEDs procured under the PAD Program, and does not apply to AEDs obtained independently of
the 9th Medical Group.
3. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
     3.1. 9th Reconnaissance Wing Commander.
        3.1.1. Has overall responsibility for the PAD program. Ensures each organization has
        appointed individuals to meet the functional recommendations set forth in this
        instruction.
        3.1.2. Directs the 9th Medical Group Commander (9 MDG/CC) to ensure proper medical
        objectives and oversight are maintained for the PAD Program.
        3.1.3. Provides the necessary resources to ensure total organizational compliance with
        the PAD program.
     3.2. 9th Medical Group Commander.
        3.2.1. Assumes responsibility for all medical aspects of the PAD program.
        3.2.2. Shall appoint in writing a physician Medical Director and a Program Coordinator
        for the PAD program.
     3.3. PAD Program Medical Director.
        3.3.1. Directly oversees all medical aspects of the PAD Program and its participants. The
        Medical Director had direct medical oversight over the entire PAD program and its
        participants.
        3.3.2. Shall be a physician proficient in emergency medical services protocols, CPR and
        the use of AEDs in accordance with California state law.
        3.3.3. Shall assess quality assurance, compliance to developed protocols and
        continuation of proper training.
        3.3.4. Approves new AED requests, based on unit size and risk factors
        3.3.5. Critically reviews all AED data and actions taken within 5 duty days each time a
        PAD program AED is used.
BEALEAFBI41-209 11 FEBRUARY 2014                                                            3


  3.4. Program Coordinator.
     3.4.1. Acts as a liaison between AED site coordinators and Medical Director on matters
     pertaining to the AED Program.
     3.4.2. Makes recommendations to squadron commanders/general site managers for
     individuals to serve as site AED Coordinators.
     3.4.3. Coordinates and conducts site AED and program binder inspections on a semi-
     annual basis.
  3.5. Unit Commander.
     3.5.1. The commander of each unit shall appoint in writing an AED Coordinator who
     will serve as the primary liaison between the local organization’s AED program and the
     Medical Director (9MDG/SGH). A copy of this letter will be forwarded to the
     9MDG/SGH@beale.af.mil organization box.
  3.6. Site AED Coordinator.
     3.6.1. Should be the Facility Manager.
     3.6.2. Shall be certified in Basic Life Support (BLS) with AED.
     3.6.3. Shall be responsible for serviceability and accountability of all AED’s within the
     facility.
     3.6.4. Shall procure repair parts or consumables as needed.
     3.6.5. Ensures BLS training of the organization’s members via the unit commander’s
     established training policy.
     3.6.6. Once an AED has been used in an emergency situation, the AED
     coordinator/designee will immediately complete the AED Coordinated Report for
     Medical Director Form (BealeAFB Form 14), and forward it to the Medical Director for
     review at 9MDG/SGH@beale.af.mil. Medical Director should receive the completed
     report within 1 duty day of deploying the AED.
        3.6.6.1. Utilize Post-Use Procedure (Attachment 2) to ensure the AED is properly
        restocked, inspected and is ready for use.
        3.6.6.2. Consult with the Traumatic Stress Response (TSR) Team Chief to discuss
        possible debriefings for all individuals involved in providing assistance in an
        emergency situation IAW AFI 44-153, Traumatic Stress Response guidance.
     3.6.7. Shall perform periodic function checks/inventories as outlined in para 7 of this
     instruction.
  3.7. Responders.
     3.7.1. Responders are individuals within the local organization where the AED is
     deployed and who will respond to an emergency.
     3.7.2. Responders should follow the protocol in an emergency situation as depicted in
     the “AED Treatment Algorithm” (Attachment 3). AED Treatment Algorithm should be
     visible to the responder and will be placed next to each AED unit.
4                                                    BEALEAFBI41-209 11 FEBRUARY 2014


4. AED SELECTION.
    4.1. The preferred make for Beale AFB is Medtronic Physio-Control. Exceptions may be
    granted by the Medical Director following consultation with the Medical Equipment
    Management Office (MEMO) in cases where another model is preferred. There are various
    companies that offer different types of AEDs, each with a wide range of capabilities as well
    as price. It is best to use a standard model across the installation to reduce variability. This
    will facilitate training as well as logistical support/repair/maintenance.
5. AED LOCATION AND INSTALLATION.
    5.1. One of the two essential keys to surviving an Sudden Cardiac Arrest (SCA) is early
    defibrillation. Therefore, AEDs must be strategically placed throughout the organization
    based upon the time to initial shock of a victim of SCA.
       5.1.1. The PAD Site Coordinator will provide guidance to determine the number of
       AEDs that are necessary as well as their placement within your building.
       5.1.2. Factors to consider in determining AED placement include the following:
           5.1.2.1. Facility size.
           5.1.2.2. Number of employees in the facility.
           5.1.2.3. Number of people that may have public access to the facility on a daily basis.
           5.1.2.4. Average age of the facility occupants.
           5.1.2.5. Incidence of heart disease given the population at hand.
           5.1.2.6. Emergency response protocol that may already be in place for your facility,
           keeping in mind that immediate CPR and rapid application of an AED improve
           survival rates dramatically.
       5.1.3. In order to achieve complete area coverage within a building, an AED should be
       positioned no more than 1 minute’s travel time from any given point within the building.
       5.1.4. Optimal response time from the identification of a person down to the delivery of a
       shock (i.e. drop-to-shock) should be 4 minutes or less.
       5.1.5. AED accessory kits should be packed with the AED so that the responder will not
       lose time deciding what to take to the emergency. These kits should provide items such as
       gloves, scissors, razor, tape, extra electrodes and a barrier mask.
       5.1.6. AEDs should be stored in such a way that an alarm is activated when the unit is
       removed. The manufacturer, Medtronic Physio-Control, produces a housing unit with
       this capability, and it is recommended that this item be used to house the AED.
6. AED ACQUISITION.
    6.1. AED Site Coordinators will work with their base Medical Equipment Management
    Office (MEMO), DSN 368-4910, before purchasing AEDs to ensure base-wide
    standardization (AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support, para 7.28.). Medical Logistics is
    the only authorized purchasing agent on Beale AFB for AEDs as they are considered
    prescription-controlled items. Local policy is for AED purchase request for any unit on
    Beale AFB to be submitted via TIGERS Automated Request Form, with accompanying
BEALEAFBI41-209 11 FEBRUARY 2014                                                               5


  justification letter (Attachment 4). Contact MEMO for electronic copy of TIGERS
  Automated Request Form. PAD Site Coordinators will complete the forms and then
  coordinate the request through their Squadron Commander prior to submitting to Medical
  Logistics. The unit owning facility in which the AED is placed will be responsible to fund
  procurement of AED, consumables, and repair parts as needed.
  6.2. AEDs are considered medical devices; therefore, in a PAD program, plans and protocols
  must be approved by a supervising physician.
     6.2.1. All AED purchase requests must be reviewed and approved by the Medical
     Director. Once the Medical Director has approved the request and placement location of
     the AED, this becomes the authorizing prescription for procurement of the device(s).
     6.2.2. Prohibited AEDs.
         6.2.2.1. The procurement of AEDs by medical units (9 MDG, 940th Aerospace
         Medical Squadron) or for use by Emergency Medical Technicians in the Beale Fire
         Emergency Services flight (9 CES/CEF) under physician control for their own use in
         responding to emergencies isbeyond the scope of this instruction. All other base
         organizations are prohibited from procuring AEDs outside of the PAD program.
         AEDs which are not under medical supervision represent a liability to the base and
         the Air Force. Any organization currently in possession of a non-PAD program AED
         must immediately remove it. Organizations formerly in possession of prohibited
         AEDs are encouraged to apply for an AED through the PAD program
     6.2.3. The Beale Fire Emergency Services (BFES) flight AEDs.
         6.2.3.1. The BFES flight will create a standard operating procedure for AEDs and
         engage the 9 MDG for procurement, maintenance of units, and review of defibrillator
         data records as necessary. Following any use of a non-PAD program AED, the BFES
         flight will have the AED’s data downloaded by Medical Maintenance and reviewed
         by the PAD program Medical Director for quality assurance.
         6.2.3.2. If the BFES flight wishes to place defibrillators in staff or public areas, not
         solely for emergency responses, this instruction applies, and such a defibrillator
         would require procurement within the PAD program.
     6.2.4. PAD Program AEDs placed by Medical Units.
         6.2.4.1. Medical Units (9 MDG, 940th Aerospace Medical Flight) should utilize the
         PAD program if wishing to place AEDs in staff or public areas for use by individuals
         other than independently privileged medical providers or paramedics.
7. MAINTENANCE.
  7.1. Maintenance of PAD devices is a joint responsibility of PAD AED Site Coordinators
  and the 9 MDG/SGSME (MEMO).
  7.2. AED Site Coordinators.
     7.2.1. Shall ensure that a monthly inspection of each AED and its housing/environment
     is regularly accomplished and documented. Even if the manufacturer dictates less
     frequent inspections, site coordinators must inspect units at least monthly and document
     their findings. Use Beale AFB IMT 15 Automatic External Defibrillator Monthly
6                                                  BEALEAFBI41-209 11 FEBRUARY 2014


       Checklist (BEALEAFB Form 15). These inspection records must be maintained for the
       life of the equipment and until the device is turned in for disposition. Medical
       Maintenance (DSN 368-4910), will examine these records regularly during periodic
       maintenance visits to each AED site.
       7.2.2. Shall bring the device, if not functioning properly to Medical Maintenance to be
       assessed.
       7.2.3. Shall work within established inventory procedures to ensure that all devices can
       be accounted for on an annual basis.
    7.3. Biomedical Equipment (9 MDSS/SGSME).
       7.3.1. Shall generate a Historical Maintenance Record (HMR) for each AED present on
       Beale AFB within the PAD program and complete required documentation and
       registration of the device in accordance with the Safe Medical Devices Act. This HMR
       must be maintained by law until final disposition of the device.
       7.3.2. Shall be responsible for any maintenance beyond the Site Coordinator’s routine
       upkeep of the unit covered in the AED’s owner’s manual.
       7.3.3. Shall respond after actual events to download event data from the employed PAD
       AED and give said data to the Medical Director, or his/her designee.
       7.3.4. Shall serve as the point of contact for AED Site Coordinators and the manufacturer
       representatives concerning any problems with PAD AEDs, (to include device alerts and
       recalls from the manufacturer or other authorized agents).
8. QUALITY ASSURANCE.
    8.1. The Medical Director or designee will review all event summary sheets to assess quality
    of care. The summary sheets shall be maintained indefinitely in the office of the Director of
    Quality Services at the 9 MDG.
    8.2. Events will be presented to the Executive Committee of the Medical Staff at the 9 MDG
    by the Medical Director or designee.




                                            PHIL A. STEWART, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 9th Reconnaissance Wing
BEALEAFBI41-209 11 FEBRUARY 2014                                                             7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), Guidelines for Public Access
Defibrillation Programs in Federal Facilities, 18 January 2001
Public Law 106-505, Public Health Improvement Act of 2000, Title IV, Subtitle A, Cardiac
Arrest Survival Act; (H.R. 2498), 23 May 2000
Public Law 106-129, 42 U.S.C. 241, Healthcare Research and Quality Act of 1999, Section
7, 6 December1999
Marenco J., Wang P., et al: Improving Survival from Sudden Cardiac Arrest; The Role of the
Automated External Defibrillator. JAMA, pp. 1193 – 1200, 7 March 2001
Heartsaver AED Manual, American Heart Association, 2010.
AFI 41-209, Me senatorial dical Logistics Support, 30 July 2009
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 20 January 2012
AFI 44-153, Traumatic Stress Response, 29 August 2011
2010 American Heart Association Guidelines for Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and
Emergency Cardiovascular Care: Circulation. Volume 112, Issue 24 Supplement, 13
December 2005.
Prescribed Forms
BEALEAFB14, AED Coordinated Report for Medical Director
BEALEAFB15, Automatic External Defibrillator Monthly Checklist
Adopted Forms
TIGERS Automated Request Form, 27 November 2011
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AED—Automated External Defibrillator
AHA—American Heart Association
BLS—Basic Life Support
BMET—Biomedical Equipment Technician
CAB—Circulation, Airway, and Breathing
CPR—Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation
DOD—Department of Defense
EMS—Emergency Medical Services
EMT—Emergency Medical Technician
 8                                                   BEALEAFBI41-209 11 FEBRUARY 2014


MEMO—Medical Equipment Management Office
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SCA—Sudden Cardiac Arrest

Terms
Public—For the purpose of this document, “public” shall mean those areas open to the general
base population. Specifically, this document addresses public areas in which there is an
increased chance of encountering individuals suffering SCA.
Cardio—Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR). The act of providing respiratory ventilation and
heart (cardiac) compression by an external source. This most commonly is provided to an
individual whom is without both spontaneous respiration and heartbeat, and is provided by
someone capable of performing the required mechanical action. Along with early defibrillation,
early initiation of CPR is key to survival in SCA.
Basic Life Support (BLS).—A training program that teaches basic CPR techniques as well as
AED use.
Automated External Defibrillator (AED).—Commercially distributed in accordance with the
Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Capable of recognizing the presence or absence of
ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia, and is capable of determining, without
intervention by the user of the device, whether defibrillation should be performed. Able to
deliver an electrical shock to an individual upon determining that defibrillation should be
performed.
Public Access Defibrillators.—AEDs are strategically placed as part of the base plan and in
accordance with relevant Federal, Air Force and Beale AFB guidance. The 9 MDG will monitor,
maintain, inspect and coordinate, as appropriate, with third party service vendors for repairs or
inspection of PAD AEDs. However, any and all expenses incurred for repair, replacement of
parts or consumables will be the sole responsibility of the owning/using unit.
Ventricular Fibrillation.—An abnormal cardiac rhythm whereby the heart produces no
purposeful contractions. It is incompatible with life if not immediately treated (hereafter referred
to as SCA).
Pulseless Ventricular Tachycardia.—Another abnormal cardiac rhythm whereby the heart
produces inadequate circulation. It is incompatible with life if not immediately treated (hereafter
referred to as SCA).
Defibrillation.—The application of an electric shock, via a defibrillator, directly through a
person’s chest.
Sudden Cardiac Arrest (SCA).—The term used to describe an abrupt cessation of normal
cardiac function that typically results from ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular
tachycardia with rapid progression to death if not immediately treated.
Emergency Medical Services.—The term used to describe the rapid response team of medically
trained personnel to provide emergency medical assistance as necessary.
BEALEAFBI41-209 11 FEBRUARY 2014                                                         9


Perceived Medical Emergency. When circumstances exist whereby the behavior of an
individual leads a reasonable person to believe that the individual is experiencing a life—
threatening condition that requires an immediate medical response.
Federal Building.—A building or portion of a building leased or rented by a federal agency,
which includes buildings on military installations of the United States.
209
Harm. For purposes of this document, this term may include physical, non—physical,
economic and non-economic losses.
 10                                                BEALEAFBI41-209 11 FEBRUARY 2014


                                        Attachment 2
                                 POST-USE PROCEDURE

A2.1. In the event the AED is used, the PAD Site Coordinator will ensure the AED with
associated supply packaging is delivered to Medical Maintenance.
A2.2. Medical Maintenance will provide historical maintenance and a completed current
performance inspection procedure to the Medical Director.
A2.3. If available, a loaner AED will be provided for the facility while the Site Coordinator
ensures the following are accomplished with the used AED
   A2.3.1. Replace any used electrode pads, batteries, razor or gloves.
   A2.3.2. Inspect unused supplies for any damage and/or expiration dates
   A2.3.3. Ensure all supplies and accessories are present and in operating condition
A2.4. An AED inspection must be accomplished by the PAD Program Coordinator prior to the
AED being placed back in service.
BEALEAFBI41-209 11 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                  11


                                        Attachment 3
                         AED TREATMENT ALGORITHM

Figure A3.1 AED Treatment Algorithm.

                                    Unresponsive                                     High quality CPR
                         No breathing or no normal breathing
                                  (ie, only gasping)                              - Rate at least 100/min
                                                                                  - Compression depth at
                                                                                  least 2 inches
                                                                                  - Allow complete chest
                                                                                  recoil
                         Activate emergency response system                       - Minimize interruptions
                         Get AED or send second rescuer (if                       in chest compressions
                                 available) to do this.




                                Begin Chest Compressions
                                 (rate at least 100 per minute)




                          Apply Pads when AED ARRIVES




                                      Allow AED to
                                         analyze
                                    Shockable rhythm?

          SHOCK ADVISED                                             NO SHOCK ADVISED




                                                               Resume CPR immediately
              Give 1 shock                                    for 2 minutes. Check rhythm
              Resume CPR                                       every 2 minutes. Continue
            immediately for 2                                   until EMS providers take
                minutes                                       over or victim starts to move
 12                                              BEALEAFBI41-209 11 FEBRUARY 2014


                                       Attachment 4
                SAMPLE PAD REQUEST/AUTHORIZATION LETTER

Figure A4.1. Sample PAD Request/Authorization Letter.
                                                                                          DATE

MEMORANDUM FOR 9 MDSS/SGSL (MEMO)

FROM: 9 XX/XXXX (MSgt Safeman)

SUBJECT: Public Access Defibrillator Authorization Request

1. The 9 XX Squadron is requesting an AED in accordance with the BAFBI 41-209. We
typically have 100 to 200 members of the public guided through our section on tours and
visitations every week.

2. Our RC/CC is 505XXX and we have sufficient funds for purchase.




                                           IAM A. SAFEMAN, MSgt, USAF
                                           NCOIC, 9 XX/XXXX

Approve/Disapprove




                                           D.R. HIPPOCRATES, Col, USAF
                                           9 MDG/SGH
