BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       BEALE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
BEALE AIR FORCE BASE                                                       48-103

                                                                       30 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                         Aerospace Medicine

                                                 HAZARD COMMUNICATION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 9 AMDS/SGPB                                                     Certified by: 9 MDG/CC
                                                                        (Colonel Susan Jano)
Supersedes:   BAFBI 48-103, 27 January                                                Pages: 9
              2007


This instruction provides information specific to the implementation of AFI 90-821, Hazard
Communication, at Beale AFB. The purpose of the Hazard Communication (HAZCOM)
program is to minimize the incidence of chemically induced occupational illnesses and injuries

in the workplace by establishing guidance for training employees on the health and physical
hazards associated with, and proper preventive measures to be taken when, using or handling
hazardous chemicals in work area/shop(s). Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using an AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Changes of Publication: route AF Form 847s through your Group
Publications and Forms Managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
36-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised to include update program requirements and must be reviewed
completely.
 2                                                  BEALEAFBI48-103 30 NOVEMBER 2011


1. Workplace Communication Program.
     1.1. The workplace written hazard communication program will be maintained at each work
     area and include the following:
        1.2.1. Hazard Communication appointment letter.
        1.2.2. Copy of Air Force Instruction 90-821, Hazard Communication.
        1.2.3. Copy of this (BAFBI 48-103, Hazard Communication) publication.
        1.2.4. The work area shop chemical inventory.
        1.2.5. Hard copies of material safety data sheets (MSDS).
        1.2.6. AF Forms 3952 for all chemicals in a work center.
        1.2.7. Approved Shop Specific Hazard Communication Training Plan
        1.2.8. A list of all the non-routine tasks involving hazardous chemicals.
        1.2.9. Workers’ AF Forms 55 with documented annual HAZCOM training.
        1.2.10. A copy of all Bioenvironmental Engineering Surveys for the past 10 years, in
        accordance with AFI 91-301, AFOSH Program.
2. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS):
     2.1. The Bioenvironmental Engineering Element (BEE) maintains the MSDS master file
     containing all hazardous chemicals used at Beale AFB.
        2.1.1. This master file consists of the Hazardous Material Information Resource System
        (HMIRS) and Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Form 174,
        Material Safety Data Sheet, or equivalent forms.
        2.1.2. This MSDS information will be readily available to all workers through the
        HMIRS Online Web Application - a web-based system used by workers at industrial
        facilities to access electronic hazardous material documents that are assigned to specific
        work locations in each facility.
            2.1.2.1. Workers requiring access to HMIRS Online Web Application for MSDS’s
            will need to contact the shop’s appointed HAZCOM person for access.
     2.2. Workers desiring MSDS information will contact BEE to establish a mutually
     acceptable time during normal duty hours to review the MSDS at building 26180. BEE will
     review the MSDS with the worker and provide an explanation of the MSDS information.
     Emergency requests after normal duty hours will be directed to the BEE through Ambulance
     Services at 4 - 4444.
3. Employee Information and Training:
     3.1. Unit commanders will ensure supervisors of work areas using hazardous materials
     receive training using guidance found in AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7, ―Employee Information
     and Training.‖ These supervisors will be trained by Public Health and/or other formal
     training organization (i.e., maintenance trainers). Assistance with supervisor training is
     available through Public Health.
BEALEAFBI48-103 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                              3


   3.2. Supervisors will ensure subordinate workers are trained IAW AFI 90-821, paragraph
   2.7. This training may be provided by the supervisor, the organization occupational health
   coordinator, or other formal organization training structure (i.e., maintenance trainers).
   Supervisors should supplement this training to provide information on work area specific
   chemical hazards. Before presenting supplemental training, the supervisor will ensure the
   following appropriate agencies review the information for technical accuracy:
      3.2.1. BEE (9 MDOS/SGOAB) 4 - 2045.
      3.2.2. Public Health (9 MDOS/SGOAM) 4 - 4814.
      3.2.3. Safety (9 RW/SEG) 4 – 8881/4025.
      3.2.4. Fire Prevention (9 CES/CEF) 4 - 8675.
   3.3. The annual HAZCOM training will be documented on the individual’s AF Form 55,
   Employee Safety and Health Record, in CAMS, or the ESOH-MIS, IAW AFI 91-301, Air
   Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH)
   Program.
4. Hazardous Chemical Inventory:
   4.1. The hazardous chemical inventory for this area will be developed by the work area
   supervisor or designee. BEE will review this inventory IAW the assessment priority
   established in AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program.
      4.1.1. A hazardous chemical inventory will have: the name of the shop using these
      specific chemicals, the national stock number (NSN), a description/ title of the chemical,
      and draw amount.
   4.2. The supervisors will maintain the hazardous chemicals inventory in the work area as
   part of the written workplace plan (Attachment 2) and update it as necessary. When new
   chemicals are introduced into the work area, the supervisor will consult with the HAZMAT
   Pharmacy to determine if the chemical should be added to the inventory.
   4.3. The written work area/shop hazard communication program must include a list of
   hazardous chemicals known to be present (to include HAZWASTE, by-products, etc.) in a
   work area/shop (the list may be compiled for the work area/shop as a whole or for specified
   and readily distinguishable portions of a work area/shop). The identity that is used on the
   MSDS must be cross-referenced to the inventory. If the primary means of access to MSDS
   are electronic the work area/shop must have a non-electronic back-up (hard copy MSDS)
   method for viewing MSDS.
5. Contractor Operations:
   5.1. The Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO), with assistance from BEE and the work
   area supervisor, if requested, will advise contractors of hazardous chemicals they may
   encounter and protective measures needed in the normal course of their work in this work
   area. The ACO will also inform the contractor that MSDS information is available through
   BEE and provide information on the labeling system.
   5.2. At the pre-performance conference, and subsequently during the contract performance
   period. The requiring activity quality assurance evaluator will advise work area supervisors
   and AF employees monitoring the performance of contractors introducing/using/producing
 4                                                  BEALEAFBI48-103 30 NOVEMBER 2011


     hazardous materials/chemicals. The contractor is required to submit information on the use of
     hazardous materials according to the Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR) clause
     5352.223.9002, Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data, or
     subsequently adopted equivalent provision.
6. Non-Routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials:
     6.1. Non-routine tasks are:
        6.1.1. Those tasks included within a work area’s normal activities but performed
        infrequently; for example, cleaning a solvent tank and changing the solvent, or cleaning
        up spills.
        6.1.2. Temporary duties outside an individual’s normal Air Force Specialty Code or job
        series.
     6.2. The work area supervisor will list all non-routine tasks performed in this work area
     which involve hazardous material as part of the written workplace plan (Attachment 2). The
     supervisor will ensure work area operating instructions (OIs) thoroughly describe non-routine
     tasks, associated hazards, and controls, for the infrequent tasks performed in this work area.
     OIs do not need to be prepared if technical orders or other official documents adequately
     describe these tasks. Supervisors will ensure workers review these procedures before
     performing any non-routine tasks.
     6.3. When workers temporarily perform duties outside their normal jobs, the supervisor of
     the activity will ensure these workers receive the following training prior to beginning the
     activity:
        6.3.1. The initial Employee Information and Training Program described in AFI 90-821,
        paragraph 2.7, for workers not previously trained.
        6.3.2. Supplemental training, as necessary, on work area specific chemical hazards and
        associated controls.
     6.4. The supervisor of the activity will forward a letter to the worker’s formal supervisor
     describing the training conducted so the individual’s AF Form 55 can be updated.




                                      PAUL H. MCGILLICUDDY, Brigadier Gen, USAF
                                      Commander, 9th Reconnaissance Wing
BEALEAFBI48-103 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                           5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program, 15 September 2011
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 30 March 2005
AFI 91-301_ACCSup, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and
Health (AFOSH) Program, 4 December 1997
AFMAN 36-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) 29 CFR 1910.1200, Hazard
Communication, 6 August 2003
Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (AFFARS) clause 5352.233.9002,
Hazardous Material, 14 July 2011
Adopted forms
AF Forms 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Forms 3952, Chemical Hazardous Material Request Authorization Form

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACO—Administrative Contracting Officer
AFB—Air Force Base
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineering Element
CAMS—Core Automated Maintenance System
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
ESOH—MIS—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Management Information
System
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulations
HAZCOM—Hazard Communication
HAZMAT—Hazardous Materials
HMIRS—Hazardous Material Information Resource System
IAW—In Accordance With
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
 6                                          BEALEAFBI48-103 30 NOVEMBER 2011


OI—Operating Instruction
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Admin
BEALEAFBI48-103 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                7


                                         Attachment 2
       A.2.1. SHOP SPECIFIC HAZARD COMMUNICATION TRAINING PLAN

(SQUADRON/SHOP NAME)


    1. Purpose. Supervisors and employees who handle, use, or are potentially exposed to
        hazardous chemicals in the course of official Air Force duties must be provided training
        on the AF HAZCOM program, including training to address work area/shop-specific
        hazards prior to the use of hazardous chemicals. Supervisors will ensure the appropriate
        agencies (i.e., PH, BEE, base safety office, and fire department) review and approve this
        shop specific hazard communication training plan for technical accuracy and
        completeness prior to implementation in the work area/shop. Contract supervisors and
        contractors shall be trained according to their specific contract provisions.
    2.
2. Program Support Documents. See attachments 1 and 2 of shops Bioenvironmental
Engineering Survey for, ―Personnel protective equipment table, and hearing protection device
(HPD) worksheet‖ provided by the Bioenvironmental Engineering Element during the routine
industrial hygiene survey. Attachment 1 lists each process, task, potential hazards, personal
protective equipment required and limitations. Attachment 2 lists all hazardous noise producing
equipment, hearing protection worn, protection factor, dual hearing protection requirements, and
time limitations.

3. Shop POC. The shop’s appointed Hazard Communication person(s) is/are:

Primary ________________,


Alternate _______________.


4. HAZCOM Binder Elements.
The shop Hazard Communication binder is located in the _______________. The HAZCOM
written program includes:

a. Hazard Communication appointment letter
b. AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication
c. Beale AFB 48-103, Hazard Communication
d. Shop chemical inventory
e. Hard copy of MSDS (Location)
f. AF Forms 3952 (Location)
g. Approved shop specific HAZCOM training plan
 8                                                   BEALEAFBI48-103 30 NOVEMBER 2011


h. List of all non-routine tasks with reference of operating instructions or job safety analysis
i. Workers AF Forms 55 (Location)
j. Copies of all BEE surveys from last 10 years


5. HAZMAT Labeling. All hazardous chemicals will be labeled with a minimum:

a. Identity of hazardous chemical in container
b. National Stock Number (NSN)
c. Manufacturer name, address and phone number
d. Hazard warnings that include specific physical and health hazards. Also include target organ
effects of the chemical(s) in the container


6. MSDS. The shop’s MSDS binder is located _____________. All MSDS contain the following
basic information: Physical and chemical properties, physical and health hazards, routes of
exposure, precautions for safe handling and use, emergency and first-aid procedures, and control
measures of the listed hazardous chemicals.

7. Emergency Procedures: (Emergency procedures, such as recognition of a spill or accidental
chemical release (e.g., visual, odor, alarm) and escape procedures to include the locations of
emergency eye wash stations, showers, shop specific spill plan, and monitoring capabilities.)
(SEE SHOP SPECIFIC SPILL PLAN IF APPLICABLE) (any exposures/incidents must be
immediately reported to your supervisor)

8. Routine Task:

a. The following chemicals are used during (List Task):
 National Stock     Nomenclature      Manufacturer    Carcinogen?      Mutagen?      OSHA Expanded
    Number                                                Y/N           Y/N            Standard?
                                                                                          Y/N




b. Administrative Controls Used:

c. Engineering Controls Used:
BEALEAFBI48-103 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                            9


9. Non-Routine Task:

a. The following chemicals are used during (list Task):
National Stock   Nomenclature      Manufacturer    Carcinogen?   Mutagen?        OSHA
   Number                                             Y/N         Y/N           Expanded
                                                                                Standard?
                                                                                   Y/N




b. Administrative Controls Used:

c. Engineering Controls Used:

*Key: (see BEE routine survey letter for assistance)

OSHA Expanded Standard – Occupation Safety and Health Act chemicals with expanded
requirements

A1 – Confirmed Human Carcinogen

A2 – Suspected Human Carcinogen


M – Mutagens

T – Teratogens

9. Additional Training. Supplemental Training will be conducted when a new hazard or
chemical is introduced into the work area using the AF Form 3952, applicable MSDS and BEE
routine survey letter to meet this training requirement.




                                                   SHOP SUPERVISOR SIGNATURE BLOCK

2 Attachments:
1. Personnel Protective Equipment Table
2. Hearing Protection Device Worksheet
