BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         BOLLING AFB INSTRUCTION 32-9
HEADQUARTERS, 11TH WING                                                                24 MARCH 2005

                                                                                                 Housing

                                                                       UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 11 CES/CEH (TSgt Ronald Malone)                                           Certified by: 11 CES/CC
                                                                             (Colonel Dennis L. Jasinski)
                                                                                               Pages: 13
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFI 32-6005, 1 June 1998, Unaccompanied Housing Management, and
establishes policies and procedures for personnel residing in Unaccompanied Housing. It applies to all Air
Force and Army service members occupying unaccompanied government quarters on Bolling AFB. Indi-
viduals who fail to comply with the specific prohibitions and requirements contained in this instruction
violate a lawful general law, which my result in disciplinary action or prosecution under Article 92, Uni-
form Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
2                                                                 BOLLINGAFBI32-9 24 MARCH 2005


                                                 Chapter 1

                                           RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Overall Responsibilities. The Air Force will provide all maintenance, repair; refuse collection, dis-
posal, pest control, fire, security forces protection, grounds maintenance, and snow removal from streets.

1.2. Resident Responsibilities. Residents will maintain rooms in a neat and clean manner at all times.
This is a home away from home and must be maintained in a manner that promotes good health, morale,
and welfare. All residents must maintain good cooperative relationships with their neighbors and suite
mates in the cleanliness and upkeep of dormitories. As such, dormitory rooms are subject to inspection by
Consolidated Dormitory Manager Official (CDMO), supervisors, first sergeants, and commanders.
    1.2.1. Room standards. Each individual must adhere to the following.
    - Beds neatly made – linens will be laundered frequently.
    - Linens can be exchanged only if torn, ripped, or stained.
    - Carpet must be steam cleaned periodically and prior to terminating the room. (Steam cleaner can be
    obtained from the CDMO).
    - Privately owned rugs may be used in the rooms if they are flame retardant and in good condition.
    Vacuum cleaners may be obtained from the Bay Chief or the CDMO.
    - Baseboards, ledges, picture frames, closets, air conditioning/heater will be clean and free of dust/
    dirt.
    - Vents, lights, and electrical conduits should be clean and free of dust, dirt, water spots, stains, hand-
    prints, etc.
    - Doors (interior and exterior) must be clean and free of hand/foot prints, scuff marks
    - Windowsills, racks, and glass will be clean. Window screens will not be removed and stickers will
    not be affixed to windows.
    - Refrigerator will be cleaned inside and out. Freezer compartment will not have more than light frost
    buildup (defrost prior to 1/4 inch buildup.) Do not remove frost with a sharp instrument. Foods inside
    should be edible, wrapped, covered, and capped.
    - Rrefrigerator door gaskets/seals will be clean to prevent air leakage and/or excessive frost buildup.
    - Trash containers and ashtrays will be emptied prior to departing the room; replace the trash container
    liner.
    - Trash cans will be emptied in outside dumpsters, not in restrooms, dayrooms, or entry way trash
    cans. Trash will not be placed outside of room doors. Bay orderlies and housekeepers are not respon-
    sible for emptying resident’s trashcans.
    - Wall Lockers/Closets will be neat, clean, and secured. Clothing will be stored inside lockers and/or
    a chest of drawers. Dirty clothing will not be allowed to accumulate and will be placed in a laundry
    bag or other suitable container. NOTE: Open wall lockers are subject to inspection
BOLLINGAFBI32-9 24 MARCH 2005                                                                            3


   - Containers/Oversized Items such as boxes and/or luggage will not be stored on top of all units. These
   items must be kept in a designated storage area. Containers will be marked with the resident’s name,
   room number, and squadron.
   - Sinks will be clean. Faucets and knobs will be free of soap residue, lime-deposits, and grime.
   - Mirrors will be free of streaks and water spots.
   - Shower stalls to include floor, walls, door and curtain will be clean and free of grime, soap residue,
   and lime deposits. Commodes will be clean on the top, bottom, and surrounding floor area.
   - Rooms will be free of objectionable odors caused by unwashed clothing, shoes, bedding, or foods.
   All observable shoes will be clean and displayed neatly.
   - Light bulbs will be replaced as needed. Fluorescent bulbs can be obtained from the CDMO.
   - Only surge protected multiple outlet devices rated at less than 15 amps and so bearing the Underwrit-
   ers Laboratories (UL) or Factory Mutual (FM) will be used as extension cord devices.

1.3. Promotion. Residents must inform CDMO when they are promoted to the next grade.

1.4. Bay Orderly. Residents must be prepared to participate in weekly bay orderly duties when selected
by their First Sergeant. Bay orderly duties will take precedence over other obligations. Be available and
do not schedule appointment during the week of duty. Contact CDMO for bay orderly duties, standards
and scheduling.

1.5. Dorm Meetings. Residents will make every effort to attend dormitory meetings. Meetings will be
held at least quarterly but may be called at any time by DCMO or 11th Wing leadership.
4                                                               BOLLINGAFBI32-9 24 MARCH 2005


                                                Chapter 2

                                               BEHAVIOR

2.1. Disturbances. Respect your neighbors by keeping noise to a minimum. Televisions, stereos and
talking will be kept to a moderate level to not disturb other dormitory occupants. Doors to individual
rooms will be kept closed when such items are in use. Failure to comply may result in the items being put
in storage (first offense) and administrative and/or disciplinary action for subsequent offenses.
    2.1.1. Proper conduct in the dorm will be adhered to at all times. Actions on the part of one person
    will not in any way deny the rights of others (i.e., loud stereos, vandalism, rowdiness, or any conduct
    prejudicial to good order and discipline). Any disturbance that interferes with another resident’s rights
    will not be tolerated.
    2.1.2. Reporting Disturbances. If possible, approach the party that is creating the disturbance and
    inform them of the problem. If the disturbance is not eliminated, contact the Bay or CDMO. If a bay
    chief is not available and you have not been able to resolve the disturbance on your own, call 11 SFS
    (Law Enforcement Desk) or your first sergeant. Caution, do not approach individuals if you feel your
    safety will be jeopardized when there is an appearance of excessive alcohol consumption or rowdi-
    ness. Follow up reports should be submitted to the CDMO at the earliest possible date.

2.2. Guests/Visitors. Residents are responsible for the conduct of their guests/visitors at all times and
must remain with them at all times throughout the duration of the visit, except during restroom use.
Guests/Visitors are not permitted to use laundry room facilities. Residents will ensure guests conduct
themselves in a manner that will not bring discredit upon themselves or the United States Air Force. They
will be mindful of the other personnel in the building and refrain from actions that would otherwise dis-
turb or infringe upon other’s privacy. Overnight guests are not authorized. The following responsibilities,
procedures, and prohibitions govern the visitation of male/female personnel in the dormitories on Bolling
AFB and apply to all personnel. Violations will subject residents to punitive actions under the UCMJ.
    2.2.1. Key. The room key will not be given or loaned out under any circumstance.
    2.2.2. Children. Children (17 and under) are not permitted unless they are members of the resident’s
    immediate family, or are accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
    2.2.3. Day/TV Rooms. These rooms are for the entertainment, relaxation, and leisure of residents and
    their guests. Misuse or abuse of furniture, horseplay, and/or loud noise will not be tolerated. Residents
    will help in the housekeeping and cleanliness of these areas. Furniture, plants, decorations, and equip-
    ment will not be removed for any reason. Beverages and/or food may not be placed on game tables.

2.3. Visitation Hours. Visiting hours are 24-hours a day, unless limited by a first sergeant or Com-
mander.

2.4. Quiet Hours. Quiet hours are in effect 24 hours a day, seven days a week,due to various shift
schedules. Residents will display maximum consideration for each other by limiting noise levels so as not
to disturb other residents. If noise from a room can be heard from the hallway or balconies, it is consid-
ered too loud. The Bay Chief is the first point of contact to ensure that this policy is enforced. Contact
CDMO if the problem is not resolved or the Bay Chief is not available.
BOLLINGAFBI32-9 24 MARCH 2005                                                                        5


2.5. Offensive Language. Profane, suggestive, or abusive language is not permitted.

2.6. Drinking. Open containers of alcoholic beverages is strictly prohibited in any area outside of the
dorm room. Underage drinking by residents and guests is strictly prohibited and is punishable under the
UCMJ.

2.7. Parking. Motorcycles, mopeds, or any vehicle containing gasoline must be parked in an approved
designated vehicle or motorcycle parking area. Do not park cars in motorcycle spaces. The 11th Wing
Room of the Quarter parking space is reserved for the current award winner.

2.8. Vandalism. Witnesses to the damage of government or personal property must report it immediately
to CDMO or security forces. Residents who personally damage or participate in damaging property will
be held responsible for monetary damages and discipline under the UCMJ.
6                                                                 BOLLINGAFBI32-9 24 MARCH 2005


                                                 Chapter 3

                                          ROOM ASSIGNMENT

3.1. Assignment Policy. Unaccompanied permanent party personnel in the grades of E-1 through E-4 are
required to live in the dormitories. After 1 October 2003, Air Force policy requires E-4s with three years
Time In Service (TIS) to be moved out of unaccompanied quarters and receive BAH (unless they are
departing PCS or separating within the next six months).

3.2. Initial Inspection. The initial inspection is performed by the CDMO or designated representative
with the new resident to identify and document any discrepancies that exist in the room, on government
owned appliances and the government owned furnishings. Discrepancies if any, will be documented on an
AF IMT 228, Furnishing Custody Receipt and Condition Report, which will be maintained in the CDMO
in the resident’s file until termination of room. The initial inspection will be performed within the first two
(2) duty days of occupancy. A copy of this instruction must be maintained in each room. Residents are
responsible for reading and adhering to the policies and procedures contained herein. .

3.3. Government Owned Furniture and Appliances. The furniture and appliances are for use in the
specific room assigned and will not be removed, disassembled, or used elsewhere without specific written
authorization from the CDMO. During the initial inspection of the room, an inventory of the contents and
conditions of all government owned furniture and appliances will be taken by the resident and a CDM
staff member. The contents and condition will be annotated on an AF IMT 228, Furnishing Custody
Receipts and Condition Report, and acknowledged by the resident’s signature. Government furniture will
not be disassembled.

3.4. Liability for Damages. Under Federal Law 10 USC 2775 and AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey
for Air Force Property, residents are liable and accountable for loss or damages to the room, furnishings,
or appliances. Liability includes the abuse or negligence by the member or guest.
    3.4.1. Heel and Sole Dressing/Boot Polish can stain carpets and floors. Use generous amounts of
    newspaper or plastic sheeting to protect floors and furnishings.

3.5. Pictures. Residents may display works of art, pictures, etc., on room walls if they add to the room
décor and are in good taste. Pictures will be suitably framed and may be fastened to the wall by drilling
screw fasteners (keep holes in the walls to a minimum). Posters, etc, must be neatly mounted and in good
taste. Nothing will be glued to the walls. The open display of pornographic, nude men or women, inflam-
matory material is strictly prohibited. Profanity or lewd messages in either word or picture symbols or
pictures that may be offensive due to race, creed, sex, or national origin detracts from the good order, dis-
cipline, or morale of members. Displaying this type of material can lead to complaints concerning nonver-
bal sexual harassment.
Stickers on walls, mirrors or doors are prohibited.

3.6. Weapons. Prohibited items include, but are not limited to:
- Firearms cannot be stored on Bolling Air Force Base.
BOLLINGAFBI32-9 24 MARCH 2005                                                                              7


- Switchblades, gravity knives of any description, or knives with blades exceeding four (4) inches (other
than normal kitchen knives).
- Compound bows and arrows.
- Explosives.
- Martial arts weapons (unless required in martial arts training – if so, weapon must be secured and out of
sight in the room).

3.7. Pets/Animals. Animals/pets are not permitted in the dormitories. Small tropical fish are authorized.
Aquariums cannot exceed one 30-gallon tank. ABSOLUTELY NO POISONOUS OR HAZARDOUS
PETS may be kept or brought into the dormitory at any time.

3.8. Telephone/Cable TV Service. These transactions are between the resident and the respective com-
pany. Altering and/or tampering with existing cable television or telephone lines constitute fraud
and are punishable under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
   3.8.1. Telephone/Cable TV Reimbursement. Government directed moves from one dorm room to
   another by the CDM Office entitles the resident to reimbursement of cable reconnection and reinstal-
   lation of a commercial telephone line. To receive reimbursement, provide the Housing Management
   Office a copy of the telephone/cable bill indicating the reconnection charge and a copy of the letter
   directing the move.

3.9. Room Modification. Due to the possibility of damage to government quarters permanent modifica-
tions will not be made to a room. Installing wallpaper painting walls or installing shelves, etc., is prohib-
ited. Drilling small holes into the wall is acceptable to hang pictures.
8                                                               BOLLINGAFBI32-9 24 MARCH 2005


                                                   Chapter 4

                                            MAINTENANCE

4.1. CE Responsibilities. The 11 Civil Engineering Squadron (CES) has the primary responsibility for
maintaining Air Force dormitories. It is the resident’s responsibility to report all safety and maintenance/
repair discrepancies requiring CES response to the CDMO. Initiate maintenance/repairs by contacting the
CDMO during normal duty hours. After normal duty hours, annotate non-emergency requests on the
24-hour maintenance log located on the CDMO door. In the event of an emergency after normal duty
hours (Bolling residents only), call 11 CES Customer Service. The two categories of maintenance service
are:
    4.1.1. Emergency: A response time of one (1) hour and must be completed within 24-hours and is cat-
    egorized as follows:
       Plumbing                       Electrical                             Structural
       No water                       No power to quarters                   Broken Window**
       Broken water line              Bare wires                             Heating/Air Conditioning
       Broken sewer lines             Smoke detector inoperable              A/C not operating*
       Backed-up sewer lines          Short circuit with sparking            Heat not operating*
       Stopped-up commodes                                                   Lock Failure
       Excessive water leaks (1 gal/hr)


       *Note 1--Base plant must be operating at Heating/Air Condition (seasonal)
       ** Note 2--If only one pane of a double-paned glass window is broken, the job will be classified
        as routine.
    4.1.2. Routine: All other work not classified as emergency. The 11 CES must respond to and complete
    routine service calls within 30 calendar days from receipt of request.
BOLLINGAFBI32-9 24 MARCH 2005                                                                            9


                                                Chapter 5

                               FIRE PREVENTION/CONTINGENCIES

5.1. Evacuation. Residents must be familiar with the evacuation fire evacuation operating instructions
and the emergency evacuation plan (located on each floor’s bulletin board).

5.2. Evacuation Rally Point. After evacuating the building, residents must meet in the designated loca-
tion to report accountability. DO NOT LEAVE THE AREA until you have been accounted for by the
senior fire official, bay chief, CDMO staff or any ranking member on scene.

5.3. Fire Suppression and Detection Systems. It is illegal to tamper with fire detectors, alarm pull
boxes, fire sprinkler, fire extinguishers or render them inoperative. If a smoke detector beeps the battery
needs to be changed. Contact the CDMO for battery replacement. Be sure to test the alarm after installing
a new battery. Fire extinguishers will not be used for anything other than their intended purpose.

5.4. Flammable Items. Open flame burners (such as candles or incense) and flammable items are pro-
hibited from use in dormitories.

5.5. Smoking. Smoking is only permitted in rooms designated as smoking rooms or designated areas
outside of each dormitory. Smoking in bed is absolutely forbidden at any time.

5.6. Space Heaters. The use of space heaters is strictly prohibited unless approved by the CDMO staff
(due to central heating problems in individual rooms or the entire building).

5.7. Fire Sprinkler System. DO NOT TAMPER WITH OR HANG ITEMS FROM THE FIRE
SPRINKLER SYSTEM. Hanging items from the fire sprinkler system causes sprinkler to release which
results in flood damages. Residents will be held monetarily liable for any damages caused by this negli-
gence.

5.8. Safe Rooms. Each dormitory room has been designated as a safe room by CDMO. Once notified of
a Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) or accidental chemical release incident, all resident need to stay
in their rooms until the all clear is made by CDMO or the 11th Wing Command Post. Ensure the following
is available.
- Adequate food and drinking water.
- Batteries for radios and flashlights.
- Safe room materials (plastic sheeting and tape).
- Refer to BAFB Pamphlet 10-4, Protective Actions for Hazardous Material Release and           Weapons of
Mass Destruction (WMD), for more information on WMD and safe room procedures.
10                                                               BOLLINGAFBI32-9 24 MARCH 2005


                                                 Chapter 6

                                                SECURITY

6.1. Key Control.
     6.1.1. Secure valuables, lock bathroom and kitchenette doors at all times. Residents must lock room
     doors upon departure.
     6.1.2. Report any unauthorized or suspicious person in the dormitory area to 11 SFS, Law Enforce-
     ment Desk, and the CDMO staff immediately.
     6.1.3. Report theft/loss of personal and/or government property to 11 SFS (Law Enforcement Desk).

6.2. After Duty Hours Lock-Outs. Residents who are locked out of their rooms after duty hours must.
- Contact the 11 SFS LE desk at 202-767-5000, who will notify the appropriate first
sergeant.
- The first sergeant will personally assist or select an appropriate noncommissioned officer (NCO) to
sign out the master key from the lodging office.
- The first sergeant will then inform the lodging clerk of who will be responding to sign out the key (res-
idents cannot sign out the key).
- The first sergeant or designated NCO will respond and open the door for the resident.
     6.2.1. Lock Failure. A lock failure is defined as a situation when a lock fails to open due to a mechan-
     ical problem that must be corrected by a CE locksmith. If this occurs, refer to Section 4.1.1.

6.3. Replacement Keys. Contact the CDMO for replacement keys the following duty day. Residents will
be charged $5.00 for the first replacement key and $15.00 for each subsequent key. Collected money will
be placed in the dormitory council treasury.
BOLLINGAFBI32-9 24 MARCH 2005                                                                          11


                                               Chapter 7

                        TERMINATING UNACCOMPANIED QUARTERS

7.1. Terminations of Quarters. All residents who are vacating the Dormitory for whatever reason must
clear their quarters with the CDMO.

7.2. Financial Solvency. You must demonstrate your ability to move off base (financial and dormitory
obligations are in order). Residents should contact the Family Support Center to develop a financial plan
with a counselor.

7.3. Approval to Reside Off-Base. Commanders or first sergeants must endorse off-base moves (excep-
tions: residents who are in PCS status, or separating, see section 7.7.). Residents can become eligible to
reside off base and collect Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) for various reasons (see sections 7.4. and
7.6.). Once approved, residents must make plans to move within 30-days. Contact the Housing office
located in building 16 for information on off base housing opportunities.

7.4. Senior with 3 Years TIS. Residents in this category must contact the CDMO ASAP. Refer to sec-
tion 3.1.

7.5. BAH Waiting Lists. The BAH list is a voluntary program prioritized by current rank and Date of
Rank (DOR). When the overall base dormitory occupancy rate exceeds 90% CDMO personnel may elect
to activate the BAH waiting list and residents at the top of the list will be notified that they can move.
   7.5.1. Residents who wish to be on the BAH list must first request a BAH eligibility letter from the
   CDMO. The DOR on the BAH eligibility letter must be confirmed by the first sergeant or commander
   and returned to CDMO.
   7.5.2. Selected residents must give their intentions to move to CDMO personnel within 7- work days.
   7.5.3. CDMO will move down to the next person on the list if selected residents fail to give the 7-day
   notice or are in TDY/leave status.

7.6. Acquiring Dependents.
   7.6.1. Residents at the 20th week of pregnancy may move. An AF IMT 422, Physical Profile Report,
   stating that the member is at the 20th week is required from a medical authority. Pregnant members
   may request to move 30–days prior to birth due to medical reasons.
   7.6.2. Recently married residents must provide a copy of their marriage certificate to CDMO and the
   Housing Office before moving. With commander or first sergeant endorsement residents planning
   marriage may request to move 30-days prior to their marriage date.
   7.6.3. Residents who have acquired legal dependents (family members or adoption) may request to
   move. Contact the Housing Office and CDMO.
   7.6.4. If none of the above occurs residents must move back into the dormitory.
12                                                              BOLLINGAFBI32-9 24 MARCH 2005


7.7. Other Reasons for Vacating the Dormitory. Personnel in PCS or separation must set a date for
clearing their room with the CDMO. CDMO will not sign off on out-processing checklists unless the
room is empty and in inspection standards.

7.8. Base Housing. Residents who plan to move into accompanied base housing must clear their room
with CDMO prior to occupying their new quarters.

7.9. Termination Procedures.
     7.9.1. Pre-Inspection. This inspection is designed to assist resident in preparing room for final
     inspection. It includes a review of checkout procedures and offers the opportunity to answer any ques-
     tions and/or concerns. During this inspection, the CDMO staff member takes inventory of government
     owned furnishings and appliances and identifies damages above and beyond normal fair wear and
     tear.
     7.9.2. Final Inspection. This inspection is conducted when linen is returned to CDMO and the room,
     furnishings, and appliances are clean and ready for inspection. All Government owned furnishings
     and appliances will be accounted for and room keys turned in upon clearance of room. THE
     RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINAL CLEARANCE OF THE DORM ROOM RESTS SOLELY
     WITH THE RESIDENT. Upon satisfactory clearance, an AF IMT 291, Unaccompanied Quarters
     Assignment-Termination Record, will be issued. Residents must hand carry the form to 11 CES/CEH
     (Housing Management Office) for BAH processing. The effective date for BAH is the date indicated
     on the AF IMT 291. Residents who are vacating due to PCS or separation will not receive an AF IMT
     291.
BOLLINGAFBI32-9 24 MARCH 2005                                                                     13


                                             Chapter 8

                                   ROOM OF THE QUARTER

8.1. Room of the Quarter. Once a quarter, a resident is recognized for “Outstanding Room of the Quar-
ter” This program is administered by the Wing Commander. The Wing Commander and or designated
representative will inspect the nominated rooms; the commander or designated representative will make
the selection.



                                             DUANE A. JONES, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 11th Wing
