BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                                BOLLING AIR FORCE BASE
HEADQUARTERS, 11TH WING                                                         INSTRUCTION 48-1
                                                                                           19 APRIL 2001

                                                                                      Aerospace Medicine

                                                           RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 11 MDOS/SGOAB (MSgt McNeil)                        Certified by: 11 MDOS/CC (Lt Col Siniscalchi)
Supersedes BAFBI 48-1, 31 Mar 95                                                            Pages: 8
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFOSH Std 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program and it defines organiza-
tional, supervisory, and individual responsibilities. It also establishes procedures for proper issue, use,
storage, and cleaning of respirators. It is applicable to all assigned and attached units and personnel who
require respiratory protection equipment from this unit.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction further streamlines the respirator selection, issue, and usage on Bolling AFB. It also
reflects the new changes to AFI 48-137 regarding painting with polyurethane paints. New guidance
regarding the wear of contact lenses with respirators is also incorporated into this instruction.


1. General Information:
   1.1. This instruction provides local guidelines required to conduct an acceptable base-level respira-
   tory protection program. The Air Force guide for mandatory protection is AFOSH Std 48-137.
   1.2. Commanders, Staff Agency Chiefs, supervisors and workers must work together to ensure cor-
   rect steps are followed to issue, clean, use, and store respirators. Personnel must be trained in the use
   of each type of respirator required.
   1.3. The 11th Medical Group's Bioenvironmental Engineering Services (BES) has sole authority,
   beyond published Technical Orders, in determining whether respiratory protection is required or rec-
   ommended to prevent the worker from being exposed to toxic levels of materials. Workers who have
   been required or recommended by BES to wear respirators will be enrolled in the base Respiratory
   Protection Program. BES will select the type of respirator required based on a hazard evaluation. Only
   respirators approved by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) will be
   authorized. For emergencies, BES personnel can be reached after duty hours through 11 WG/CCP
   (Command Post) or the 11th Medical Group's Acute Care Desk.
2                                                                 BOLLINGAFBI48-1 19 APRIL 2001


    1.4. Respirators will be ordered through 11th Supply Squadron/LGSS by required workplaces after
    BES specifies the type of respirator. Each person must have his or her own respirator for those jobs
    that regularly require such protection. Workers may share a common-use respirator when it is used for
    emergency rescue, spill cleanups, short-term on-the-job training orientation, or when respirators are
    used less than once a week non-routinely.
    1.5. Air Force employees in Air Force workplaces will wear no elective, voluntary use or privately
    procured respirators. Respirators will either be required according to applicable directives or recom-
    mended (after evaluation) by BES. However, filtering face piece devices may be worn at the discre-
    tion of an Air Force employee, strictly for comfort purposes. Workers who choose to wear filtering
    face piece devices will not be placed on the base Respiratory Protection Program. BES does not con-
    sider filtering face pieces respirators, and they are defined as the type of respirator which has a face
    piece made entirely of filtering or absorbing material. These do not have changeable filters or car-
    tridges and are usually disposable. They do not have an inhalation valve and may or may not have an
    exhalation valve. Personnel who choose to wear filtering face piece devices must receive initial and
    updated training from their supervisors as outlined in AFI 32-2001, to explain the limitations of these
    devices.
    1.6. There is one exception to this policy for filtering face pieces. Those workers in medical special-
    ties, who have been evaluated by BES as having a significant risk of exposure to tuberculosis during
    the performance of medical duties, will be enrolled in the Respiratory Protection Program.

2. Requirements of Respiratory Protection Program (RPP):
    2.1. Each worker on the RPP must be medically cleared for respirator use before a respirator may be
    worn. Medical examination requirements, as determined by the 11th MDG Aeromedical Council, will
    ensure the worker can safely use respiratory equipment. The 11th MDG Physical Exams office will
    schedule medical examinations.
    2.2. When examinations are passed, each worker must be fitted with a respirator and trained before
    starting to work on a job that requires the respirator to be worn. BES will accomplish annual fit testing
    and training, but more frequent fit testing for some workers may be accomplished.
    2.3. Each worker must receive initial and annual education from BES on the respiratory protection
    program, use of respiratory protection equipment, and all workplace hazards.
    2.4. All duty sections that are on the respiratory protection program shall establish a work place oper-
    ating instruction (OI) on respiratory protection, which will be approved by BES. A sample Operating
    Instruction is available in AFOSH Standard 48-137.
    2.5. The Naval District of Washington (NDW) Fire Department will provide training on the use and
    maintenance of self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA). BES will provide fit testing for workers
    who require the use of a SCBA.
    2.6. Only soft and gas permeable contact lenses are permitted to be worn while performing any duties
    requiring the use of a respirator.
    2.7. The only type of respirator an individual with facial hair shall be permitted to wear is a sup-
    plied-air, positive pressure type or a powered air-purifying respirator with a hood or shroud. The res-
    pirator shall be operated in the continuous flow mode, shall not have a tight-fitting face piece, and
BOLLINGAFBI48-1 19 APRIL 2001                                                                                3


   shall not have an anti-aspiration device that contacts the face or neck. The unit commander, director,
   or functional manager will decide if such a respirator will be purchased for bearded workers.
   2.8. If the worker is using polyurethane paint with an isocyanate (monomer or prepolymer), the fol-
   lowing is required unless otherwise approved by BES.
       2.8.1. Use a supplied air respirator for spray painting or touch-up with polyurethane paints
       indoors. When spray painting in an open area, such as a hangar, all unprotected personnel shall be
       removed.
       2.8.2. Use a full-face piece air-purifying respirator with organic vapor cartridges and high effi-
       ciency particulate air (HEPA) filters when painting with polyurethane paints ONLY when the
       painting is performed outside for touch-up or stenciling in small increments. If outside spray
       painting exceeds touch-up or stenciling quantities, the worker shall wear a supplied air respirator.
       2.8.3. Use a full-face piece, air-purifying respirator with organic vapor cartridges and HEPA fil-
       ters when performing roll-on or brush painting applications regardless of the painting location.
       2.8.4. Touch-up painting normally does not exceed five minutes of spray time per hour. Aircraft
       touch-up operations are defined in T.O. 42A-1-1, paragraph 3-1c.
   2.9. Emergency Escape: Some workplaces that use or store very toxic materials may have emergency
   escape respirators to protect personnel during egress from an accidental release. These respirators
   shall be hood-type respirators or the equivalent that do not require fit testing. Medical exams or fit
   testing are not required for the personnel that would use these emergency respirators, and workers will
   not be enrolled onto the RPP. However, the supervisor should ensure that all-potential users are
   trained in the use of these respirators.
   2.10. Air National Guard and Air Reserve: Air National Guardsmen and Air Force Reservists who
   perform training at Bolling AFB may have duties that require respiratory protection, as determined by
   BES. These personnel shall be entered into the base RPP and be initially and annually trained and
   fit-tested by BES. Medical exams are required first, and may be provided by the member's unit if
   approved by the 11th MDG Aeromedical Council.

3. Responsibilities:
   3.1. 11th MDG Bioenvironmental Engineering Services (BES) will:
       3.1.1. Identify and evaluate work areas for substances present that may require respiratory protec-
       tion to be used. Select the type of respirator required, such as airline, full-face, half-face, or emer-
       gency type. Evaluate use of respirators based on actual or calculated air contaminant
       concentrations. Review and approve Operating Instructions on the use and maintenance of respi-
       rators. Check on the use of respirators in the actual work setting during routine surveys.
       3.1.2. Do initial and annual fit-testing and training of each worker on the use and maintenance of
       the respirator. This training is required by AFOSH Standard 48-137 and will cover the topics that
       apply to each work section or task. Document the training on the AF Form 2767, Occupational
       Health Training and Protective Equipment Fit Testing Record, maintained in the industrial case
       file for the appropriate workplace. Give an AF Form 2772, Certificate of Respirator Fit Test, to
       each worker that satisfactorily completes fit testing and is trained to use respirators. The wearer
       will maintain this with his/her AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record.
4                                                                 BOLLINGAFBI48-1 19 APRIL 2001


       3.1.3. Conduct fit-testing for all users of SCBAs in coordination with the Fire Department.
       3.1.4. Coordinate with supply on controlling the issue of all respirators and components.
    3.2. 11th MDG Aerospace Medicine Flight, under the auspices of the 11th MDG Aeromedical Coun-
    cil, ensures a physician makes the determination that a worker is physically able to wear a respirator
    using an approved medical surveillance protocol for respirator users.
    3.3. 11th MDG Public Health Element (PH) will ensure all respirator users have been identified to
    receive baseline and annual physical examinations.
    3.4. 11th MDG Physical Exams office (PES) will schedule and perform medical surveillance of res-
    pirator users required by this regulation and applicable federal standards.
    3.5. 11th WG/SEG (Ground Safety) will refer any suspected problems on respirator usage discovered
    during their inspections to BES.
    3.6. NDW Fire Department will:
       3.6.1. Conduct respiratory protection training for fire protection personnel IAW AFI 32-2001 (or
       an equivalent Navy Regulation), and for other Air Force organizations on Bolling AFB using
       SCBAs as needed.
       3.6.2. Ensure required maintenance for SCBAs is performed by the respirator manufacturer or
       appointed individual(s) trained and certified by the manufacturer to conduct such maintenance.
       3.6.3. Forward to BES copies of sampling results of any supplied breathing air tests no later than
       two weeks after receipt of results.
    3.7. Supervisors of workers that require respiratory protection (see paragraph 1.6. for exception) will:
       3.7.1. Comply with AFOSH Std 48-137, and have a reference copy in each work area where res-
       pirator use is required.
       3.7.2. Write and use a workplace operating instruction (OI) for each area that requires respirators.
       The instruction must be detailed and clearly written so all employees can understand. It must have
       descriptions of the job(s) that require respirators; the cleaning, maintenance, and storage of respi-
       rators; and individual responsibilities for use, handling, testing, and wear of the respirator in
       accordance with the manufacturers directions. BES must review the instruction before it is final-
       ized.
       3.7.3. Have a maintenance and cleaning program for common-use respirators. Common-use res-
       pirators must be cleaned after each use.
       3.7.4. If common-use respirators are used, make sure that sufficient types and sizes of respirators
       are available to fit all employees that need the protection.
       3.7.5. Make sure that all employees who use respirators are physically qualified and have a cur-
       rent occupational health examination in their medical records prior to beginning duties requiring
       the use of a respirator and annually thereafter.
       3.7.6. Ensure that all employees have been trained and fit-tested by BES and have been issued an
       AF Form 2772, prior to beginning duties requiring the use of a respirator.
BOLLINGAFBI48-1 19 APRIL 2001                                                                          5


     3.7.7. Coordinate with BES for guidance on the procurement of respirators. Ensure the appropri-
     ate respirator for which the individual was fit-tested is ordered and received. These are listed on
     the AF Form 2772.
     3.7.8. Annotate the "Employee's Work Folder" for civilian employees to show that fit-tests and
     respirator training have been completed. The completion date, types, and size of respirator(s)
     approved must be recorded.
     3.7.9. Annotate military personnel training on AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and
     Recurring Training, and file in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record, to show that fit-test-
     ing and respirator training have been completed. The completion date, type, and size of respira-
     tor(s) approved must be recorded.
     3.7.10. Provide a clean and proper storage area for respirators as outlined in AFOSH Std 48-137.
     Respirators will NOT be stored in toolboxes, dusty areas, chemical storage areas, or where they
     are exposed to direct sunlight.
     3.7.11. Check employees closely to make certain no condition exists that will prevent a good seal
     between the face and respirator. These conditions include chewing gum, having a beard or mus-
     tache in areas where the face piece contacts the face, having excessive sideburns, lack of dentures,
     eyeglass frames that interfere with an acceptable seal, etc. Vision correction inserts are available
     for full-face respirators.
     3.7.12. Provide all employees annual refresher education on workplace hazards and protective
     equipment IAW appropriate AFOSH standards.
     3.7.13. Annotate all initial and annual workplace hazard and respiratory protection equipment
     training for military and civilian personnel on an AF Form 55, or an equivalent computer gener-
     ated training record.
     3.7.14. Forward to BES copies of sampling results of any supplied breathing air tests no later than
     two weeks after receipt of results.
  3.8. Employees who are required to wear respirators will:
     3.8.1. Be familiar with workplace OI for the work areas that require respirators.
     3.8.2. Have AF Form 2772 available for inspection at all times.
     3.8.3. Inspect each respirator before using to make sure all parts are working properly. Any parts
     that are damaged, worn out, or missing must be replaced.
     3.8.4. Inspect, clean, and place the respirator in its proper storage area after each use.
     3.8.5. Not use parts from another type of respirator to repair a respirator. AFOSH Std 48-137 does
     not allow any other parts to be used other than the approved manufacturer's replacement parts.
     3.8.6. Use only the type and respirator approved on the AF Form 2772. Use the NIOSH or MSHA
     approved filters and/or canisters for each type of work and respirator.
     3.8.7. Be sure that airline and emergency respirators are used IAW the guidance from the supervi-
     sor and the written workplace OI.
     3.8.8. Not chew gum, have facial conditions that could prevent the mask from sealing (i.e. beard),
     or wear headgear that might interfere with the respirator seal.
6                                                                  BOLLINGAFBI48-1 19 APRIL 2001


       3.8.9. Attend all mandatory examinations, tests, and training IAW this Instruction and applicable
       AFOSH standards.

4. Training:
    4.1. BES will provide: The initial training of supervisors who have the responsibility of overseeing
    work activities of one or more persons who must wear respirators. BES will repeat training, when a
    supervisor has a permanent change of station or becomes supervisor of a different workplace. Docu-
    mentation of training will be made on AF Form 55 or equivalent computerized training records. The
    training will include the following subjects as a minimum:
       4.1.1. Basic respiratory protection practices.
       4.1.2. Nature and extent of respiratory hazards to which workers under supervision may be
       exposed.
       4.1.3. Principles and criteria for the selection of respirators used by workers under their supervi-
       sion.
       4.1.4. Supervisor’s annual training of respirator wearers.
       4.1.5. Fitting and issuing of respirators.
       4.1.6. Inspection, maintenance, cleaning and storage of respirators.
       4.1.7. Use of respirators, including monitoring of use.
       4.1.8. Publication(s) pertaining to respirator use, including the preparation of a workplace OI.
    4.2. Respirator Wearer: BES will provide initial training to respirator wearers. Initial training shall be
    repeated whenever an individual arrives at Bolling AFB from a permanent change of station and their
    duties require respiratory protection. Documentation of the initial training will be made on AF Forms
    55 and 2767. Initial and annual training shall include the following elements:
       4.2.1. Instruction in the nature of the hazards, whether acute, chronic, or both, and an explanation
       of what may happen if the respirator is not used.
       4.2.2. Explanations on why other controls (such as engineering controls) are not being applied or
       are not adequate and what effort is being made to reduce or eliminate the need for respirators.
       4.2.3. An explanation on why a particular type of respirator has been selected for a specific respi-
       ratory hazard.
       4.2.4. An explanation on the operation, capabilities, and limitations of the respirator selected.
       4.2.5. Instructions on how to recognize and cope with emergency situations.
       4.2.6. Explanations on how to maintain, clean, and store the respirator. This shall include how a
       worker should know when to change the filters or cartridges on an air-purifying respirator.
       4.2.7. Instructions for special-use respirators (such as Immediately Dangerous to Life and Health
       (IDHL), escape, etc).
       4.2.8. Instructions on how to inspect, put on, check the fit, and properly wear the respirator.
       4.2.9. The need to inform their supervisor of any problems experienced by themselves and their
       co-workers while wearing respirators.
BOLLINGAFBI48-1 19 APRIL 2001                                                                        7


     4.2.10. An opportunity for each respirator wearer to handle the respirator, learn how to don and
     wear it properly, check its seals, wear it in a safe atmosphere, and wear it in a test atmosphere.
     4.2.11. Respirator cartridge or filter change procedures, if needed.
     4.2.12. Importance of maintaining NIOSH certification of respirators (e.g., by only using manu-
     facturer's replacement parts).



                                                  JAMES P. HUNT, Colonel, USAF
                                                  Commander
8                                                              BOLLINGAFBI48-1 19 APRIL 2001


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY FOR REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program
Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) Standard 48-145, Occupational Health Program
AFI 32-2001, Fire Protection Operation and Fire Protection Program
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Program
29, Code of Federal Regulation (CFR), Part 1910.134, Respiratory Protection
