BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                               BOLLING AIR FORCE BASE
HEADQUARTERS, 11TH WING                                                        INSTRUCTION 51-2
                                                                                          29 JULY 2002

                                                                                                     Law

                                                             COURT/DISCHARGE PANEL MEMBER
                                                                        NOMINATION PROCESS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ 11 WG/JA (TSgt Andre Allen)                  Certified by: 11 WG/JA (Col Eugene B. Whitaker)
                                                                                            Pages: 7
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction supplements AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, and outlines the procedure
for submitting quarterly court/discharge panel member nomination lists. Members are made available for
courts-martial and discharge boards convened by the Commander, 11th Wing. It is applicable to all
assigned and attached members who will serve as members of the Court/Discharge Panel Member Nomi-
nation Process. This publication does not apply to U.S. Air Force Reserve or Air National Guard units or
members.
PRIVACY ACT WARNING STATEMENT: This instruction requires collecting and maintaining infor-
mation protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013 and E.O. 9397. Privacy Act
Systems Notice “F011 AFA – Locator, Registration and Postal Directory Files” applies.


1. Background: Pursuant to Special Order GA-001, issued annually, the Secretary of the Air Force
authorizes the 11th Wing Commander to convene general and special courts-martial pursuant to Article 22
(a)(7), Uniform Code of Military Justice. Pursuant to special order GA-001, issued annually, the Secretary
of the Air Force attaches Air Force members assigned to HQ USAF, Office of the Secretary of Defense
and certain Field Operating Agencies and Direct Reporting Units to the 11th Wing Commander to exercise
court-martial jurisdiction.

2. General Responsibilities: No later than 15 March, 15 June, 15 September, and 15 December each
year, the following organizations should submit a member nomination list consisting of officer and
enlisted personnel in the National Capital Region available for court-martial or discharge board duty for
the following quarter to 11 WG/JAM (Military Justice Section):
   2.1. 11 OG
   2.2. 11 MSG
   2.3. 11 WG/DS
2                                                                 BOLLINGAFBI51-2 29 JULY 2002


    2.4. 11 MDG
    2.5. 11 LG
    2.6. HQ USAF/DP
    2.7. HQ USAF/IL
    2.8. HQ USAF/XI
    2.9. HQ USAF/SG
    2.10. HQ USAF/XP
    2.11. HQ USAF/XO
    2.12. AFPCA
    2.13. AFOSR
    2.14. SAF/PA
    2.15. SAF/LL
    2.16. SAF/IG
    2.17. AFELM DIA
    2.18. AFELM DCMA
    2.19. AFELM NRO
    2.20. AFELM DTRA
    2.21. AFELM DLA
    2.22. AFC21SRC

3. Responsibilities of the Nominating Commanders:
    3.1. The Air Force relies on commanders and staff agency directors to nominate their best officers and
    enlisted members for this duty. The Manual for Courts-Martial (MCM) requires the selection of court
    members based upon their qualifications "by reason of their age, education, training, experience,
    length of service and judicial temperament.” Commanders should take these factors into consideration
    when submitting nominations. Generally, members with less than 2 years active military service
    should not be nominated for this duty.
    3.2. Commanders/Directors will submit an electronic list of nominees to 11 WG/JAM by the 15th of
    March, June, September and December of each year. 11 WG/JAM will in turn e-mail each nominated
    member an electronic personal data sheet to complete.
    3.3. Each member is nominated for the 3-month period following the submission of nominations. For
    example, the list submitted by 15 March nominates members for the months of April, May and June.
    3.4. The nomination list of Air Force personnel must consist of three field grade officers, two com-
    pany grade officers and two enlisted members (A1C and above) from each organization. If an organi-
    zation is unable to adequately support the required number of nominees due to a small Air Force
    population or during times of manning shortages, such as deployments or exercises, contact the Staff
    Judge Advocate to make alternate arrangements.
BOLLINGAFBI51-2 29 JULY 2002                                                                              3


   3.5. Commanders/Directors will ensure the nomination list is e-mailed to the noncommissioned
   officer in charge (NCOIC) of Military Justice by appointing points of contact (POCs) to comply with
   this requirement. A tasker will be e-mailed with the tasking document each quarter from the NCOIC
   of Military Justice to appointed POCs. (Attachment 1).
   3.6. An individual personal data sheet will be completed by the member nominated and submitted to
   the NCOIC of Military Justice, 11 WG/JAM (Attachment 3). Nominees type their information
   directly on the electronic version of the personal data sheet provided with the tasking document each
   quarter from the NCOIC of Military Justice. This will simplify updates to the individual personal data
   sheet, as members may be nominated for more than one quarter each year. Nominated members
   should contact their unit POC or the Military Justice Section to obtain the blank personal data sheet, if
   not already provided.
   3.7. Commanders/Directors will not nominate personnel whom they know:
      3.7.1. Will be on temporary duty (TDY) for more than 45 days of the 3 month period.
      3.7.2. Will separate or have a permanent change of station (PCS) during the 3 month period.
      3.7.3. Are on a control roster, have an unfavorable information file, or are under investigation for
      possible misconduct.
      3.7.4. Have a disciplinary record that demonstrates that "by reason of their age, education, train-
      ing, experience, length of service and judicial temperament" the nominated member is not the best
      nominee for service as a court member.
   3.8. In the event a member selected for a court date is unable to serve due to TDY, leave, PCS, sepa-
   ration, or any other reason, the individual will submit a written request through their commander
   explaining why he/she should be excused. The member should route the letter through their unit com-
   mander to 11 WG/JA.

4. Responsibilities of the Nominated Member:
   4.1. Nominated members will complete and submit a personal data sheet to the NCOIC of Military
   Justice, 11 WG/JAM (Bldg P-20, Room 201, or e-mail to the 11 WG/JA organization e-mail account).
   Nominees type their information directly on the electronic version provided. This will simplify
   updates to the individual personal data sheet, as members may be nominated for more than one quarter
   each year. The nominee will keep the personal data sheet in electronic form to update later and e-mail
   it to the NCOIC of Military Justice, who will incorporate it into a database for future updates. Nomi-
   nated members should contact their unit POC or contact the Military Justice section to obtain the
   blank personal data sheet if not already provided.
   4.2. The personal data sheet must list known leave and TDY scheduled for the 3 month period for
   which the member is being nominated. For example, nominees on the list due by 15 March must list
   their leave and TDY schedule for the months of April, May and June. After submission of the individ-
   ual personal data sheet, the member is responsible for updating his or her leave and TDY schedule as
   soon as such absences are projected with the 11th Wing Legal Office Military Justice Section, to avoid
   being selected for court or discharge board duty that conflicts with the member's schedule.
   4.3. In the event a member selected for a court date is unable to serve due to TDY, leave, PCS, sepa-
   ration or any other reason, the member will immediately inform his or her commander.
4                                                                  BOLLINGAFBI51-2 29 JULY 2002


5. Responsibilities of the 11th Wing Legal Office Military Justice Section:
    5.1. The Military Justice Section of the Legal Office will e-mail each responsible commander/director
    listed in paragraph 2. of this instruction, a reminder of the quarterly submission requirement no later
    than 15 days prior to the due date. Attached to the notice will be a blank nomination letter format in
    electronic format and a blank personal data sheet in electronic format.
    5.2. When preparing panels, the Legal Office will not submit names of members who have provided
    advance notice of conflicting TDY or leave schedules to the convening authority for consideration.
    5.3. Members selected to serve on court panels will be informed directly by phone and will receive an
    e-mail letter (Attachment 2) explaining their duties.



                                                     WILLIAM A. CHAMBERS, Colonel, USAF
                                                     Commander
BOLLINGAFBI51-2 29 JULY 2002                                                                                 5


                                               Attachment 1

  SELECTION OF COURT MEMBERS FOR COURTS-MARTIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE
                          BOARD HEARINGS


MEMORANDUM FOR ___________________
FROM: HQ 11 WG/CC (General Court-Martial Convening Authority)
SUBJECT: Selection of Court Members for Courts-Martial and
Administrative Board Hearings
1. Under the provisions of Article 25, Uniform Code of Military Justice, and Rule for Courts-Martial 502,
please nominate officer and enlisted members under your command to serve as court members for special
and general courts-martial. Members may also be used for administrative board hearings. Members
should be selected for this duty by reason of their age, education, training, experience, length of service
and judicial temperament. Please send your list of nominees and their completed data sheets to HQ 11
WG/JAM, Military Justice Division, NLT ____________. Once you have provided the nominee’s name
we will contact the member and request them to complete the attached data sheet. (Attachment 3)
2. The individuals you nominate should be available to sit on courts-martial or administrative board hear-
ings during the months of _________, _________ and ____________ 200_. The nomination list must
consist of three field grade officers, two company grade officers and two enlisted members from your
organization. In addition, the commander will not submit personnel whom they know:
a. Will be on temporary duty (TDY) for more than 45 days of the three-month period
b. Will separate or have a permanent change of station (PCS) during the three-month period
c. Are on a control roster, have an unfavorable information file, or are under investigation for
possible misconduct
d. Have a disciplinary record that demonstrates that "by reason of their age, education, training,
experience, length of service and judicial temperament" the nominated member is not the best
nominee for service as a court member.
3. 11 WG/JAM will inform members via telephone and e-mail if they are selected as court members.
Courts-martial and administrative discharge boards are a vital part of every military member’s develop-
ment. It gives our officers and enlisted personnel firsthand experience with the military justice system and
can often function as a tool for training the best for leadership. The military justice system is only as good
as the people who participate in it – so nominate your best.


WILLIAM A. CHAMBERS, Colonel, USAF
Commander
6                                                                  BOLLINGAFBI51-2 29 JULY 2002


                                              Attachment 2

                  NOTIFICATION OF COURT MEMBER SELECTION, U.S. V.


MEMORANDUM FOR COURT-MARTIAL MEMBERS
FROM: HQ 11 WG/JA
20 MacDill Blvd, Suite 330
Bolling AFB DC 20332-0110
SUBJECT: Notification of Court Member Selection, U.S. v.
1. The (General)(Special) Court-Martial Convening Authority, selected you to serve on the above refer-
enced court-martial panel. The trial date is set for _________ in the Courtroom located in Bldg 20, Third
Floor, Bolling AFB, DC. On the day of the trial, please remain on telephone stand-by in your service dress
uniform ready to begin at 0800 hours. You will be contacted and instructed whether to report in, or be
released.
2. You were selected based on the criteria set forth in the Rule for Courts-Martial. Under this provision,
the Convening Authority selected you by reason of age, education, training, experience, length of service
and judicial temperament. Duty as a court member is paramount; it is not an additional duty and it takes
precedence over all other activities. You may only be excused from this duty by the Convening Authority.
Any requests for excusal should be based on good cause such as extraordinary military commitments or
acute personal hardships. Requests for excusal will be routed through 11 WG/JAM to (11 WG/CC)(11
MSG/CC).
3. You should make no effort to determine the identity of the accused or to learn the facts of the case. You
should not consult the Manual for Courts-Martial, the Uniform Code of Military Justice, or any other
source of law concerning the case. Please do not discuss the case with anyone, including other court mem-
bers, until the case is submitted to you for final disposition.
4. If you have any questions, please contact 11 WG/JAM, TSgt Andre Allen, at (202) 767-7586. Thank
you in advance for your participation in this process.


/S/
EUGENE B. WHITAKER, Colonel, USAF
Staff Judge Advocate
 BOLLINGAFBI51-2 29 JULY 2002                                                                                                                                     7


                                                                       Attachment 3

                                              COURT/BOARD MEMBER DATA SHEET

            COURT/BOARD MEMBER DATA SHEET                                                                       Current as of
            Bolling Air Force Base, District of Columbia
Name (Last, First, MI)                             Grade                                        Duty Title


Organization (Unit/Office Symbol)/MAJCOM                           Duty Phone                  Fax No.               E-Mail Address


Rater                                                       Date of Rank                       Age                   TAFMSD


Date Assigned Station                       Date of PCS               Date of Separation               Sex           Race
                                            Departure


Marital Status                            No. of Children              Gender and Age of Children                    State of Residence


Duty History-Last 3 Assignments (include base, duty title and dates of assignment)



Post Secondary Education (include name of institution, type of degree, major and date awarded)



Professional Military Education (include type, date completed, and how completed)



Previous Court Martial Experience (include type, subject matter, and year of each)



Previous Administrative Discharge Board Experience (include type, subject matter, and year of each)



Pending TDY’s /PCS/Leave/Retirement Plans and Dates (projected for 3 months)

Any specific tasks or duties which may interfere with your ability to sit as a court/board member

AUTHORITY: 10 U.S.C. 825, E.O. 11476, AFI 51-201 and AFI 36-3208. PRINCIPAL PURPOSES: To collect information to determine who are best qualified
to serve as members of a court-martial or administrative discharge board by reason of age, education, training, experience, length of service, and judicial
temperament. Use of social security number is for the positive identification of an individual. ROUTINE USES: Convening Authority will use the information
to select those best qualified to serve on courts-martial or administrative discharge boards. Trial and defense counsel may use the information as basis for challenge
for cause or for peremptory challenge. DISCLOSURE: Disclosure is voluntary. We request your cooperation in providing this information to expedite the selection
of court or board members.
