BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       BUCKLEY AIR FORCE BASE
BUCKLEY AIR FORCE BASE                                               INSTRUCTION 64-100

                                                                                  3 APRIL 2014

                                                                                    Contracting

                                                SATELLITE TELEVISION (SATV) SERVICE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on e-Publishing at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 460 SCS/SCXP                                                     Certified by: 460 SCS/CC
                                                                                  (Lt Col Wells)
                                                                                        Pages: 8


This instruction implements AFI 64-101, Multichannel Video Programming Distribution
(Broadcast Cable). This instruction establishes guidelines for requisition, validation, funding,
and installation of satellite television (SATV) service in government offices. It applies to all
units assigned or attached to Buckley AFB (BAFB), excluding the 11th Space Warning
Squadron, Schriever Air Force Base. This includes Air National Guard, Reserve, and tenant
units that are reimbursable to the 460 SW for communications services per Host/Tenant Support
Agreement (HTSA).             This publication may not be supplemented or further
implemented/extended. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 through appropriate chain of command. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS).

1. Television Services on BAFB. Television subscription services are provided by a
commercial vendor under a Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA) established by the 460th
Contracting Flight for all wing, tenant, and GSU personnel supported by the 460th Space Wing,
Buckley AFB.
   1.1. Use. SATV services may be employed to support four categories; official business, un-
   official business, non-appropriated funds (NAF) operated facilities, and personal residence.
       1.1.1. Official Business. Justified by providing situational awareness for local and
       global news events for the following designated areas/functions:
 2                                                     BUCKLEYAFBI64-100 3 APRIL 2014


            1.1.1.1. Offices of squadron commanders, directors, wing staff agency chiefs, and
            above.
            1.1.1.2. 24-hour operations work centers to include the EOC.
            1.1.1.3. Fire Department Sleeping Quarters/Day Rooms (changes require Union
            approval).
        1.1.2. Un-Official Business. Justified as common use area or waiting areas (where wait
        times may exceed 30 minutes).
            1.1.2.1. Customer waiting areas.
            1.1.2.2. Dormitory Day Rooms.
        1.1.3. NAF Facilities. If SATV services are requested as part of the BPA, customers will
        establish a memorandum of agreement (MOA) with the 460 SCS and provide
        reimbursement for SATV services to NAF designated facilities/areas.
        1.1.4. Personal Residence. SATV service for base housing and dormitory residents’
        quarters will be purchased by the residents as an agreement between the vendor and
        resident and is not associated with the BPA. Contact the Housing Office or Dorm
        Manager for details. Residents will troubleshoot their connection with their established
        service provider and escort the vendor from the Buckley AFB Entry Control Point to their
        residence and back. If a problem exists with building wiring, beyond the receiver to the
        wall jack, customers must contact the Housing Office or Dorm Manager as appropriate.
     1.2. Requesting New Service.
        1.2.1. On-Base Government Offices. New SATV services must be requested by the unit
        by submitting a New Activation Request for Satellite TV (SATV) Service (see Attachment
        2) with specific information (building, room, justification for who or what it is
        supporting). This request will be routed to the owning unit commander through the 460th
        SCS/CC to the 460 SW/CC. Note: Package Type will be basic services. If additional
        services are requested, please refer to paragraph 3.2.
        1.2.2. Base Housing/Dormitories. Contact service provider directly.
     1.3. Off Base. Off-base tenant organizations will be supported in accordance with their
     HTSA or MOA and as requested through a Work Order Management System (WOMS)
     ticket.
     1.4. Installation. SATV infrastructure installation does not fall under the BPA and will be
     funded by the requesting unit once approved in WOMS. Any exceptions not approved by the
     WOMS process will need Communication Systems Officer (CSO) or designee approval.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. The Customer/Requester will:
        2.1.1. Ensure only mission-essential requests are submitted by thoroughly reviewing the
        requirement for SATV. Requests for service must be identified and justified as one of the
        use categories in paragraph 1.1.
BUCKLEYAFBI64-100 3 APRIL 2014                                                                  3


       2.1.2. Submit new requirements through WOMS via Telephone Control Officer (TCO).
       A justification letter and single-line drawing of the proposed SATV installation area must
       be attached with the WOMS request.
       2.1.3. Provide a point of contact for vendor liaison and escort to Buckley AFB when
       required.
       2.1.4. Fund installation costs for charges and fees incurred during installation,
       troubleshooting, and/or repair via Government Purchase Card or other approved methods.
       2.1.5. Document all assigned SATV receivers on their unit’s Information Technology
       Equipment Custodian (ITEC) account and inform the 460 SCS/SCX SATV manager of
       any changes to their SATV inventory.
       2.1.6. Assist in the physical inventory of SATV connections within their assigned area of
       responsibility.
       2.1.7. Maintain records on all connection locations within their area of responsibility and
       ensure SATV connections are not altered to allow unauthorized hookups.
       2.1.8. Conduct basic troubleshooting, see Table 1.
       2.1.9. Contact the 460 SCS/CFP to coordinate vendor access to the communication
       closets, if needed.
   2.2. 460 SCS/SCX will:
       2.2.1. Review and process all SATV requirements submitted in WOMS for service
       availability and forward requirements to the CSO or designee for approval/disapproval.
       2.2.2. Validate/document monthly charges and process payment to the authorized
       contracted commercial vendor.
       2.2.3. Collect reimbursement for monthly service charge from tenant organization
       customers for service, installation, and maintenance/repair costs.
       2.2.4. Validate all SATV connections and maintain documentation.
       2.2.5. Take action to remove existing SATV services and connections that are not
       authorized and/or do not meet approved installation standards.
   2.3. 460 CONF/LGCB will:
       2.3.1. Establish a Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA) for all wing, tenant, and GSU
       personnel supported by the 460th Space Wing, Buckley AFB. The BPA will be setup in a
       decentralized orientation allowing designated individuals from the 460 SCS to make
       payments and calls under the BPA using their Government Purchase card.
       2.3.2. Maintain a record of those individuals who are authorized to make calls under the
       BPA.
3. Billing:
   3.1. SATV basic channel service is funded by the 460 SW Blanket Purchase Agreement.
   Basic SATV service consists of cable news, weather and local channels.
 4                                                       BUCKLEYAFBI64-100 3 APRIL 2014


     3.2. Supplemental Services (services above the basic package). Supplemental service is not
     authorized for official use unless justification, or reference to official guidance stipulating
     otherwise, is provided to the 460 SCS/CSO or designee and the 460 SW/CC for approval.
     The responsible unit commander/director will provide the justification in writing using the
     Waiver Request for Upgraded Satellite TV (SATV) Service template (see Attachment 3). This
     supplemental service will require revalidation when mission changes or at least annually.
     3.3. Customers can opt for supplemental services without justification provided a
     memorandum of agreement (MOA) is established between the customer (unit) and the 460
     SCS. The MOA must state the customer’s responsibility to reimburse all additional costs
     resulting from supplemental services. The 460 SCS/RA will work directly with 460
     CPTS/FMA to ensure a reimbursement process is clearly outlined and executed by obtaining
     funding from tenants before any action to set up SATV is taken.
     3.4. Installation, maintenance, and repair costs are funded by the owning unit.

Table 1. Troubleshooting

1. Ensure there is a COAX cable from the wall outlet to the back of SATV receiver connection
labeled as "Satellite In" and ensure the connections are tight. If no COAX cable is found,
customer will need to acquire COAX cable and install.
2. Ensure there is a COAX cable from the SATV receiver connection labeled as "TV Set Out" to
the TV COAX connection and ensure the connections are tight. If no COAX cable is found,
customer will need to acquire COAX cable and install.
3. Ensure the TV is on the proper channel, input, or source selection. (This may vary per
television, most frequent channels used are 3 or 4) If a problem still exists, proceed to next step.
4. Restart the receiver; press and hold the power button on the receiver until system restarts. If
problem still exists, proceed to next step.
5. Customer will take the SATV receiver's Remote Control and press the “Menu” key, then
press the numbers 6 for "System Setup," 1 for "Installation," and 1 for "Point Dish/Signal."
(System will attempt to lock onto satellites).
Wait for satellite lock before continuing. Then select "Check Switch," "Test," (System will
Check Switch Installation which could take several minutes).
Check switch should indicate "Status: Satellite reception verified." Cancel out of test, if problem
still exists, proceed to next step.
6. Technician Callout Required - Units will fund technician callout with Government Purchase
Card (GPC).




                                              DANIEL D. WRIGHT, III. Colonel, USAF
                                              COMMANDER
BUCKLEYAFBI64-100 3 APRIL 2014                                                          5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 64-101, Multichannel Video Programming Distribution (Broadcast Cable), 1 December
2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
BPA—Blanket Purchase Agreement
CONF—Contracting Flight
CSO—Communication Systems Officer
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
HTSA—Host/Tenant Support Agreement
ITEC—Information Technology Equipment Custodian
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RA—Resource Advisor
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SATV—Satellite Television
SCS—Space Communications Squadron
TCO—Telecommunications Control Officer
WOMS—Work Order Management System

Terms
Basic Service:—The least expensive SATV package offered by the authorized contracted
commercial vendor. Packages should include news, weather and channels required to meet
mission requirements.
Government Office: Any area or room not designated on the Base Real Estate Plan as
living quarters or commercial facilities. Government offices may include Non—
Appropriated Funds (NAF) areas.
SATV Service:—Satellite Television services purchased from an authorized contracted
commercial vendor.
 6                                                BUCKLEYAFBI64-100 3 APRIL 2014


Supplemental Service:—SATV packages or channels other than basic service which result in
additional charges (e.g. premium, pay per view, sports and music channels).
Unauthorized Hookup:—Any hookup, splitter or splice from an existing cable that was not
installed by the commercial vendor.
BUCKLEYAFBI64-100 3 APRIL 2014                                               7


                                    Attachment 2
       NEW ACTIVATION REQUEST FOR SATELLITE TV (SATV) SERVICE

Figure A2.1. New Activation Request for Satellite TV (SATV) Service Sample
 8                                              BUCKLEYAFBI64-100 3 APRIL 2014


                                    Attachment 3
      WAIVER REQUEST FOR UPGRADED SATELLITE TV (SATV) SERVICE

Figure A3.1. Waiver Request for Upgraded Satellite TV (SATV) Service Sample
