BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       CANNON AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
CANNON AIR FORCE BASE                                                       21-201

                                                                          21 DECEMBER 2009

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                           FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE
                                                  (FOD)/DROPPED OBJECT PREVENTION
                                                                    (DOP) PROGRAM

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering in the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no reliability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 27 SOW/CVF                                         Certified by: 27 SOW/CV (Col H. Ruedi
                                                                                      Kaspar)
                                                                                    Pages: 10


This instruction implements AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management. It
prescribes policies and procedures governing the Foreign Object Damage (FOD) and Dropped
Object Prevention (DOP) Programs. It applies to all units assigned to the 27th Special
Operations Wing (SOW). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s through local
publications/forms managers.

1. FOD Program Objective.
   1.1. To raise FOD awareness and enhance prevention methods for all personnel.
   1.2. To standardize reporting procedures for all FOD-related incidents to assigned aircraft.
   1.3. To obtain positive results through an aggressive and functional FOD prevention
   program. Results are achieved by all military, civilian and contract personnel supporting
   operations taking an active role in FOD control.
2. FOD Program Responsibilities.
2                                               CANNONAFBI21-201 21 DECEMBER 2009


    2.1. The 27 SOW Vice Commander will serve as chairperson of all quarterly wing FOD
    briefings. The chairperson monitors all phases of the FOD prevention program implemented
    within the wing.
    2.2. The FOD program manager takes authority for program responsibilities.
    2.3. Cannon Air Force Base Visual Aid 21-201 (CAFBVA 21-201), Wing FOD Monitor
    Poster, will be used on all FOD awareness notification boards to identify the wing FOD
    monitor.
    2.4. The FOD program manager will:
       2.4.1. Administer and publicize the FOD prevention program.
       2.4.2. Supervise investigations, ensure accurate reporting, advise and assist in the
       implementing corrective actions when necessary. Coordinate closely with 27 SOW/SE
       during investigations to provide required information needed for timely reporting IAW
       AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Report.
       2.4.3. Disseminate information on all FOD incidents and preventive measures to
       appropriate management levels of agencies with interest to keep them aware of problem
       areas.
       2.4.4. Serve as the focal point for all FOD prevention incentive programs.
       2.4.5. Maintain the wing FOD continuity book and historical records of all FOD
       incidents IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
       2.4.6. Conduct a quarterly wing FOD briefing to discuss FOD, DOP and lost tool trends
       and related issues. This meeting will be held during the month after the quarter ends.
       2.4.7. Conduct the FOD prevention briefing for 27 SOMXG personnel during
       initial/refresher maintenance orientation training.
    2.5. The 27 SOCES/CC will:
       2.5.1. Ensure airfield pavement repair is coordinated with the airfield manager as
       needed.
       2.5.2. Ensure the availability of sweepers at all times to include weekends, holidays, and
       after normal duty hours for emergency sweeping.
    2.6. The 27 SOMXG/QA will accomplish inspections to determine compliance with FOD
    prevention procedures.
3. Maintenance Unit Responsibilities.
    3.1. Squadron/Unit FOD Monitor. SOEMS/SOCMS/SOMOS will appoint a primary and
    alternate FOD NCO or equivalent. SOAMXS maintenance supervision will appoint a
    squadron FOD monitor and a unit FOD monitor within each AMU.          A copy of the
    appointment letters will be sent to the wing FOD monitor and updated when any names
    change.
       3.1.1. Unit FOD Monitors will ensure a FOD awareness board is posted in each unit
       where all personnel can view it. The board will include FOD posters (if available), the
       latest copy of FOD incidents and CAFBVA 21-101.
CANNONAFBI21-201 21 DECEMBER 2009                                                              3


      3.1.2. Unit FOD Monitors will be familiar with directives concerning the FOD
      prevention program, participate in the wing FOD committee meetings as required, advise
      new personnel of potential FOD problems, train new personnel to an appropriate level of
      FOD awareness required for the work center, and promote FOD awareness within the
      squadron/unit.
      3.1.3. Unit FOD Monitors will perform weekly checks of parking ramps, taxiways,
      engine run areas and other maintenance/storage areas in their area of responsibility for
      cleanliness and condition of pavement.
      3.1.4. Work center supervisors will ensure FOD information is briefed monthly. The
      Squadron/Unit FOD Monitor will assist/support this effort.
   3.2. It is the responsibility of supervisors and the FOD monitors to be familiar with this
   instruction and references listed in Attachment 1.
   3.3. In conjunction with safety briefings, supervisors will brief their personnel on
   organization policies and each individual's responsibility toward an effective FOD
   Prevention Program.
4. FOD Prevention Practices.
   4.1. Each organization will ensure FOD containers are emptied at the end of each shift.
   4.2. Personnel will be constantly alert for any form of foreign objects (FO) during all phases
   of maintenance and ensure work areas are continually policed to eliminate FO.
   4.3. Facility Managers must monitor facility areas for items that could be a potential FO
   contributor. Special attention will be focused on paved/parking areas, break areas and
   walkways around the facility for deterioration.
   4.4. Any base organization that has contract personnel working on the flight line will ensure
   all contract personnel are made aware of this instruction.
5. Flightline FOD prevention.
   5.1. The SOMXG/CC is the OPR for the development of wing procedures for control and
   management of tools/equipment used on the flightline and aircraft/aerospace equipment
   maintenance industrial areas. As a minimum, the following guidance will be adhered to:
   5.2. FOD walks:
      5.2.1. FOD walks will be conducted daily.
      5.2.2. All units are responsible for their FOD walk areas.
      5.2.3. All units will accomplish a FOD walk on the interior and exterior of their duty
      sections to include hangar bays.
      5.2.4. Upon request of the Wing FOD Manager, representation from all base squadrons
      may be utilized to augment FOD sweeps.
      5.2.5. During FOD walks, personnel will maintain a side-by-side formation with a
      maximum of 10 feet separation to ensure a thorough check.
4                                                 CANNONAFBI21-201 21 DECEMBER 2009


    5.3. Flight line vehicle operators will monitor the flight line road, parking aprons and
    taxiways for FO or broken concrete. Any loose debris, broken concrete, rocks or other
    potential FO will be picked up.
    5.4. Call MOCC or Airfield Management to dispatch an airfield sweeper if necessary to
    clean pad surfaces. If concrete is breaking up close to intake areas, do not run engines until
    hazard is gone.
    5.5. FOD Bosses will be used as determined by the Wing FOD monitor.
    5.6. FOD walks will be accomplished in the immediate area prior to starting engines.
    5.7. Personnel performing maintenance within 50 feet of running aircraft engines will secure
    all loose clothing items (e.g. field jackets and parka hoods).
    5.8. Remove Before Flight streamers will not be rolled up.
    5.9. Each unit will ensure flight line/hangar grounding points and hangar door tracks are
    kept free of debris at all times.
    5.10. All FO will be picked up. Any unique or unusual objects will be given to squadron/unit
    FOD representatives to be turned into the Wing FOD monitor. All other objects will be
    discarded at the termination of the walk unless otherwise specified by the Wing FOD
    monitor.
    5.11. Any areas where maintenance was completed on aircraft, aircraft parts, or areas where
    either can be exposed will be followed up by cleaning all areas affected.
6. Vehicle operations.
    6.1. Tire FOD Checks.
       6.1.1. Vehicles entering flight line areas will use FOD check points. Anything found
       will be disposed of in the vehicle’s FOD container.
       6.1.2. All vehicles and equipment in tow entering the flight line perimeter will stop to do
       a tire FOD check.
       6.1.3. A FOD check must be accomplished in the event a vehicle leaves the paved
       surface of the flight line.
       6.1.4. If the driver leaves the vehicle during these FOD checks the vehicle must be
       turned off and the parking brake set. When a passenger leaves the vehicle to check the
       tires, the vehicle will be placed in park prior to exiting.
       6.1.5. The only exception is for vehicles responding to an actual emergency.
    6.2. Vehicle pintle hooks will be in the fully open position or closed position with the pin
    installed at all times. The pin will be secured to the vehicle by a lanyard.
    6.3. All flight line support vehicles will have a FOD container and will be emptied after
    every shift. Vehicle floorboards will be kept FO free.
    6.4. AGE equipment will be inspected for FO before and after use. AGE flight will be
    responsible for equipment on the ready line.
    6.5. Ensure all special purpose vehicles, Gators, EZGOs, etc., are kept FO free at all times.
CANNONAFBI21-201 21 DECEMBER 2009                                                               5


7. Aircraft FOD Prevention.
   7.1. Line badges will be secured to the uniform using a lanyard or armband that also
   conforms to AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel. Lanyards
   used around the neck will be of a breakaway style and must not be able to support the weight
   of the individual.
   7.2. Line badges will be stowed when individual is within 25 ft of an operating engine.
   7.3. Aircrew will ensure cleanliness of aircraft prior to accepting the aircraft as crew ready.
   All discrepancies will be corrected by maintenance prior to crew accepting the aircraft. The
   aircrew is responsible for all trash accumulated from the time of acceptance through
   releasing the aircraft back to maintenance.
8. Agencies involved in non-daily routine actions on flight line.
   8.1. Agencies (e.g. SOCES, SOCS, etc.) involved with any duty performance on the flight
   line or surrounding maintenance buildings (e.g. ramps, hangars, storage buildings, etc.) will
   account for all tools, pro gear, etc. entering and exiting the flight line areas.
9. FOD Incident Investigations and Reporting.
   9.1. Visiting units may use guidance/policy from their higher headquarters in regards to the
   investigative process where conflicts occur with this instruction.
   9.2. Visiting units will work with the wing FOD monitor during the process.
   9.3. FOD checklist/report may be found on https://webapps.hurlburt.af.mil/ or may be
   obtained from the MOCC.
   9.4. Each case of FOD will be investigated to determine the cause. Notify the wing FOD
   program manager immediately. If the aircraft is impounded, proper procedures will be
   strictly adhered to. All mishaps will be investigated using the expertise of maintenance
   personnel, safety, wing FOD monitor, and other staff agencies as needed. Full cooperation of
   all affected parties is required to ensure an accurate and complete investigation is
   accomplished.
   9.5. All mishaps will be reported IAW AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports. Wing
   safety will prepare all mishap reports in which the cost exceeds $20,000.
   9.6. The 27 SOEMS/MXMMA (Wheel and Tire shop) will notify the FOD manager of all
   tires that are damaged due to FO as they occur.
10. Aircrew and Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE).
   10.1. The following procedures to control aircrew tools, AFE, and issued aircrew equipment
   toolkits that are dispatchable to the flightline have been coordinated through the wing life
   support superintendent.
       10.1.1. The flight equipment officer and NCOIC will ensure tools and equipment are
       available for all home station and mobility commitments. All section supervisors are
       responsible for the CTK program in their section. All AFE technicians are responsible for
       the tools in the CTK they have signed out.
       10.1.2. All aircrew and AFE CTKs will be standardized and controlled.
6                                                CANNONAFBI21-201 21 DECEMBER 2009


11. Incentive Programs.
    11.1. The following outlines the FOD awards program. The intent of this program is to
    increase FOD, DOP and lost tool interest and awareness. Active duty personnel assigned to
    Cannon AFB will be rewarded for their contributions toward prevention. The ultimate goal
    is to eliminate potential FOD hazards. Civilian and contract personnel are specifically
    excluded from these incentive programs.
    11.2. FOD Poster Artist of the Month.
       11.2.1. This program is open to anyone assigned to Cannon AFB. Submissions should
       be a drawing or computer generated graphic aimed at promoting FOD awareness.
       11.2.2. Entries will contain name, unit, and duty phone.
       11.2.3. Only one person can be nominated per entry. No group entries allowed.
       11.2.4. The entry must be a formatted 8.5 x 11 portrait or landscaped and forwarded
       electronically to the squadron/unit FOD monitor.
       11.2.5. If there is more than one submission per squadron/unit, the squadron/unit FOD
       monitor will select the winner.
       11.2.6. The unit FOD monitor will send the submissions to the wing FOD office as soon
       as possible but no later than the 5th duty day of the next month.
       11.2.7. The monthly winner receives a 1-day pass from the 27 SOW/CV.
    11.3. Golden Bolt.
       11.3.1. Each month a bolt, engraved "golden bolt," will be positioned in or around the
       flight line area and supporting back-shops on a random basis by the wing FOD monitor
       or representative. This is aimed at maintaining FOD focus and awareness. (Up to 2
       Golden Bolts per month and placement to be determined by the wing FOD monitor.)
       11.3.2. It is observed by the wing FOD monitor for approximately 20 minutes or until
       found by unit personnel whichever is first.
       11.3.3. The person discovering the bolt will receive a certificate with a 1-day pass from
       the 27 SOW/CV.
    11.4. FOD Fighter of the Month.
       11.4.1. The contest will require supervisors at all levels to be alert to what is happening
       on and off the flight line at all times. If a potential FOD hazard is detected and removed
       from an aircraft, support equipment, flight line, or in any aircraft maintenance or
       maintenance related facility, the individual‘s supervisor is highly encouraged to submit a
       letter for nomination or set up a meeting with the squadron/unit FOD monitor.
       11.4.2. If there is more than one submission per squadron/unit, the squadron/unit FOD
       monitor will select the winner. The squadron/unit FOD monitor will send the
       submissions to the wing FOD office as soon as possible but no later than the 5th duty day
       of the next month.
CANNONAFBI21-201 21 DECEMBER 2009                                                          7


      11.4.3. The squadron/unit FOD monitor will submit the letter or set up a meeting to the
      wing FOD monitor with their winner. The wing FOD monitor will select the overall
      winner from all submissions.
          11.4.3.1. At a minimum, the nomination letter will include the following: date of
          discovery, task being performed, action taken, damage prevented and potential
          savings to the wing.
          11.4.3.2. The squadron commander, AMU OIC, or appropriate supervision will
          endorse the nomination letter.
      11.4.4. The monthly award winner receives a 1-day pass from the 27 SOW/CV.
12. Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) program.
   12.1. Squadron/Unit DOP Monitor. SOEMS/SOCMS/SOMOS maintenance supervision will
   appoint a primary and alternate DOP prevention monitor or equivalent. SOAMXS
   maintenance supervision will appoint a squadron DOP monitor and a unit DOP monitor
   within each AMU. The DOP monitor and FOD monitor should be the same person whenever
   possible. A copy of the appointment letters will be sent to the wing DOP monitor and
   updated when any names change. A copy will also be maintained in the unit's continuity
   book.
   12.2. Squadron DOP monitor will:
      12.2.1. Act as a point of contact for the wing DOP monitor.
      12.2.2. Publicize the DOP program through briefings and roll calls highlighting the
      objects most often dropped.
   12.3. Unit DOP monitor will:
      12.3.1. Ensure each AMU has personnel that can and will perform the duties of a DOP
      monitor if the primary and alternate monitors are not available.
      12.3.2. Oversee the program at the AMU level. They will work with the wing DOP
      Monitor on all dropped objects that affect their AMU.
      12.3.3. Work with other AMUs and the wing DOP monitor to remedy problems.
      12.3.4. Brief the OIC/NCOIC on AMU dropped objects with attention to adverse trends
      or poor maintenance practices.
      12.3.5. Ensure Dropped Object Investigation worksheet/report is completed and a copy
      is forwarded to the wing DOP monitor within 48-hours. The worksheet/report can be
      found at https://webapps.hurlburt.af.mil/ or may be obtained from the MOCC.
      12.3.6. Notify wing DOP monitor within 24-hours of the occurrence and the estimated
      cost of repairing the aircraft, if any damage is noted.
   12.4. Maintenance Training Flight (MTF) will ensure dropped object training for aircraft
   maintenance personnel through the mission orientation and mission refresher courses.
   Training will be kept current through dropped object monthly summaries provided by the
   wing DOP Monitor. MTF will work with the wing DOP monitor to ensure aircraft
8                                                CANNONAFBI21-201 21 DECEMBER 2009


    maintenance technicians are well informed of problem objects and how to prevent them from
    occurring.
    12.5. Investigation Procedures:
       12.5.1. Dropped objects will be investigated using the Dropped Object Investigation
       worksheet/report.
       12.5.2. Squadron/AMU DOP monitors and subject matter experts will assist the wing
       DOP monitor when required.
       12.5.3. The technician discovering the dropped object will:
           12.5.3.1. Notify the production superintendant and flight chief of the missing object.
           12.5.3.2. Initiate the Dropped Object Investigation Worksheet.
       12.5.4. The production superintendent will notify the MOCC.
       12.5.5. The AMU DOP Monitor will forward worksheet/report to the wing DOP
       monitor within 48-hours of the incident.
       12.5.6. QA will review the initial investigation at the time of occurrence.
       12.5.7. Wing DOP Monitor will:
           12.5.7.1. Review the worksheet and record dropped object information for tracking
           purposes.
           12.5.7.2. Analyze dropped object reports for evidence of adverse trends and negative
           maintenance practices and provide feedback to AMU DOP monitors.
           12.5.7.3. Notify the 27 SOMXG/CC of the occurrence and estimated cost of
           repairing the aircraft.
           12.5.7.4. Prepare and disseminate a monthly/quarterly dropped object summary,
           highlighting items requiring increased awareness to 27 SOMXG/CC, each
           AMU/squadron and MTF.
           12.5.7.5. Maintain a dropped object log by fiscal year for 2 years. The log will
           contain control number, date, AMU/squadron, aircraft, object dropped, cost, whether
           or not it was preventable, DR action and action taken to prevent recurrence.
           12.5.7.6. Determine if there is a problem isolated to a particular unit/squadron or
           common to all units/squadrons.
           12.5.7.7. Work with squadron/AMU DOP monitors to remedy adverse dropped
           object trends.

13. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

13.1. Prescribed Forms.

No forms prescribed.
CANNONAFBI21-201 21 DECEMBER 2009                                                 9


13.2. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                        STEPHEN A. CLARK, Col, USAF
                                        Commander, 27th Special Operations Wing
10                                              CANNONAFBI21-201 21 DECEMBER 2009


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 Sep 08

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
DR—Deficiency Report
FO—Foreign Objects
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
DOP—Dropped Object Prevention

Terms
FO—Any substance, debris or article alien to an area, vehicle or system, which could potentially
cause damage.
FOD—any damage to an aircraft, engine, aircraft system, component, tire, munitions, or support
equipment caused by FO which may or may not degrade the required safety and/or operational
characteristics of the aforementioned items.
DOP—any aircraft part, component, surface or other item lost during aircrew operations, unless
intentionally jettisoned, from engine start to engine shutdown.
