BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      CANNON AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
CANNON AIR FORCE BASE (AFSOC)                                              90-821

                                                                           23 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                          Special Management

                                                               HAZARD COMMUNICATION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 27 SOAMDS/SGPB                                               Certified by: 27 SOMDG/CC
                                                                         (Col Jeffrey C. Gillen)
Supersedes:   CANNONAFBI90-821,                                                        Pages: 7
              18 January 2007


This instruction implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-
1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 23 Aug 2011, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-821, Hazard
Communication, and Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Standard 29 CFR
1910.1200, Hazard Communication. This instruction applies to all 27th Special Operations Wing
and associated units. It is intended to reduce the incidence of chemically-induced occupational
illness and injury by informing employees of the hazards associated with, and proper preventive
measures required when using or handling hazardous materials in the workplace. This instruction
serves as the workplace written program required by AFI 90-821. This instruction places primary
responsibility for hazard communication (HAZCOM) training and worker awareness on the
work area/shop supervisor. Employee training consists of comprehensive AF HAZCOM training
conducted upon initial assignment and supplemental training made necessary when a new
chemical hazard or exposure has been introduced into the work area/shop. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this document are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records             Disposition           Schedule          (RDS)            located          at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s through local
publications/forms managers.
 2                                                  CANNONAFBI90-821 23 OCTOBER 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates office titles and functional address symbols. It serves as the work center
written Hazard Communication program in accordance with AFI 90-821.
1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. Squadron/Unit level Commanders will ensure a Hazard Communication Program is
     established in each workplace using potentially hazardous material and ensure the HAZCOM
     binder is maintained.
     1.2. Work area supervisors will:
        1.2.1. Ensure the section’s Hazard Communication Program and the HAZCOM binder
        meets the requirements of this instruction.
        1.2.2. Ensure all work area personnel receive the training described in AFI 90-821.
        1.2.3. At least annually, reconcile SDSs on file (if files outside of HMIRS and ESOH-
        MIS are maintained) and the work area/shop hazardous chemical inventory.
        1.2.4. Ensure the section’s non-routine task descriptions and chemical inventories are up
        to date and an SDS is available for all potentially hazardous materials in the workplace.
        (Note: The SDS on file must be from the manufacturer of the item currently in use in the
        workplace).
        1.2.5. Ensure all containers for potentially hazardous materials remain labeled. If
        materials are transferred to other (in-shop) containers, supervisors shall ensure the other
        containers are properly labeled. Label information on such containers will include:
            1.2.5.1. The identity of the hazardous chemicals contained therein.
            1.2.5.2. Appropriate hazard warnings that include information about the specific
            physical and health hazard(s), including target organ effects of the chemical(s) in the
            container. This may be accomplished using any combination of words, symbols, or
            pictures.
        1.2.6. Ensure contractors working in or around the workplace where they may be
        exposed to potentially hazardous materials are advised of the section’s Hazard
        Communication Program and the contents of the HAZCOM binder.
        1.2.7. Ensure any contractor bringing potentially hazardous materials into the area also
        provides an SDS to accommodate training anyone potentially exposed to the product.
        1.2.8. Must comply with Cannon AFB Hazardous Materials Pharmacy (HAZMART)
        Procedures.
     1.3. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) Flight will:
        1.3.1. Inspect each applicable workplace’s Hazard Communication Program and
        HAZCOM binder, and review training status during routine industrial hygiene surveys.
        1.3.2. Provide assistance to workplaces in obtaining SDSs as the need is identified.
        1.3.3. Provide technical assistance to supervisors in preparing lesson plans.
CANNONAFBI90-821 23 OCTOBER 2013                                                                3


   1.4. Public Health (PH) Flight will make the appropriate training available to work
   area/shop supervisors. Primary responsibility for performing HAZCOM training rests with
   the work area/shop supervisor.
   1.5. 27 SOLRS Material Flight Storage and Issue Section, Inspection Section, and
   similar in Medical Logistics, SOLRS Vehicle Maintenance, or CE Self-Help will:
      1.5.1. Ensure containers of potentially hazardous materials are properly identified and
      labeled. The procedures of AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.6. will be followed if a product is not
      labeled, and a label is required.
      1.5.2. Obtain a SDS on all potentially hazardous materials “locally” procured by their
      activity and forward a copy of the SDS to BE.
   1.6. Contracting Office will:
      1.6.1. For all contracts locally procuring potentially hazardous materials, ensure the
      Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 23.303, clause 52.223-3, Hazardous Material
      Identification and Material Safety Data, is included in the contract.
      1.6.2. Advise requesting activity Contracting Officer Representatives and/or Project
      Managers to ensure all contractors are trained before working in or near an Air Force
      industrial work- place where they may be exposed to potentially hazardous materials.
      Note that radioactive or radiation producing items are not allowed on Cannon AFB
      without prior approval of the Base Radiation Safety Officer, which is the base
      Bioenvironmental Engineer.
      1.6.3. Advise requesting activity Contracting Officer Representatives and/or Project
      Managers to maintain an inventory of all hazardous materials used by contractors on
      Cannon AFB and the locations the materials will be stored and used.
2. Workplace Requirements:
   2.1. Each workplace using potentially hazardous materials will maintain a HAZCOM binder.
   It must be kept in a readily accessible area and all workers must be aware of its location. The
   binder will be sub-divided and contain the following information:
      2.1.1. Tab A: AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication.
      2.1.2. Tab B: A copy of this instruction.
      2.1.3. Tab C: Workplace Hazardous Chemical Inventory from the Enterprise
      Environmental Safety and Occupational Health Management Information System
      (EESOHMIS).
      2.1.4. Tab D: A current manufacturer-specific SDS (or cross-reference) for each
      potentially hazardous material used in the workplace as listed on the chemical inventory.
      2.1.5. Tab E: Workplace Specific Hazardous Communication Training Plan.
      2.1.6. Tab F: A list of all non-routine tasks involving potentially hazardous materials to
      include protective measures the workers must follow. If the protective measure
      information exists in a technical order, operating instruction, or standard operation
      procedure, the document can be referenced.
 4                                                   CANNONAFBI90-821 23 OCTOBER 2013


        2.1.7. Tab G: A copy of all Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) Flight routine industrial
        hygiene survey reports and all special survey reports completed during the past two years
        and copies of all replies to those reports.
     2.2. BE will be consulted if there are questions regarding the applicability of this instruction
     to a particular work area.
3. Safety Data Sheets (SDSs):
     3.1. Supervisors are responsible for ensuring that SDSs are available for each hazardous
     chemical used within their respective work center and are readily available to all employees.
     These SDSs will be maintained in TAB D of the HAZCOM binder.
     3.2. The workplace supervisor must coordinate any addition to the workplace chemical
     inventory with BE in advance so that proper protective measures can be identified. As
     determined in the EESOHMIS database or during BE’s workplace surveys, the chemical
     inventory will be reviewed and the SDSs will be inventoried to ensure that all SDSs are
     present.
     3.3. The SDS master file containing all hazardous chemicals used in workplaces at Cannon
     AFB is the EESOHMIS database. This SDS information is readily available to all base
     workers through directly from the EESOHMIS database, or through BE and CE
     Environmental.
     3.4. Anyone desiring additional SDS information may contact BE at extension 784-4063.
     Emergency services requested after normal duty hours will be directed to the Command Post
     at 784-2253.
     3.5. To comply with federal hazardous materials regulations, the base Fire Department will
     maintain SDSs for all hazardous chemicals surpassing the threshold planning quantity (TPQ)
     limit, IAW 40 CFR 370.21 (SDS Reporting). CEEI, Environmental Section, is responsible
     for maintaining and updating the list of TPQ hazardous chemicals.
4. Labels and Other Forms of Warning.
     4.1. Supervisors will ensure all incoming containers of hazardous chemicals/materials
     brought onto, or used within this installation will be issued through the HAZMART. Any
     hazardous chemical/material obtained with the Government Purchase Card must be taken to
     the HAZMART for data tracking requirements. HAZMART personnel will ensure that these
     products have been properly labeled, tagged or marked as required by 29 CFR 1910.1200(f)
     and DoDI 6050.5-H, DoD Hazardous Chemical Warning Labeling System. The workplace
     supervisor will also ensure:
        4.1.1. Each container of hazardous chemical(s) in the workplace is labeled, tagged or
        marked with the identity of the hazardous chemical(s) contained therein, the appropriate
        hazard warning(s), and the name, address of the manufacturer, importer, or other
        responsible party.
        4.1.2. Existing labels on incoming containers of hazardous chemicals are not removed or
        defaced unless the container is immediately marked with the required information.
        4.1.3. Transfer containers, vats, tanks and other containers filled with hazardous
        materials are properly labeled in accordance with AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.6.6.
CANNONAFBI90-821 23 OCTOBER 2013                                                             5


      4.1.4. DD Form 2521, Hazardous Chemical Warning Label (8.5” x 11”), or DD Form
      2522, Hazardous Chemical Warning Label (4” x 6”), signs, placards, process sheets,
      batch tickets, or other such written materials will be used to label these containers in
      accordance with AFI 90-821.
5. Employee Information and Training:
   5.1. Unit commanders will ensure supervisors and employees of work areas using hazardous
   materials receive training.
   5.2. Supervisors will ensure subordinate workers are trained on the AF HAZCOM program
   before the workers handle or are occupationally exposed to hazardous materials. The
   supervisor, the organization occupational health coordinator, or other formal organization
   training structure may provide this training. Supervisors will supplement this training to
   provide information on work area specific chemical hazards. Training for newly assigned
   personnel will normally be completed within 15 days of assignment.
   5.3. In conjunction with the industrial hygiene survey, BE will identify shop-specific items
   requiring training (i.e., OSHA Expanded Standards). Supervisors will develop lesson plans
   covering the training items with help from PH and BE. Supervisors will conduct annual
   occupational health training for all workers using the latest BE industrial hygiene/special
   survey reports.
   5.4. All training will be documented on AF Form 55 or equivalent.
6. Hazardous Chemical Inventory:
   6.1. The work area supervisor will develop the Hazardous Chemical Inventory. BE will
   review this inventory during periodic surveys.
   6.2. The supervisors will maintain the Hazardous Chemical Inventory in Tab C of their
   HAZCOM binder and update it as necessary.
   6.3. As a minimum, the inventory will include the identity of each hazardous chemical used
   in the work area, as it appears on the SDS or as cross-referenced by national stock number.
   The inventory may be compiled from EESOHMIS. Proprietary information will not be
   included on the Hazardous Chemical Inventory. This inventory must include all materials
   used for all tasks within the workplace even if purchased with IMPAC card.
7. Non-Routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials:
   7.1. Non-routine tasks are:
      7.1.1. Those tasks included with a work area’s activities but performed infrequently; for
      example, cleaning a solvent tank and changing the solvent or cleaning up spills.
      7.1.2. Temporary duties performed outside an individual’s normal Air Force Specialty
      Code (AFSC) or job series.
   7.2. The work area supervisor will list all non-routine tasks performed in the work area
   which involve hazardous materials. This list will be maintained in Tab F of the HAZCOM
   book and updates to the list will be sent to BE. The supervisor will ensure work area OIs
   thoroughly describe non-routine tasks, associated hazards and controls for the infrequent
   tasks performed in the work area. Operating instructions do not need to be prepared if
 6                                                  CANNONAFBI90-821 23 OCTOBER 2013


     technical orders or other official documents adequately describe these tasks and the
     protective measures. Supervisors will ensure workers review these procedures before
     performing the non-routine tasks.
     7.3. When workers temporarily perform duties outside their normal jobs, the supervisor of
     the activity will ensure these workers have received the following training prior to beginning
     the activity:
        7.3.1. Supplemental training, as necessary, on work area-specific chemical hazards and
        associated controls.
        7.3.2. The supervisor of the non-routine task will forward training documentation to the
        worker’s regular supervisor describing the training conducted.
8. Ordering, Handling or Using Potentially Hazardous Materials:
     8.1. AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, establishes procedures and standards
     for all hazardous materials except munitions, medical supply items and hazardous waste. The
     base HAZMART (784-7981) manages hazardous material procurement on Cannon AFB.
     8.2. Anyone ordering hazardous materials must enter a request into EESOHMIS and provide
     a copy of the manufacturer-specific SDS to the base HAZMART. Personnel will not borrow
     chemicals from other work areas.
     8.3. A joint review by the supervisor and BE will precede all newly planned uses of
     potentially hazardous materials. Tech data, hazardous material information, SDS and other
     BE resources shall be carefully reviewed to properly identify any hazards and to assign
     necessary controls. Items especially critical in this review include labeling of containers
     (especially proper labeling of in-shop containers), ventilation, fire protection, personal
     protective and first-aid equipment, training (general hazard familiarization), chemical
     disposal, and written procedures.
9. Contractor Operations:
     9.1. The 27 SOCONS Contracting Officer (CO) will assist the 27th Special Operations Civil
     Engineer Squadron (SOCES), BE and work area supervisors, if requested, in advising
     contractors of hazardous chemicals they may encounter and protective measures needed in
     the normal course of their work in the work area. The CO will also tell the contractor SDS
     information is available through BE and CE Environmental and provide information on the
     labeling system.
     9.2. At the pre-performance conference and subsequently during the contract performance
     period, the requiring activity Quality Assurance Evaluator will advise work area supervisors
     and AF employees monitoring the performance of contractors of hazardous chemicals
     introduced by the contractor. The contractor is required to submit information on the use of
     hazardous materials according to the Federal Acquisition Regulation clause 52.223-3,
     Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data.

                                              TONY D. BAUERNFEIND, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
CANNONAFBI90-821 23 OCTOBER 2013                                                 7


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, 1 November 2004
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 30 March 2005
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 5 August 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 23 August 2011
DoDI 6050.05, DoD Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program, 15 August 2006
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), 29 CFR 1910.1200, Hazard
Communication
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 847, Recommendations for Change of Publication
DD Form 2521, Hazardous Chemical Warning Label (8.5” x 11”)
DD Form 2522, Hazardous Chemical Warning Label (4” x 6”)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACO—Administrative Contracting Officer
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight
CE—Civil Engineering
EESOHMIS—Enterprise Environmental Safety and Occupational Health Management
Information System
HAZCOM—Hazardous Communication
HAZMART—Hazardous Material Pharmacy
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
SDS—Safety Data Sheet
PH—Public Health Flight
TPQ—Threshold Planning Quantity
