BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                   CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
27TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING                                                    INSTRUCTION 10-243
                                                                                           3 MARCH 2008

                                                                                                 Operations

                                                                  AUGMENTATION DUTY PROGRAM



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. This publication is only
                        available digitally on the Cannon AFB portal page located on the AF portal. If you
                        lack access, contact the OPR to obtain a copy.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 27 SOW/XP                                                                Certified by: 27 SOMSS/CC
                                                                                  (Lt Col Sean Harrington)
                                                                                                Pages: 16

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 10-2, Readiness. It applies to all units assigned,
attached or associated with the 27th Special Operations Wing (SOW). This instruction explains local pol-
icy, procedures and responsibilities for the Augmentation Duty program at Cannon Air Force Base. This
publication applies to all officer and enlisted personnel assigned to Cannon AFB. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this document are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
37-123 (to be AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

Section A—Mission

1. Overview. The Augmentation Duty program, governed by AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty,
exists to utilize people assets in other than their normal assigned or Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC)
duties. The purpose of this instruction is to establish local guidelines for a successful Augmentation Duty
program. The Augmentation Duty Program is designed to identify, place and train a pool of individuals to
temporarily augment units that will be short of required manpower during exercises, contingencies, war-
time or emergency situations to include tenant deployments. This program is not intended to augment unit
manning shortages during normal, routine work schedules with the exception of Security Forces when
requested by the 27 SOSFS/CC. This instruction explains local policy, responsibilities and procedures for
the Augmentation Duty program at Cannon Air Force Base. Augmentees will perform augmentation
duties in accordance with this instruction and AFPAM 10-243. The goal is to have augmentees assigned
to the program for 2 years. If unable, it is the responsibility of the unit providing the augmentee to have a
trained replacement appointed, in writing, prior to the augmentee departing the base or being appointed to
other duties. The 27 SOW and all Cannon AFB tenant units will participate in the Cannon Augmentation
Duty program. They will provide augmentees in accordance with Augmentation Duty program directives
and as specified by the Augmentation Review Board. (See Figure 1. for the Org flow chart.)
2                                                           CANNONAFBI10-243 3 MARCH 2008


2. Assumptions. The Cannon AD Program is designed to activate the deployment related functions or
SF and S&R augmentation. Any event necessitating the activation of several AD teams may warrant shut-
ting down the wing’s nonessential services and enlisting augmentation from all wing resources. Search
and Recovery Teams are identified as base requirements.

Figure 1. Cannon AFB Augmentation Duty Organization Flow Chart




Section B—Responsibilites

3. The 27 SOW/CC Will:
    3.1. Authorize the activation of AD personnel at any time deemed necessary. Group commanders will
    release AD personnel immediately.
    3.2. Direct units on Cannon AFB to support the program with required quotas.
    3.3. Appoint a base Augmentation Program Manager for the overall responsibility of the program.
CANNONAFBI10-243 3 MARCH 2008                                                                              3


4. The 27 SOW/CV will :
   4.1. The Vice Wing Commander is the Chair and acts as the Director of the Cannon Augmentation
   Duty Program

5. Group Commanders will:
   5.1. Serve as members, attend and vote on any issues during the Augmentation Review Board.
   5.2. Appoint, in writing, a Group Augmentation Duty manager to track personnel assigned to Aug-
   mentation Duty positions.

6. Unit Commanders will:
   6.1. Appoint, in writing, a unit Augmentation Duty monitor to track personnel assigned to Augmen-
   tation Duty positions and communicate projected changes in availability.
   6.2. Appoint sufficient augmentees and alternates (in writing) to Augmentation Duty teams. The goal
   is to have augmentees assigned to the program for 2 years. If unable, it is the responsibility of the unit
   providing the augmentee to have a trained replacement appointed, in writing, prior to the augmentee
   departing the base or being appointed to other duties.
   6.3. Release augmentees for scheduled Augmentation Duty training and augmentation duty.

7. Augmentation Review Board (ARB)
   7.1. The ARB approves, prioritizes and validates augmentee sourcing requirements and distributes to
   groups based on fair-share calculations as stipulated in this instruction.
   7.2. Consist of 27 SOW/CV, SOMSG/CC, SOG/CC, SOMXG/CC, SOMDG/CC, 27 SOW/DS, 27
   SOMSS/MOF and 27 SOMSS/DPM with 27 SOW/CCC as an advisor.
   7.3. Meet at least once a year or as needed to review requirements; approve any new requirements
   and/or exemptions; allocate/reallocate taskings to fill augmentation requirements as deemed neces-
   sary; and resolve any issues requiring attention.
   7.4. The Augmentation Duty Program Director and the Augmentation Program Manager will facili-
   tate ARB meetings.

8. Augmentation Program Manager is the central point of contact for the Augmentation Duty Pro-
gram. The Augmentation Program Manager and the Augmentation Duty Program Director will serve as
Augmentation Duty program facilitators. The Augmentation Program Manager is the central point of con-
tact for the Augmentation Duty team chiefs.
   8.1. Augmentation Program Manager will:
       8.1.1. Oversee the management of the Augmentation Duty program.
       8.1.2. Review this instruction annually and coordinate appropriate changes.
       8.1.3. Keep on file current Augmentation Duty team chief appointment letters and continuity
       binder.
       8.1.4. Coordinate annual review of Augmentation Duty team requirements and group tasking for
       potential re-distribution.
4                                                            CANNONAFBI10-243 3 MARCH 2008


       8.1.5. Schedule and produce ARB and AWG meeting agendas to detail the topics to be discussed.
       8.1.6. Record and publish ARB meeting minutes.
       8.1.7. Work with the 27 SOMSS Manpower Office (MOF) and ARB to validate augmentee
       requirements/fair share distribution.
       8.1.8. Address all requests with the AWG prior to presenting them to the ARB.
       8.1.9. Ensure all unresolved items from the AWG and previous ARB are brought before the ARB
       for resolution.
       8.1.10. Prepare Augmentation Duty team brief once a year to the ARB.
       8.1.11. Identify the procedures for tasking, tracking and training of augmentees. The augmenta-
       tion program tasking will be managed at the Group Augmentation Program manager level. Wing
       staff agencies will be considered a separate group. Tasking for SFS and S&R teams will be based
       on the number of assigned personnel within each group on a percentage basis.
       8.1.12. Ensure Augmentation Duty team chiefs maintain current augmentee team rosters.
       8.1.13. Ensure Augmentation Duty team chiefs are offering timely and appropriate training to
       augmentees.
       8.1.14. Maintain an accurate, up-to-date, listing of all Group Augmentation Duty program man-
       agers.
       8.1.15. Brief all team chiefs and group managers on requirements, procedures and their specific
       responsibilities.

9. Augmentation Working Group (AWG)
    9.1. Chaired by Augmentation Duty Program Director, the AWG is comprised of: Augmentation Pro-
    gram Manager, Group Augmentation Duty managers, Augmentation Duty team chiefs, 27 SOMSS/
    MOF and 27 SOMSS/DPM.
    9.2. The Augmentation Program Manager and Group Augmentation Duty managers will meet once
    every 6 months or more often if directed by the Program Director to determine changes to require-
    ments, review the status of augmentation duty fills, training and identify issues to the ARB.

10. Augmentation Duty Functional Team Chiefs are supported by the Group Managers and are
responsible to schedule, conduct and document augmentee training for their specific function. Augmenta-
tion Duty team chiefs are responsible for the use of augmentees.
    10.1. Augmentation Duty team chiefs will:
       10.1.1. Maintain an accurate listing of all augmentees assigned to their teams and will task aug-
       mentees through the appropriate Group Augmentation Duty manager.
       10.1.2. Maintain an accurate listing of all Group Augmentation Duty managers.
       10.1.3. Provide list of any unit not meeting their Augmentation Duty tasking to Augmentation
       Program Manager.
       10.1.4. Provide an Augmentation Duty training schedule to appropriate Group Augmentation
       Duty managers and Augmentation Program Manager.
CANNONAFBI10-243 3 MARCH 2008                                                                            5


      10.1.5. Provide documentation of training, such as AF Form 2426 or a training certificate, to pro-
      vide a written record of training to the individual and his/her Unit Augmentation Monitor.
      10.1.6. Provide a list of augmentee duty and training no-shows to respective Group Augmentation
      Duty managers and Augmentation Program Manager NLT 24 hours after augmentees are declared
      no-shows for training.
      10.1.7. Maintain an Augmentation Duty training folder, or similar tracking tool, on each assigned
      augmentee and track augmentee contributions to the Augmentation Duty program IAW AFPAM
      10-243.
      10.1.8. Provide quarterly training reports to Augmentation Program Manager, NLT close of busi-
      ness on the 5th day of the month following the end of the quarter, identifying all assigned augmen-
      tees and their status of training. The report should address augmentee usage, any upcoming
      scheduled training and any no-shows for duty or training.
      10.1.9. Ensure augmentees are issued required equipment and any specialized clothing not nor-
      mally issued through their owning squadron. Note: Security Forces will issue any additional
      equipment as needed for the performance of the assigned duties. Each Augmentee is responsible
      for returning this equipment to Security Forces upon their completion of the Augmentation duty
      period.
      10.1.10. Conduct a training review once per month to identify individual training requirements.
      10.1.11. Document all training and exercise recalls of the Augmentation Duty program.
      10.1.12. Work with Group Augmentation Duty managers to ensure all augmentees and their alter-
      nates are trained adequately both in initial training and also refresher training.

11. Group Augmentation Duty Managers will:
   11.1. Be responsible for the oversight of the Augmentation Duty program within their group.
   11.2. Attend all AWG meetings.
   11.3. Provide the equitable distribution of Augmentation Duty taskings within their group and coor-
   dinate with other group Augmentation Duty managers for any additional support.
   11.4. Ensure the required quantity of augmentees, including alternates is identified, trained and avail-
   able to meet 100% of required taskings at all times.
   11.5. Notify Augmentation Duty Functional team chief when augmentee is selected for permanent
   change of station (PCS) and ensure replacement personnel are trained before augmentee departs for
   PCS.
   11.6. Provide copies of all Augmentation Duty appointment letters to the appropriate Augmentation
   Duty Functional team chief.
   11.7. Forward all squadron commander justification letters to the Augmentation Duty team chief.
   11.8. Obtain training folders from respective team chief for personnel relieved of augmentation
   duties.
   11.9. Provide written feedback, signed by augmentee’s unit commander, on all augmentee no-shows
   to respective team chief.
6                                                             CANNONAFBI10-243 3 MARCH 2008


12. Unit Augmentation Duty Monitors will:
    12.1. Ensure augmentees are identified and selected to fulfill Augmentation Duty commitments. The
    goal is to have augmentees assigned to the program for a minimum of 2 years.
    12.2. Coordinate with UDMs to mitigate augmentee unavailability due to the AEF battle rhythm.
    12.3. Ensure the unit commander signs appointment letters for all augmentees; letters are then sent to
    the Group Augmentation Duty manager for endorsement (Attachment 2).
    12.4. Identify replacements to the affected Group Augmentation Duty manager, as soon as it is known
    that the augmentee is projected for departure (Attachment 3).
    12.5. Contact augmentee’s chain of command to verify release of augmentees for training, exercises
    and contingencies.
    12.6. Elevate availability problems to the squadron commander and respective Group Augmentation
    Duty manager.
    12.7. Immediately notify the Group Augmentation Duty manager when personnel assigned are
    unavailable for augmentation duty.
    12.8. Review an individual’s status on the Augmentation Duty program with the appropriate unit
    commander prior to their assignment to fill UTCs, departure for TDY, leave or rotational contingency
    TDY requirements.
    12.9. Ensure that augmentees who PCS or separate out-process through their assigned augmentation
    duty team chiefs.

13. The SOMSS Manpower Office (MOF) will:
    13.1. Determine Augmentation Duty manpower requirements under unit locally defined scenarios
    and appropriately compute augmentation requirements for each Group.
    13.2. Review and validate all Augmentation Duty exemptions and requirements.
    13.3. Calculate fair share distributions by group for presentation to the AWG and ARB and provide
    fair share distributions to groups prior to the ARB (Attachment 4 and Attachment 5).
    13.4. Review all unit requests for augmentation and validate the required number of augmentees.
    13.5. Submit changes to any requirements to the AWG (through Augmentation Program Manager) for
    approval prior to any unit being augmented.
    13.6. Revalidate all requirements on an annual basis or as needed.
    13.7. Upon completion of exemption request validation, MOF will process the exemption requests
    through the Augmentation Program Manager to the AWG chairman for concurrence.

14. Augmentees will:
    14.1. Perform duties IAW this instruction and AFPAM 10-243. Once appointed, augmentees should
    be expected to serve a minimum of 2 years.
    14.2. Coordinate with their unit Augmentation Duty monitor for all leaves, TDYs or other situations
    rendering them unavailable to perform augmentee duties.
CANNONAFBI10-243 3 MARCH 2008                                                                            7


   14.3. Advise the unit Augmentation Duty monitor of needed replacement action within 2 weeks of
   being selected for PCS, extended TDY, or separation/retirement.
   14.4. Attend all training and respond to all Augmentation Duty augmentee recalls.

Section C—How To Use Augmentees

15. Reporting Procedures For Augmentees
   15.1. Initiating Augmentation Duty Recall:
   15.2. Only the 27 SOW Commander or Vice Commander can approve augmentee call-ups for
   base-wide exercises, contingencies and emergency conditions.
   15.3. In event of base-wide recall: Augmentees will report to their unit for accountability. Immedi-
   ately after sign-in, augmentees then report to their unit Augmentation Duty team chiefs if they are des-
   ignated to perform Augmentation duties upon a base recall.
   15.4. Limited recall: Augmentees will report to their units for accountability. Immediately after
   sign-in, augmentees then report to their Augmentation Duty team chiefs if they are designated to per-
   form Augmentation duties upon a limited base recall.
   15.5. Augmentation Duty Call-up without recall: Augmentation Duty teams may be notified to report
   for their particular duties without initiating a wing recall. Under these circumstances, the affected
   Augmentation Duty team chief will obtain approval from 27 SOW/CC or SOW/CV to call up aug-
   mentees. Once approved, the Augmentation Duty team chief will contact the augmentee’s Group
   Augmentation Duty manager of the requirement for the augmentee to report for duty; the Group Aug-
   mentation Duty manager will accomplish the call-up through unit monitors and ensure the augmentee
   reports for augmentation duties. Upon notification, augmentees will report to their respective Aug-
   mentation Duty team chiefs for Augmentation duties and notify their normal work centers of their sta-
   tus, unless otherwise directed.
   15.6. Once Augmentees report to duty, they are under ultimate supervision of the respective Augmen-
   tee Duty team until released back to duty.



                                               TIMOTHY J. LEAHY, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 27th Special Operations Wing
8                                                            CANNONAFBI10-243 3 MARCH 2008


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
APT—Air Passenger Terminal
ARB—Augmentation Review Board
AWG—Augmentation Duty Working Group
CDF—Cargo Deployment Function
DCC—Deployment Control Center
DPT—Deployment Processing Team
DVO—Deployment Vehicle Operations
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
S&R—Search and Rescue
SOW—Special Operations Wing
UCC—Unit Control Center
UDM—Unit Deployment Manager

Terms
AUGMENTEE—Person used in other than their assigned duties and transferred to the operational
control of another unit/activity. For example, a 3S0X1 performing Security Force duties during exercises.
AUGMENTATION DUTY REQUIREMENT—A validated manpower requirement during exercise,
contingency, emergency and wartime conditions to be filled by available personnel resources.
AUGMENTATION REVIEW BOARD (ARB)—The ARB is the governing body of the Augmentation
Duty program, chaired by 27 SOW/CV, and is comprised of group commanders, 27 SOW/DS, 27 SOW/
CCC, 27 SOMSS/MOF and 27 SOMSS/DPMP.
AUGMENTATION DUTY PROGRAM—A mandatory program designed to meet the temporary
personnel shortages of local commanders caused by situations or conditions which require the
realignment of existing personnel resources during exercise, contingency, emergency or wartime
situations.
AUGMENTATION DUTY TEAM CHIEF—The individual appointed within an agency that has
validated manpower requirements for augmentees and is responsible for monitoring, managing and
training augmentees and reporting the status of their programs to the Augmentation Program Manager.
AUGMENTATION DUTY WORKING GROUP (AWG)—The AWG is chaired by 27 SOW/CV and
is comprised of: 27 SOMSS/MOF, 27 SOMSS/DPM, the Group Augmentation Duty managers and
Augmentation Duty team chiefs.
CANNONAFBI10-243 3 MARCH 2008                                                                        9


AUGMENTATION PROGRAM MANAGER—Directly responsible to 27 SOW/CV for program
administration; basically responsible for managing and coordinating the base Augmentation Duty
program
AUGMENTED UNIT—Unit using an augmentee resource.
AUGMENTING UNIT—The unit providing the augmentee resource.
AVAILABLE POPULATION—The total number of personnel resources that can be used to fill
validated Augmentation Duty requirements; the pool of personnel available after subtracting people
identified for UTC deployment and mission essential exempted requirements.
DEPLOYMENT MACHINE—Refers to Deployment Control Center, Cargo Deployment Function, Air
Passenger Terminal and Personnel Deployment Function Augmentation Duty teams.
EXEMPTION—A position (and incumbent) declared mission essential, protecting the incumbent from
being tasked to perform other than primary duties; in short, the individual is exempt from Augmentation
Duty and is not counted as part of the squadron’s available population.
FAIR SHARE—The total Augmentation Duty requirements divided by total base available population
(minus exempted personnel and those personnel who are UTC tasked) equals the percentage used to
determine each unit’s fair share tasking.
MIS—Management Information Summary; document maintained by Manpower used in the process of
validating requirements.
MISSION ESSENTIAL—Minimum number of individuals required to work 12 hours a day, 6 days a
week to sustain mission capability.
RECLAMA—Request for release from tasking requirement.
TASKING—A requirement for augmentation validated by manpower.
UNIT AUGMENTATION DUTY MONITOR—The individual (appointed by the unit commander)
responsible for managing their respective unit’s Augmentation Duty program.
UNIT DEPLOYMENT MANAGER (UDM)—The individual (appointed by the unit commander)
responsible for managing their respective unit’s deployment program and support.
UNIT WORST CASE DEPLOYMENT—A unit’s total deployment tasking based on the MIS which
shows the expected maximum number of personnel required to deploy at any one time in the worst case
scenario.
USER—An agency that has a validated manpower requirement to be augmented by another unit in order
to meet responsibilities during an exercise, contingency, emergency or wartime scenario.
10                                                           CANNONAFBI10-243 3 MARCH 2008


                                             Attachment 2

               SAMPLE AUGMENTATION DUTY ASSIGNMENT MEMORANDUM


MEMORANDUM FOR AFFECTED GROUP AUGMENTATION DUTY MANAGER


FROM: AUGMENTATION PROGRAM MANAGER


SUBJECT: Augmentation Duty Assignments


1. Per the Augmentation Review Board held on XXXXXX, your organization is assigned to fill the fol-
lowing position in the Cannon Augmentation Duty program during contingency and exercise situations
and at other times as the Augmentation Duty team chief directs in order to complete the Cannon AFB mis-
sion. The selected individual must serve in his/her Augmentation Duty position for a minimum of 2 years
from the date they are certified as “trained” by the Augmentation Duty team chief.


2. Please ensure your tasked Commander Support Staff personnel load the following information into
MILPDS/AUGMENTATION DUTY Access database for this individual:


     Augmentation Duty Title: (provided by Augmentation Duty team chief)
     Active Status: 2 (Active)
     Augmentation Duty Position Code: (provided by Augmentation Duty team chief)
     Date Assigned: (provided by Augmentation Duty team chief)


3. Please provide a memorandum to the above office certifying completion of this action, to include the
following information for our records:


     Rank/Last Name, First Name, MI:
     SSN:
     DOS:
     Organization/Office Symbol:
     Duty Phone:
     Home Phone:
     Home Address:
CANNONAFBI10-243 3 MARCH 2008                                                                         11


4. This augmentee requires training for their Augmentation Duty position. Please complete necessary
paperwork within 10 duty days to schedule them for the following class/classes: (Training requirements
provided by Augmentation Duty team chief).


5. Your assistance in meeting the Augmentation Duty review board requirements is appreciated. POC for
this tasking is (Augmentation Duty team chief’s name, rank, office symbol, duty phone). Feel free to con-
tact the Augmentation Duty team chief for any pertinent information.


6. This memorandum requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974 authorized by Title 10, U.S.C. 8013.




                                                    Augmentation Program Manager’s Signature Block
12                                                             CANNONAFBI10-243 3 MARCH 2008


                                              Attachment 3

     SAMPLE AUGMENTATION DUTY APPOINTMENT/REPLACEMENT MEMORANDUM


MEMORANDUM FOR (Group Manager’s Office Address)
                       (Augmentation Duty Team Chief’s Office Symbol)
                       IN TURN


FROM: (Tasked Squadron Commander)


SUBJECT: Assigning/Replacing Augmentation Duty Augmentee


1. The following individual is being reassigned or is replacing an individual on your Augmentation Duty
program. The newly assigned individual has at least 24 months retainability, to allow sufficient time for a
minimum Augmentation Duty service commitment of 2 years.


2. The following information is for:
     ________ Initial Assignment into Augmentation Duty Program
     ________ Replacement of (name, rank, SSN, position)
     RANK/LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, MI:
     SSN:
     DOS:
     ORGANIZATION AND OFFICE SYMBOL:
     DUTY PHONE:
     HOME PHONE:
     HOME ADDRESS:


3. The reason for requesting this replacement is:
     ________ PCS
     ________ PCA to (organization and office symbol)
     ________ Separation/Retirement
     ________ Medical or Administrative Disqualification
     ________ Other (Attach Memorandum of Justification as to why your organization desires to replace
     current individual with another person assigned by commander.)
CANNONAFBI10-243 3 MARCH 2008                                                                    13


4. This memorandum requires collecting and maintaining information protected by Privacy Act of 1974
authorized by Title 10, U.S.C. 8013.




                                   Signature
                                   (Tasked Organization’s Unit Commander)


1st Ind,


MEMORANDUM FOR (Address of affected Augmentation Duty Team Chief)


Concur/nonconcur




                                   Signature
                                   (Tasked Organization’s Group Augmentation Duty Manager)
14                                                             CANNONAFBI10-243 3 MARCH 2008


                                              Attachment 4

               AUGMENTATION DUTY PROCESS/FAIR SHARE CALCULATION


1. Overview of the Augmentation Duty Process: First, Augmentation Duty requirements are validated by
27 SOMSS/MOF (Wing Manpower Office) and approved by the ARB. Second, available personnel
resources are identified and validated for all base organizations. Third, the Manpower Office determines
the fair share tasking percentage. Finally, the ARB approves the fair share personnel resource distribution
and the number of fair share taskings is matched to group available populations to determine the number
of Augmentation Duty resources each group will provide to fill requirements.


2. Fair Share Calculation Process:


Step One: Manpower Office validates Augmentation Duty requirements
     -- Organizations requesting augmentees provide written requests for augmentation to 27 SOMSS/
     MOF (include information shown in Attachment 5 as the minimum)


     -- Manpower reviews the request and ensures the number of augmentees requested is valid.


     -- The ARB is the final approval authority for all Augmentation Duty augmentee requirements.


Step Two: Determine total base available population
     -- For each squadron, identify the number of “worst case scenario” deployment positions using the
     MIS.


     -- Determine number of other valid exemptions for each squadron.


     -- Subtract deployment positions and valid exemptions from each squadron’s assigned population to
     get the squadron’s available population.


     -- Combine all squadron available populations.


     -- Result = Total Base Available Population.
CANNONAFBI10-243 3 MARCH 2008                                                                          15


Step Three: 27SOMSS/MOF determines fair share tasking percentage:
   Fair Share                                    Total Augmentation Duty Requirements
   Tasking (%)                                   =        ------------------------------------------
                                                 Total Base Available Population


   Note 1: Fair share determination is made at the squadron level, but tasked at group level (versus
   squadron level) because ARB members are the group commanders.
   Note 2: If necessary, the fair share equation can be adjusted to any level when the data for valid
   exemptions is known. For example, you’d compute this if a squadron wants to know how much out of
   the group’s fair share tasking they owe.
   Note 3: Group Augmentation Duty monitors will work with the Unit Augmentation Duty monitors to
   determine the individuals to fill all Augmentation Duty taskings for their groups.


   Squadron                             Total Group Augmentation Duty Requirement Taskings
   Fair Share                    =      ----------------------------------------------------------
   Tasking Percentage (%)               Total Group Available Population


Step Four: After the ARB approves the fair share distribution, 27 SOMSS/MO matches the fair share task-
ing percentage to group available populations to determine the number of Augmentation Duty require-
ments each group will fill.
16                                                             CANNONAFBI10-243 3 MARCH 2008


                                              Attachment 5

                            ASSUMPTIONS (RULES OF ENGAGEMENT)
1. Fair share calculations are determined using TSgt and below enlisted manpower requirements minus
validated exemptions.


2. Exemptions are validated by 27 SOMSS/MOF and approved by the RRB. Exemptions include:


     (a) All Aircrew including enlisted
     (b) Commanders
     (c) Unit Deployment Managers (UDM)
     (d) Battle Staff Members
     (e) Deployment Processing Team (DPT) Members
     (f) Deployment Control Center (DCC) Members
     (g) Unit Control Center (UCC) Members
     (h) Emergency Operations Center (EOC) Members
     (i) Mission Essential (must provide specific justification; number of individuals for each task to be
     performed in order to sustain absolute minimum essential base operations during wartime conditions)


3. Only those positions tasked to the base populace will be identified as Augmentation Duty requirements.
Note, that some units use their own manpower resources to fill valid Augmentation Duty requirements
even though their available resources are zero or less. This is done when the unit wants to maintain control
over their Augmentation Duty personnel. In these cases, the total Augmentation Duty requirement is iden-
tified and the total amount tasked to the base populace is separated. The Augmentation Duty requirement
for the base includes only those requirements tasked to the general base populace. For example, if a unit
has a requirement for 16 positions, but only 4 of the 16 positions are to be filled by the base populace,
these 4 are Augmentation Duty requirements. The other 12 positions are considered filled by internal
Augmentation Duty augmentees.


4. Augmentation Duty augmentees will be used on a temporary basis for short periods of time (normally
48 to 72 hours), but can be used for up to 120 days; they will not be used to exceed the length of the situ-
ation. For purposes of planning, Augmentation Duty resources are normally expected to be used for one
week or less.
