BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     CANNON AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
CANNON AIR FORCE BASE                                                     32-1001

                                                                         9 FEBRUARY 2010

                                                                            Civil Engineering

                                                                  ENERGY MANAGEMENT

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 27 SOCES/CEAO                                   Certified by: 27 SOCES/CC (Lt Col Anne
                                                                                 Coverston)
                                                                                   Pages: 13


This instruction implements AFPD 90-17, Energy Management,16 July 2009. It establishes
responsibilities and procedures outlining Energy Management policies for Cannon Air Force
Base (AFB). It applies to all assigned, attached or associated units to the 27th Special
Operations Wing (27 SOW), Cannon AFB. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s through local
publications/forms managers.

1. Objectives.
   1.1. By Executive Order 13423, Cannon AFB has been tasked with reducing its energy
   consumption by 3% annually through the end of FY 2015, or 30% by the end of FY 2015,
   relative to the baseline of Cannon AFB’s energy use in FY 2003. This instruction is written
   to provide proper energy management at Cannon AFB consistent with Air Force Policy
   Directive (AFPD) 23-3 Energy Management (Sep 1993), Air Force Energy Program
   Procedural Memorandum (AFEPPM) 04-1 (Nov 2004), United States Air Force (USAF) and
   Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) policies and mandates for meeting energy
   efficiency goals, closely related environmental compliance requirements, and decreasing
   operational funds.
2                                               CANNONAFBI32-1001 9 FEBRUARY 2010


    1.2. All organization commanders, both assigned and tenant, are ultimately responsible for
    meeting Cannon AFB energy efficiency goals and for implementing energy related
    directives.
2. Organization and Responsibilities.
    2.1. The 27th Special Operations Wing Commander (27 SOW/CC) will be responsible for
    establishing energy management programs, identifying requirements and executing the
    program to comply with this instruction.
    2.2. Energy Management Steering Group (EMSG). The EMSG will be the focal point for
    energy-related matters.    The EMSG will brief in conjunction with the Energy,
    Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council (EESOHC). The 27 SOW/CC or
    CV will chair the EESOHC/EMSG meetings. The EESOHC/EMSG consists of the group
    commanders, senior representatives of selected squadrons and wing agencies, and tenant
    units. The EESOHC/EMSG will meet quarterly, or at the discretion of the chairman.
    2.3. Energy Management Working Group (EMWG).                The EMWG consists of
    representatives of all base squadrons, selected wing agencies, tenant units, and Dorm
    Management. The EMWG will execute the policies and objectives of the EMSG. The
    EMWG will be briefed in conjunction with the Environmental Management System (EMS)
    Cross Functional Team (CFT) meetings.
    2.4. The chairperson for EMWG/EMS CFT meetings will be designated by the 27 SOW/CC
    or CV. Presentations at EMWG/EMS CFT meetings will be given by the Base Energy
    Management (BEM) team and the Asset Management Flight (27 SOCES/CEA). The group
    will meet at least quarterly or at the discretion of the chairperson and BEM.
    2.5. The BEM will consist of the Base Utilities Manager (BUM) from the 27 SOCES Asset
    Management Flight, Asset Optimization Element (27 SOCES/CEAO) and the Base Fuels
    Manager (BFM), from the 27 SOLRS Fuels Management flight (27 SOLRS/LGRF).
    2.6. The 27th Special Operations Group Commander (27 SOG/CC) is responsible for the
    management of this program for aircraft operations. The 27 SOG/CC is ultimately
    responsible for implementing energy efficiency/savings initiatives for the SOG.
    2.7. The 27th Special Operations Maintenance Group Commander (27 SOMXG/CC) is
    responsible for the management of this program for maintenance operations. The 27
    SOMXG/CC is ultimately responsible for implementing energy efficiency/savings initiatives
    for the SOMXG.
    2.8. The 27th Special Operations Mission Support Group Commander (27 SOMSG/CC) is
    responsible for the management of this program for all mission support operations. The 27
    SOMSG/CC is ultimately responsible for implementing energy efficiency/savings initiatives
    for the SOMSG.
    2.9. The 27th Special Operations Medical Group Commander (27 SOMDG/CC) is
    responsible for the management of this program for medical operations. The 27 SOMDG/CC
    is ultimately responsible for implementing energy efficiency/savings initiatives for the
    SOMDG.
CANNONAFBI32-1001 9 FEBRUARY 2010                                                            3


   2.10. The 27th Special Operations Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander (27
   SOLRS/CC) is responsible for the management of this program for vehicle operations as well
   as fuels efficiency and management.
   2.11. The 27 SOCES/CC is responsible for the management of this program for installation
   facilities, infrastructure and all other energy efficiency and management.
   2.12. 27 SOCES Operations Flight Commander (27 SOCES/CEO) is responsible for
   managing and evaluating the impact of energy disruptions on the 27 SOW’s mission and
   facilities and to take actions to eliminate or reduce them.
3. Energy Management Steering Group (EMSG).
   3.1. The 27 SOW/CC or CV will chair the EMSG. The representatives of the EMSG
   include:
      27th Special Operations Group Commander (27 SOG/CC)
      27th Special Operations Maintenance Group Commander (27 SOMXG/CC)
      27th Special Operations Mission Support Group Commander (27 SOMSG/CC)
      27th Special Operations Medical Group (27 SOMDG/CC)
      27th Special Operations Comptroller Squadron Commander (27 SOCPTS/CC)
      27th Special Operations Contracting Squadron Commander (27 SOCONS/CC)
      27th Special Operations Wing Judge Advocate (27 SOW/JA)
      27th Special Operations Wing Public Affairs (27 SOW/PA)
      27th Special Operations Civil Engineer Squadron Commander (27 SOCES/CC)
      27th Special Operations Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander (27 SOLRS/CC)
      Defense Commissary Agency (DECA) Manager
      Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) Manager
   3.2. The BEM will prepare the agenda for the EMSG. The meeting agenda is designed to
   inform the installation commander of the status of efficiency efforts and the progress being
   made toward established goals. The following issues will be included on the agenda but not
   limited to:
      3.2.1. Total energy costs and energy consumption.
      3.2.2. Progress toward achieving energy goals.
      3.2.3. Reasons for not meeting established goals and get well plan, if any.
      3.2.4. Status of major ongoing energy-related projects.
      3.2.5. Status of utilities funds and expected energy cost savings.
      3.2.6. Proposed energy projects.
      3.2.7. Recognition of key players and organizations.
      3.2.8. Any reports due to higher command levels for the upcoming quarter.
   3.3. The BEM will serve as the EMSG secretary and will draft minutes within two working
   days of each EMSG meeting. The BEM will then coordinate and distribute the meeting
   minutes.
   3.4. The EMSG has the following three primary functions:
4                                             CANNONAFBI32-1001 9 FEBRUARY 2010


       3.4.1. Develop and promote overall base policies to attain the energy-saving goals as
       mandated by Department of Defense (DoD), USAF, AFSOC and/or other requirements
       as they are issued.
       3.4.2. Determine the best methods of efficiency and implementation for Cannon AFB
       before policy and/or project decisions are made.
       3.4.3. Provide recommendations to the chairperson on major policy and budget
       decisions, while allowing the BEM to make minor operational decisions.
4. Energy Management Working Group.
    4.1. The EMWG will implement all matters pertaining to energy efficiency as directed by
    the EMSG.
    4.2. The chairperson will be designated by the 27 SOCES/CC.
    4.3. The members of the EMWG include primary and alternate representatives from:
       27th Special Operations Group (27 SOG)
       27th Special Operations Support Squadron (27 SOSS)
       318th Special Operations Squadron (318 SOS)
       73rd Special Operations Squadron (73 SOS)
       3rd Special Operations Squadron (3 SOS)
       33rd Special Operations Squadron (33 SOS)
       16th Special Operations Squadron (16 SOS)
       551st Special Operations Squadron (551 SOS)
       524th Special Operations Squadron (524 SOS)
       27th Special Operations Maintenance Group (27 SOMXG)
       27th Special Operations Maintenance Operations Squadron (27 SOMOS)
       27th Special Operations Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (27 SOAMXS)
       27th Special Operations Component Maintenance Squadron (27 SOCMS)
       27th Special Operations Equipment Maintenance Squadron (27 SOEMS)
       27th Special Operations Mission Support Group (27 SOMSG)
       27th Special Operations Force Support Squadron (27 SOFSS)
       27th Special Operations Security Forces Squadron (27 SOSFS)
       27th Special Operations Contracting Squadron (27 SOCONS)
       27th Special Operations Civil Engineer Squadron (27 SOCES)
       27th Special Operations Logistics Readiness Squadron (27 SOLRS)
       27th Special Operations Communications Squadron (27 SOCS)
       27th Special Operations Medical Group (27 SOMDG)
       27th Special Operations Aerospace Medicine Squadron (27 SOAMDS)
       27th Special Operations Medical Operation Squadron (27 SOMDOS)
       27th Special Operations Medical Support Squadron (27 SOMDSS)
       27th Special Operations Wing Public Affairs (27 SOW/PA)
       27th Special Operations Comptroller Squadron (27 SOW/CPTS)
CANNONAFBI32-1001 9 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                    5




       27th Special Operations Wing Staff Judge Advocate (27 SOW/JA)
       27th Special Operations Wing Inspector General (27 SOW/IG)
       27th Special Operations Wing Safety (27 SOW/SE)
       27th Special Operations Wing Chapel (27 SOW/HC)
       27th Special Operations Wing Command Post (27 SOW/CP)
       Dorm Management/Housing Office
       Defense Commissary Agency (DECA) Manager
       Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) Manager
       Detachment 1, 373rd Field Training Squadron

Each unit must establish EMWG members and will submit an appointment letter signed by their
Squadron CC, Group CC, or unit chief to the BUM providing names and contact information of
both the primary and the alternate representative. Each unit will update and submit this
appointment letter to the BUM as necessary. It is recommended that the EMWG representatives
(civilian or military) be familiar with their organization’s facilities and also have the authority to
implement changes (civilian representatives graded GS-11 equivalent (or higher) or military
ranked as senior NCOs (E-7 or E-8) or company grade officers (O-1 through O-3)).
   4.4. The EMWG will meet at least quarterly or more frequently at the discretion of the
   chairperson. The responsibilities of the EMWG are as follows:
       4.4.1. Disseminate, implement and enforce energy policies within their group, squadron,
       or tenant unit.
       4.4.2. Direct, train and monitor Facilities Managers on energy efficiency at the facility
       level.
       4.4.3. Keep the 27 SOW/CC, group commanders and tenant leadership informed of
       energy matters.
       4.4.4. Discuss energy-saving initiatives for approval at the EMSG level.
       4.4.5. Work with the BEM to improve energy efficiency in their functional areas.
   4.5. The BEM will use the EMWG to expedite the coordination/implementation of
   programs/ideas/policies. The EMWG will advise the BEM on the contacts within their
   respective squadrons both during and between meetings.
   4.6. EMWG members will ensure 27 SOW/CC policies are implemented in the base’s
   processes where energy savings may be realized. The EMWG will initiate approved
   projects, and provide recommendations to the EMSG as to the best practices and initiatives
   for energy efficiency.
5. Facility Managers.
   5.1. Facility Managers are appointed by each squadron or group commander and shall be
   responsible for energy efficiency duties at the facility level as per the direction of the BEM,
   EMWG and/or the EMSG.
6                                                 CANNONAFBI32-1001 9 FEBRUARY 2010


    5.2. Facility Managers will use the policies and guidelines published by the BEM found in
    operating instructions or directives of the EMSG for managing their respective energy
    efficiency efforts.
5.3 Facility Managers will complete the Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency (AFCESA) –
Energy Conservation for Building Managers Course offered at the Air Force Civil Engineer
Virtual Learning Center website at https://afcesa.csd.disa.mil. After course completion, Facility
Managers will provide a copy of their certificate to the BUM (DSN 681-1090/0349).

5.4 Facility Managers will each complete Energy Efficiency training as part of the Facility
Manager training, and will retake the training as a refresher once each year. To support this
effort, the BEM provides quarterly training opportunities available to all Facility Managers.

5.5 Facility Managers will inspect their facilities monthly using the ―FACILITY MANAGER
CHECKLIST‖ (Attachment 1). This checklist can be found at:
P:\27_SOMSG\27_SOCES\CEA_Asset\CEAO\Energy\CAFBI 23-301 Energy Management.
After completing his/her inspection, the Facility Manager will print his/her name and list the
facilities that he/she inspected. The Facility Manager will then sign and date the checklist, and
supply copy to the BUM (DSN 681-1090/0349.)

5.6 Facility Managers will read and be familiar with AFSOC’s Energy Policy and Mandates
(Attachment 2). Facility Managers will bring their copy of AFSOC’s Energy Policy and
Mandates when they attend Energy Efficiency training given by the BUM.
6. Base Energy Management.
    6.1. The BEM team consists of two personnel, the BUM, who is responsible for all utility
    efficiency programs and the BFM, who is responsible for all base fuel efficiency programs.
    The energy efficiency policy is outlined in AFPD 23-3, Energy Management, AFEPPM 04-1,
    and other more current policy statements and mandates issued by higher headquarters. The
    BEM will maintain complete files of applicable energy policies, regulations and instructions.
    6.2. The BEM will coordinate and orchestrate the base energy efficiency program in a
    manner such that the base adheres to federally mandated energy efficiency policy and USAF
    guidance and directives.
    6.3. The BEM will:
       6.3.1. Assist commanders, squadrons, associated units and any other sub-organizations
       on all matters concerning energy efficiency and awareness, fuels management and the use
       of alternative fuel sources.
       6.3.2. Be familiar with and advocate for the efficiency measures applicable to energy-
       using equipment, devices, buildings, or vehicles assigned to the installation.
       6.3.3. Evaluate energy efficiency requirements, summarize all energy-related statistical
       data for progress reporting and planning purposes and initiate energy-awareness
       programs.
       6.3.4. Educate all members of the installation on energy-related issues and initiate
       actions to conserve energy.
CANNONAFBI32-1001 9 FEBRUARY 2010                                                            7


      6.3.5. Develop energy-saving projects encompassing new construction and renovations
      to existing infrastructure.
      6.3.6. Use a project review system to ensure the optimal mixture of energy saving
      technologies is built into new and old facilities.
      6.3.7. Look for sources of energy partnering with the energy providers.
      6.3.8. Will facilitate data collection for metrics on recurring basis from the Facility
      Managers or other designated Unit representatives
   6.4. The BEM, in support of the energy savings program, will be responsible for executing
   the following four main categories of program management. Also included are some
   examples of the tasks normally executed in support of each management category.
      6.4.1. Planning and Organization: Prepare an installation Energy Plan, review and
      monitor energy-use trends and patterns, and track progress toward meeting DoD, USAF,
      AFSOC, and/or mandates issued regarding energy goals.
      6.4.2. Budgeting and Project Programming: Assist in preparing the installation energy
      budget, request funds for energy projects and calculate avoided energy costs.
      6.4.3. Program Management: Implement Energy Savings Performance Contracts
      (ESPC) and other energy saving construction projects, establish and promote an energy
      awareness program, and monitor preventive maintenance programs.
      6.4.4. Administrative: Prepare Defense Utility Energy Reporting System (DUERS)
      reports, participate in utilities contract negotiations, and review/evaluate energy
      suggestions.
7. Base Power Down Policy.
   7.1. Employees will power down all office equipment with the exception of computer central
   processing units every day at close of business and on weekends. Employees will plug these
   items into ―smart‖ power strips that power down when dormant and can be shut off. These
   ―smart‖ power strips are available for all base personnel through the BEM through self-help.
   7.2. While current policy is to leave computer central processing units (CPUs) on
   continuously for software downloads, energy savings can be obtained by shutting other office
   equipment off when not in use.
   7.3. When most equipment is shut off, it continues to consume electricity in the form of
   ―phantom loads‖. The following table shows these phantom loads drawn even after
   equipment is shut off:

Table 1.1. Phantom Loads Drawn.
Office Equipment      Wattage
Computer Monitor      1.4
Copier                10.2
Laser Printer         1 to 3
Desk Lamp             3.3
Microwave             2.7
8                                            CANNONAFBI32-1001 9 FEBRUARY 2010


    7.4. Users should report any computer-related anomalies to their Client Support
    Administrator (CSA).
8. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
    8.1. Prescribed Forms. No forms prescribed.
    8.2. Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                         STEPHEN A. CLARK, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander, 27th Special Operations Wing
CANNONAFBI32-1001 9 FEBRUARY 2010                                                        9


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Executive Order 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation
Management
AFPD 90-17, Energy Management, 16 July 2009
AFEPPM 04-1, Air Force Energy Program Procedural Memorandum
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AFB——Air Force Base
AFCESA—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFPD——Air Force Policy Directive
AFEPPM—Air Force Energy Program Policy Memorandum
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
BEM——Base Energy Management
BFM——Base Fuels Manager
BUM——Base Utilities Manager
CFT——Cross Functional Team
CPU——Central Processing Unit
CSA——Client Support Administrator
DECA——Defense Commissary Agency
DoD——Department of Defense
DUERS—Defense Utility Energy Reporting System
EESOHC—Energy, Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Council
EMS——Environmental Management System
EMSG——Energy Management Steering Group
EMWG—Energy Management Working Group
ESPC——Energy Savings Performance Contracts
FY——Fiscal Year
IAW——In Accordance With
10                                               CANNONAFBI32-1001 9 FEBRUARY 2010


RDS——Records Disposition Schedule
USAF——United States Air Force

Terms
Energy—Comprised of electrical power, oil, natural gas, and all variety of fuels
CANNONAFBI32-1001 9 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                          11


                                                     Attachment 2
                                    FACILITY MANAGER CHECKLIST

                               (IAW AFSOC Energy Policy, February 2009)


FACILITY MANAGER CHECKLIST
NAME/UNIT:
FACILITY NUMBER:
DATE:
                  MANDATES                                                                     Yes   No   N/A
L5. Personal Computers, Peripherals, Office Equipment and Shop Equipment
    - Are operating procedures instituted to minimize energy consumption when devices
    are not in use and disconnect electrical loads during non-duty hours to eliminate
    phantom loads?
     (Ref: AFNetOps/CC and SAF/XC memoranda on AF PC Energy Conservation)
    - Are monitors and peripherals turned off at end of duty day?
      (Configure PCs for lowest possible power setting when not in use.)
    - Has remote switching software such as wake-on-LAN, turn off computers at end of
    each duty day been implemented?
    - Are all printers, copiers, scanners, facsimile machines and other office equipment
    turned off at end of duty day (as warrantees allow), and are energy saving functions
    enabled when not in use during the duty day?
    - Are members using ―smart‖ power strips (UL listed) to group equipment for easy
    turn off (disconnection of electrical load) at end of each day?
L6. Lighting
    - Are all unnecessary interior and exterior lighting turned off?
    (Use occupancy/motion sensors or timer controls where appropriate.)
    - Is exterior lighting (not required for security or base operations) turned off between
    the hours of 2300 and 0500? (This includes facilities, equipment yards, parking lots,
    street lights, and sports fields (tennis courts, running tracks, golf driving range,
    softball/football fields, etc.). Lights remaining on should only be the minimum
    necessary to meet safety and security requirements.)
L7. Ramp Lighting
     - Do control aircraft parking ramp lighting to maintain a security lighting level of 3
     foot-candles (Fe) at I foot above grade in areas where no nighttime maintenance or
     launch/recovery operations are occurring ? (Ref: AFI 31-10 I)
     - Are light poles properly switched/configured to allow control of each light bank to
     reduce from maintenance to security lighting level? (Should establish standard
     operating procedures to assure the higher lighting level is used only when required.)
L8. Space Heaters
    - Are prohibited space heaters being used to supplement climate control?
    Ref: Engineering Technical Letter 98-4)
    (Facility managers will contact CE Customer Service to address unsatisfactory climate
    control issues.)
L9. Appliances
     - Have plans to upgrade all commercial appliances to ENERGY STAR® listed
    products by FY12 been develop and implemented?
    - Have unauthorized outdoor vending machines, ice machines and refrigerators been
    removed? (Variations must be approved in writing by HQ AFSOC/A7.)
    - Have prohibit refrigerators, coffee pots, microwave ovens and kitchen appliances in
    personal work spaces been removed? (Should only be placed in common areas.)
12                                                            CANNONAFBI32-1001 9 FEBRUARY 2010

S10. Lighting
    - Has a plan for maximum practical use of compact fluorescent or LED bulbs in
    billeting, dormitories and MFH been develop and implement?
    - Has a mandate for holiday light restrictions, including phase-in of LED technology,
    been publish/enforce accordingly.)
S13. Lighting Technology
     - Are all typical indoor incandescent lamps or fixtures been replaced with compact
     fluorescent lamps (CFL) or other ENERGY STAR® rated bulbs or fixtures?
     (Implement high efficiency lamp types into existing fixtures wherever compatible.)
S14. Domestic Hot Water Temperature
     - Are hot water temperature set and maintained in order to not exceed 120 degrees?
                                    MANDATES                                                  Meets   Does   N/A
                                                                                                      Not
                                                                                                      Meet
S15. Are the follow space temperature settings being maintained?*
Maintain facility temperatures (including reimbursable tenants) in accordance with table
below (variations must be approved in writing by AFSOC/A7):
    Heating Season - Administrative Spaces Occupied**: 69 degrees F (max. settings)
     Heating Season - Administrative Spaces Unoccupied***: 55 degrees F (max. settings)
     Heating Season - Shop Spaces Occupied**: 65 degrees F (max settings)
     Heating Season - Shop Spaces Unoccupied***: 55 degrees F (max. settings)
     Heating Season -Warehouse Spaces 60 degrees F (max settings)
     Cooling Season - Administrative Spaces Occupied**: 76 degrees F (min. settings)
     Cooling Season - Administrative Spaces Unoccupied***: 84 degrees F
     Cooling Season - Shop Spaces Occupied**: 76 degrees F
     Cooling Season - Shop Spaces Unoccupied***: 84 degrees F
     Cooling Season - Warehouse Spaces Unoccupied: Not cooled
S16. Programmable Thermostats
    - Are programmable thermostats with lockout capability provided in facilities/areas
    where EMCS is not available or applicable?
S17. Summer -Winter Changeover
Comply with the following changeover standards in all facilities that require a manual
seasonal changeover between the heating and cooling modes:
    - Heating Season Heating mode may not begin until outside air temperature drops to
    55 degrees F for 4 consecutive days
    - Cooling Season Cooling mode may not begin until outside air temperature reaches
    75 degrees F for 4 consecutive days
G4. Lighting
    - Are lights in offices, conference rooms, break rooms, bathrooms, etc turned off. when
    areas are unoccupied during the day, even for short periods of time; minimize general
    area lighting and incorporate task lighting as necessary; reevaluate lighting levels at
    change of facility use?
G5. Kitchen Appliances
    - Are reasonable common break areas provided to accommodate centralization of
    coffee pots, refrigerators and microwaves?
G6. Building Envelope
     - Are cracks caulked and sealed?
     - Are weather stripping around doors and windows in good repair?
     - Are broken glass replaced?
     - Are doors and windows operating properly?
     - Are automatic door closers adjusted?
CANNONAFBI32-1001 9 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                                      13

    - Are vertical shafts sealed?
G13. Seasonal Water Reset****
Adjust boiler and chiller water temperature for seasonal requirements
    - 45-47 degree F chilled water set point for summer
    - 50-52 degree F chilled water set point for spring and fall
* Although climate control systems for mission and communication equipment are exempt from the above settings, energy
efficiency should be key in the equipment operation; hospitals are covered by their own unique criteria.
** Work schedules should be established to minimize occupied hours while meeting mission requirements; in appropriate
administrative facilities, recommend occupied periods not exceed 10 hours per workday; weekend setback should be from COB
on Friday until start of business on Monday; implement temperature setback for federal holidays.
*** Unoccupied times apply to night and weekend periods when personnel are not required to be present.
**** Bases that have a low humidity environment have more flexibility to increase water temperatures.
