BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            CANNON AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
CANNON AIR FORCE BASE                                                                            32-201

                                                                                                               23 APRIL 2010
                                                                                               Certified Current 7 August 2012
                                                                                                             Civil Engineering

                                                                            FIRE PROTECTION OPERATIONS AND
                                                                                   FIRE PREVENTION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 27 SOCES/CEF                                                                                      Certified by: 27 SOCES/CC
Supersedes: AFI32-                                                                                               (Lt Col Coverston)
            2001_CANNONAFBSUP1,                                                                                           Pages: 19
            20 March 2003


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-20, Fire Emergency
Services, 17 November 2009. This instruction establishes policies and procedures and assigns
responsibilities and requirements to ensure a comprehensive Fire Prevention and Protection
Program on Cannon Air Force Base. It applies to all military personnel, family members,
civilian personnel, contractors, concessionaires, and tenants on Cannon AFB. Failure to comply
with this instruction is punishable as a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice.
Violations by civilians may result in appropriate disciplinary action to include administrative
action such as reprimand or criminal prosecution under applicable State and Federal statutes.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s through local publications/forms managers.


       1.      Objective. ...............................................................................................................   2
       2.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................      2
       3.      Fire and Emergency Reporting. .............................................................................                  5
       4.      Fire Lanes and Fire Hydrants. ................................................................................               6
 2                                                                               CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010


        5.       Fire Evacuation Drills. ...........................................................................................       6
        6.       Electrical Installations, Appliances, and Heating Equipment. ...............................                              6
        7.       Open Burning and Outdoor Cooking. ....................................................................                    8
        8.       Ammunition, Explosives and Hazardous Materials/Conditions. ...........................                                    8
        9.       Housekeeping. ........................................................................................................    9
        10.      Smoking and Disposal of Smoking Material. ........................................................                       10
        11.      Warehouse and Storage Facilities. .........................................................................              10
        12.      Dormitory and Military Family Housing (MFH). ..................................................                          10
        13.      Facility Decorations and Furnishings. ...................................................................                11
        14.      Self-Help Work Projects. .......................................................................................         12
        15.      Fire Suppression and Detection Systems. ..............................................................                   12
        16.      Aircraft Hangars. ...................................................................................................    12
        17.      Fire Prevention Visit and Inspection Program. ......................................................                     13
        17.9.    Prescribed and Adopted Forms. .............................................................................              14

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            15

Attachment 2—INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AF FORM 1487, FIRE PREVENTION
             VISIT REPORT                                              18


1. Objective. The objective of the installation Fire Prevention Program is to eliminate the
potential causes of fire and reduce the loss of life, property damage, and mission impact should
fire occur. Accomplishing these objectives is vital to the mission. To reach these objectives, it is
necessary to reduce unsafe practices and conditions. This is accomplished through the education
of all personnel, command support at all levels, and enforcement of safe practices. Fire
prevention and fire safety will not be compromised for reasons of expediency or economy.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Functional Managers: The functional manager is the commander or senior operating
     official at any level who exercises managerial control of an activity or operation (usually the
     squadron commander). Functional managers are responsible for administering the Fire
     Prevention program within their functional area and for initiating corrective action on fire
     hazards and fire deficiencies.
        2.1.1. Functional Managers will:
              2.1.1.1. Notify the Base Fire Prevention Office in writing of changes in facility
              managers and telephone numbers (notification and change to the Civil Engineer
              Facility Managers List will meet this requirement).
              2.1.1.2. Notify the Base Fire Prevention Office 14 days prior to any situation or event
              which will temporarily change or alter the use of a facility from its approved
CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010                                                                  3


         occupancy and designation, i.e., overnight lock-in in youth facilities; billeting of
         troops in other than dormitories; formations, gatherings, parties in hangars, etc.
         2.1.1.3. Notify the Base Fire Prevention Office, in writing, at least 48 hours prior, of
         the location and building number of any facility where there are sleeping personnel,
         other than those designated as sleeping facilities.
         2.1.1.4. Develop Operational Risk Management (ORM) Plans for Fire Safety
         Deficiencies that cannot be corrected immediately. The ORM Plan must ensure the
         safety of all occupants to the satisfaction of the Chief, FES and be approved by the
         installation commander. The Base Fire Prevention Office is available to provide
         technical assistance in plan development. Refer to AFI 32-2001 for MAJCOM ORM
         plan reporting and approvals for long term deviations. Approved copies of ORM
         Plans will be provided to the Base Fire Prevention Office. ORM Plan status will be
         provided to the Chief, FES semi-annually and/or as changes occur.
         2.1.1.5. Appoint an individual in the grade of Technical Sergeant (E-6) or higher, or
         civilian equivalent, to serve as the Unit Fire Safety Representative (UFSR). This
         individual serves as the focal point for fire safety education and fire prevention across
         the unit. Copies of UFSR appointment letters will be provided to the Base Fire
         Prevention Office within 15 days of appointment.
  2.2. Unit Commanders, Supervisors, UFSRs, and Facility Managers are responsible for
  ensuring sound fire prevention procedures are established and practiced in each activity or
  facility under their jurisdiction. They will enforce this instruction as it pertains to the
  buildings, areas, and property under their control.
     2.2.1. Unit Commanders will:
         2.2.1.1. Ensure all newly assigned personnel receive unit specific Fire Prevention,
         Fire Safety, and Fire Extinguisher training within 30 days of assignment. This
         training will be documented on the employee’s AF Form 55, Employee Safety and
         Health Record, or individual training record.
         2.2.1.2. Ensure facilities, rooms, or areas, which are under continuous lock and key
         are kept in a fire safe condition.
         2.2.1.3. Review for completeness, the corrective actions required and the corrective
         actions taken on AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report. The unit
         commander/functional manager must sign and date the reverse side of the form.
         2.2.1.4. Initiate work orders and/or projects to correct identified fire safety
         deficiencies/hazards and apply appropriate organizational emphasis and advocacy for
         work accomplishment.
         2.2.1.5. Initiate appropriate administrative or disciplinary action against personnel
         who willfully damage or tamper with fire protection systems and devices, initiate
         false reports (telephonic or electronic), or fail to comply with the fire prevention
         policies or practices through misconduct, disregard for fire directives, or negligence.
         2.2.1.6. Make all rooms and areas available for inspection during scheduled fire
         safety visits. Those areas in which classified or sensitive materials and equipment are
         stored or handled will be sanitized prior to the visit and made available for inspection.
4                                                        CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010


    2.3. Facility Managers: Each facility manager is responsible to the unit commander and
    UFSR for the fire-safe condition of all facilities under their jurisdiction. Facility managers
    will be in the grade of Staff Sergeant or higher, or civilian equivalent, and have the authority
    to affect required corrections to hazards and deficiencies.
       2.3.1. Facility Managers will:
           2.3.1.1. Accompany the fire prevention inspector during the fire prevention visit and
           take immediate corrective action on fire hazards or discrepancies found during the
           inspection.
           2.3.1.2. Accomplish those fire prevention duties outlined elsewhere in this
           instruction, Air Force and Cannon AFB directives, and as outlined in the Facility
           Managers Fire Prevention Checklist, available from the Base Fire Prevention Office.
           2.3.1.3. Check all fire extinguishers, standpipes, specialized fire suppression systems
           and initiating devices (if applicable), fire doors, exits, exit lights, and emergency
           lights on a monthly basis to ensure proper operating condition and document this
           inspection. Note: Force Protection measures do not take precedence over life safety
           requirements or FES access to the facility. Report all discrepancies on AF Form 332,
           Base Civil Engineer Work Request, or report directly to 27 SOCES/CEO Service Call
           (for emergency work) for corrective action.             Discrepancies involving fire
           extinguishers may be referred to the Fire Prevention Office for assistance.
           2.3.1.4. Ensure the Emergency 911 reporting number is affixed to every telephone.
           2.3.1.5. Ensure all personnel are knowledgeable of fire and emergency reporting,
           evacuation, and installed fire suppression and alarm systems activation procedures.
    2.4. Commander, 27th Special Operations Contracting Squadron will establish procedures to
    ensure the Fire Prevention Office is notified of all pre-construction, pre-performance
    conferences and pre-final construction inspections. A fire protection representative will
    attend these conferences and inspections to coordinate fire prevention requirements with
    contractors.
       2.4.1. All equipment purchases or contracts which may have impact on fire safety, fire
       protection/suppression equipment/services, or involve the procurement of fire
       protection/suppression equipment will be reviewed for need and/or fire code
       requirements by Fire Prevention Office prior to contract award.
       2.4.2. Contracts will contain a fire prevention clause requiring contractors to adhere to
       applicable Base, Air Force and National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) criteria.
    2.5. United States Army Corps of Engineers: The senior official of the Corps of Engineers
    office will establish a procedure to ensure the Fire Prevention Office is notified of all pre-
    design, pre-construction, pre-performance conferences and pre-final construction inspections.
    A fire protection representative must attend these conferences and inspections to coordinate
    fire prevention requirements with contractors.
       2.5.1. All construction designs, at each design phase, regardless of funding source,
       method of accomplishment, or programming type will be provided to the Base Fire
       Prevention Office for review to ensure fire protection operational requirements are met.
CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010                                                                 5


      2.5.2. Contracts will contain a fire prevention clause requiring contractors to adhere to
      applicable Base, Air Force and NFPA criteria.
   2.6. Commander, 27th Special Operations Civil Engineer Squadron will establish procedures
   to ensure the Base Fire Prevention Office is notified of all pre-design, pre-construction, and
   pre-performance conferences and pre-final construction inspections. A fire protection
   representative must attend these conferences and inspections to coordinate fire prevention
   requirements with contractors.
      2.6.1. All DD Form 1391s, Military Construction Project Data, will be submitted to the
      Fire Prevention Office for review prior to submission to MAJCOM.
      2.6.2. All construction designs, at each design phase, regardless of funding source,
      method of accomplishment, or programming type will be provided to the Base Fire
      Prevention Office for review to ensure fire protection operational requirements are met.
      2.6.3. Contracts will contain a fire prevention clause requiring contractors to adhere to
      applicable Base, Air Force and NFPA criteria.
   2.7. Concessionaires and Contractors are responsible for fire prevention in their work areas
   and will comply with Air Force directives, local supplements, and NFPA standards as they
   pertain to them.
   2.8. Contractor Operations: Employees of private contractors performing work under
   government contracts are required to comply with this Instruction, Air Force directives, and
   NFPA Standards as applicable to the work being performed. Prime contractors will be
   provided with a copy of the Contractors Fire Prevention Guide by FES during pre-
   performance conferences to be used as a reference for fire safety during construction
   operations. Additional copies will be made available for sub-contractors upon request.
3. Fire and Emergency Reporting.
   3.1. Immediate and accurate reporting of a fire or emergency is essential to minimize life
   and property loss. Any person discovering a fire, potential fire, or emergency situation must
   report it immediately to FES. This includes any fire, even when it has burned itself out or
   has been extinguished without the aid of FES.
   3.2. Fire and Emergency Reporting Telephone Numbers: Report all fires or emergencies to
   FES by dialing 911 from all phones on base and from on-base military family housing. DO
   NOT HANG UP until released by the 911 Operator. The sequence of procedures should be:
      3.2.1. Sound the alarm, both mechanically and verbally. In buildings equipped with fire
      alarm systems, activate the nearest fire alarm pull station. In buildings not equipped with
      fire alarm systems, sound the alarm verbally.
      3.2.2. Call the Fire Department by dialing 911. When reporting a fire or emergency,
      give your name and telephone number, your location and address, and the location and
      nature of the emergency. Remain on the telephone until told to hang up by the 911
      Operator.
      3.2.3. Ensure all personnel are evacuated from the facility and assemble at a designated
      area at least 75 feet from the facility. Supervisors must account for all personnel; report
      missing persons immediately to first arriving FES units.
 6                                                         CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010


        3.2.4. Attempt to extinguish the fire, if possible, using available portable fire
        extinguishers. Do not place yourself in unnecessary danger or risk.
        3.2.5. Designate one individual outside the building to direct the arriving emergency
        vehicles to the location of the emergency.
     3.3. False Fire Reporting: Any person involved in malicious or deliberate transmission of
     false information pertaining to a fire or emergency, including falsely initiating a FES
     response, will be subject to disciplinary action.
     3.4. Tampering, or Disabling of Fire Detection and Suppression Systems: Any person
     involved in the malicious or deliberate disabling, tampering, or making of any fire detection
     or suppression system inoperative or unresponsive will be subject to disciplinary action.
4. Fire Lanes and Fire Hydrants.
     4.1. All planned road closures and road blocking must be coordinated with and approved by
     the Base Fire Prevention Office at least 24 hours prior to the blocking action. Unplanned and
     emergency road closures must be reported to the Base Fire Prevention Office upon taking the
     blocking action.
     4.2. Fire Lanes and Restricted Parking: Vehicle parking is prohibited in fire lanes. They
     must remain unobstructed at all times. Other restricted parking areas may also be marked.
     Vehicles will remain at least 15 feet away from buildings and building exits.
     4.3. Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants will not be used by any person other than FES, except
     when permission is granted by the Chief, FES or a designated representative.
        4.3.1. Vehicle parking, material storage, and ornamental vegetation is not permitted
        within 15-feet of fire hydrants, post indicator valves, stand pipes, and fire suppression
        sprinkler system connections.
        4.3.2. Out-of-Service fire hydrants will be affixed with a red, metal ring to the 4 ½”
        discharge with the words “OUT-OF-SERVICE” in 2” white lettering. 27 SOCES/CEO is
        responsible for notifying the Fire Alarm Communications Center of out-of-service
        hydrants, placement of the ring, ring removal when returned to service, and notification
        to the Fire Alarm Communications Center of the hydrant’s return to service.
5. Fire Evacuation Drills.
     5.1. Unit commanders may conduct fire evacuation drills at their discretion. Fire evacuation
     drills are the responsibility of the UFSR and facility manager to ensure the safe evacuation of
     personnel in case of fire. The intent of the fire drill is to expose occupants to the sound of the
     fire alarm system, test capacity of the fire exits, and to practice organizational fire reaction
     plans. Fire drills will not be used as a pretext for wellness inspections, contraband raids, bed
     checks or other non-fire reaction type activities.
     5.2. Fire alarm systems will not be used to conduct fire evacuation drills without prior
     coordination with FES. FES will be on site prior to the evacuation drill to reset the system.
     5.3. The Chief, FES may direct fire drills in any facility as necessary.
6. Electrical Installations, Appliances, and Heating Equipment.
CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010                                                                7


  6.1. All electrical services and installations will conform to NFPA Standard 70, National
  Electrical Code. Unauthorized and improper wiring will be removed at the performing
  organization’s expense, as determined by the Base Fire Marshal. The following clarifies
  common sections of NFPA 70:
     6.1.1. All switches, outlets, receptacles, fuse boxes, circuit breaker panels, and junction
     boxes must have suitable cover plates.
     6.1.2. Electric switches and circuit breakers will not be taped or altered as to prevent or
     restrict their operation or tripping.
     6.1.3. Extension cords will not be used in lieu of permanent electrical wiring.
     6.1.4. Extension cords and non-permanent electrical wiring will not be spliced or taped
     nor draped over nails or metal objects, run through windows or doors, run under rugs, or
     in any way be placed or fixed in a way that may subject the wiring to physical damage.
     6.1.5. Extension cords will be of single, continuous length and not interconnected with
     other extension cords. Note: While surge protectors provide additional circuit
     protection, they are considered extension cords.
  6.2. In addition to the requirements of NFPA 70, the following electrical concerns apply to
  CAFB facilities and operations:
     6.2.1. The use of excessive extension cords by means of multiple outlet plugs from a
     single outlet is prohibited, unless the multiple outlet is fused at 15 or more amperes.
     Surge protectors meet this requirement.
     6.2.2. Worn or deteriorated electrical cords will be removed from service and replaced
     immediately.
     6.2.3. All extension cords must be of sufficient gauge to carry the ampere load of the
     attached equipment, without heating the extension cord, plugs, or other components.
     6.2.4. Extension cords will not operate high amperage and heating appliances, such as
     portable space heaters, coffeepots, refrigerators, microwaves, frying pans, broilers, and
     other similar appliances. These appliances will be plugged directly into wall outlets.
     6.2.5. Explosion proof electrical equipment will be used in hazardous locations where
     flammable gases or vapors are present and as required by the National Electric Code.
     6.2.6. Cooking with conventional high heat producing appliances, such as ovens or
     stoves, is prohibited in all buildings except those having specific areas designated as
     kitchen facilities. These areas must be designated in writing by the unit commander,
     approved by the Chief, FES and Public Health, and comply with the requirements of
     AFOSH 91-501, and UFC 3-600-01. Microwave ovens are permitted in all facilities
     when approved by the organizational commander.
     6.2.7. The use of portable space heaters is permitted, providing the heater is UL or FM
     Listed, equipped with an operable safety shut-off (tip-over) switch, and is plugged
     directly into a wall outlet, without the use of extension cords. Open element electrical
     and fuel-fired heaters are prohibited.
 8                                                        CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010


        6.2.8. A minimum vertical clearance of 18 inches will be maintained between room
        contents and electrical light fixtures, ceiling surfaces, and fire detection/suppression
        devices.
        6.2.9. All commercially procured lighting and electrical appliances will be Underwriters
        Laboratory (UL) or Factory Mutual (FM) listed for the use intended.
        6.2.10. Heating appliances will be operated on a non-combustible surface. Formica, or
        other similar surface, will be considered non-combustible for this situation.
        6.2.11. All electrical equipment and appliances will be turned off at the end of the day.
        Exception: Mission essential/critical equipment.
7. Open Burning and Outdoor Cooking.
     7.1. Open burning (camp fires, trash or waste burning, grass, bonfires, etc.) is prohibited
     unless approved by the Chief, FES and SOCES Asset Management Fight - Natural Resource
     Element, (27 SOCES/CEAN) in writing. Commercially procured Chimeneas and fire pits are
     permitted for use in MFH, subject to state and Curry County fire restrictions.
     7.2. BBQs, charcoal and gas type-grills, smokers, Chimeneas, fire pits, and turkey fryers will
     be kept 10 feet from any structure or overhang when operating. Chimeneas and fire pits will
     not be permitted for use when state, county, or CAFB fire restrictions are declared, or when
     winds exceed 20 mph.
     7.3. The burning of candles is prohibited in all base facilities. Exception: MFH, Chapel as
     part of organized religious services, and Club. Note: Listed glass jar candle style candle
     warmers may be utilized but must be unplugged when unattended.
8. Ammunition, Explosives and Hazardous Materials/Conditions.
     8.1. The storage, handling, maintenance, and posting of explosive materials will be in strict
     compliance with AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards.
        8.1.1. The using organization, responsible for munitions, will advise the Fire Alarm
        Communications Center (FACC) of munitions status. Organizations shall report all
        movements of munitions, load status and fire symbol of affected munitions. Munitions
        control will notify the Fire Department of any hazard class division 1.1 explosives
        movements outside the MSA or of changes of contents in munitions storage and
        maintenance facilities affecting fire symbols or hazard symbols and document
        notification. All other organizations shall report all movements of munitions, load status
        and fire symbol of affected munitions. A complete listing of storage status will be
        provided to the FACC by close of business Friday each week.
     8.2. Vehicles and equipment with internal combustion engines will not be parked or stored
     inside buildings, except those facilities designated and designed for motor vehicle storage
     and repair.
     8.3. Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders used for barbecues, torches, etc. should be
     stored out-of-doors, however; when a valid theft or security concern exists, they may be
     stored inside a facility if the cylinder is stored in a locked metal locker to prevent tampering
     with the cylinder valve. The locker will be labeled “FLAMMABLE” and identify its
     contents. Cylinders/lockers will not be located near exits, stairways, or in areas normally
CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010                                                                 9


   used, or intended to be used, for the safe egress of occupants. Quantities of LPG stored
   inside a facility will not exceed one storage cylinder up to 20-gallons.
   8.4. The individual use of fireworks on Cannon AFB, including Military Family Housing, is
   prohibited. The installation commander, on a case-by-case basis may authorize fireworks for
   special functions and situations. Fireworks, of any type, will not be permitted for use when
   state, county, or city fire restrictions are declared. Base sponsored fireworks demonstrations
   will be conducted by persons licensed in the State of New Mexico to conduct public
   fireworks demonstrations and coordinated through the FES Fire Prevention Office.
   8.5. The NFPA 704 Hazard Identification System is optional for use on Cannon AFB
   however; if the NFPA 704 symbol is displayed it must be maintained and current.
9. Housekeeping.
   9.1. In general terms, any condition relative to the cleanliness or arrangement of a building
   that could compromise fire safety constitutes poor housekeeping and may be identified as a
   hazard. Commanders, facility managers, and supervisors are responsible for maintaining a
   high state of cleanliness and orderliness throughout their buildings. The use and availability
   of custodial services does not defer unit responsibility for housekeeping actions.
      9.1.1. Trash and rubbish containers used in all areas must have lids. Small 5-gallon type
      office trash receptacles are exempt from this requirement.
      9.1.2. Trash cans will be emptied as needed to prevent accumulation.
      9.1.3. Outside trash and rubbish collection containers must be kept closed and will be
      located not less than 15 feet from any portion of a building or be separated from adjacent
      structures by a noncombustible enclosure or wall of sufficient height to limit fire spread.
   9.2. Clean rags, dirty rags, clean “speedy dry”, and dirty “speedy dry” will be stored in
   separate metal containers with suitable lids and labeled with 1-inch lettering as to its
   contents.
   9.3. Store steel wool in metal containers with metal, self-closing lids. Containers will be
   labeled with 1-inch lettering as to its contents.
   9.4. Storage of any kind in utility rooms, air conditioning compressor or air handling rooms,
   generator rooms, telephone communications rooms, boiler rooms, service rooms, and under
   stairwells is prohibited.
   9.5. Mops, boxes, paper, and other combustibles must be stored at least three feet from hot
   water heaters and other heat producing equipment.
   9.6. Combustibles stored for recycling should be stored outside and away from exits and
   windows. If recyclables must be stored inside, they will not be permitted to accumulate in
   excessive quantities. Stairwells and other areas of egress will not be used for storage or
   holding of recycle materials.
   9.7. Care will be exercised when storing materials to insure that clear aisles are maintained
   throughout storage areas. Sprinkler risers, alarm boxes, fire department connections,
   standpipe hose stations, fire extinguishers, electric panels, and power switches will not be
   obstructed in any manner nor have any articles attached to them.
 10                                                    CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010


   9.8. Charcoal will be stored in closed, labeled, metal containers. At no time will charcoal be
   stored directly against concrete surfaces.
   9.9. Suspended ceilings will have all tiles in place. Areas having cable and utility access
   requirements will have tiles cut or modified to limit open space around the accesses.
10. Smoking and Disposal of Smoking Material.
   10.1. Smoking is only permitted in areas that are designated as smoking areas listed in AFI
   40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, or as approved by the installation commander.
   10.2. Smoking material receptacles will be emptied daily or more often as needed by using
   water to thoroughly wet down the contents to ensure they are extinguished before combining
   them with other wastes in dumpsters, trash collection barrels, etc.
   10.3. Smoking materials will not be thrown in trash receptacles, on the floor, or from
   vehicles. Do not use smoking material receptacles for trash.
   10.4. Ashtrays will be kept on non-combustible surfaces and away from combustible
   materials.
   10.5. Ashtrays will be constructed of non-combustible materials, be of stable construction
   (not prone to tipping) and be of a common form and design generally accepted as an ashtray.
   Soda cans, drinking glasses, beverage bottles, etc., are not considered appropriate containers
   for smoking material disposal.
11. Warehouse and Storage Facilities.
   11.1. These facilities will meet the requirements set forth in DoD Regulation 4145.19-R-1,
   Storage and Materials Handling and the National Fire Code. Buildings used for storage and
   warehouses will have aisles between stacks, racks, and stored materials. Stacks will be
   properly maintained to inhibit the spread of fire. The appropriate directives and/or fire
   prevention personnel will determine aisle width.
12. Dormitory and Military Family Housing (MFH).
   12.1. Personnel residing in government quarters will attend a fire safety briefing/lecture
   within 30 days of occupancy. Dormitory residents will be scheduled for this briefing through
   the Dormitory Management Office; MFH residents will be scheduled through the MFH
   Office.
   12.2. Dormitories, Visiting Officer’s and Airman's Quarters, and Temporary Lodging
   Quarters present high life loss potential and require precautions.
      12.2.1. Prohibited items are:
          12.2.1.1. Candles, incense or any open flame devices that produce a constant flame.
          Note: Listed glass jar candle style candle warmers may be utilized but must be
          unplugged when unattended.
          12.2.1.2. Firearms and ammunition.
          12.2.1.3. Explosives or pyrotechnics - including fireworks.
CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010                                                                  11


          12.2.1.4. Flammable and combustible liquids. This does not apply to small amounts
          of lighter fluid or butane for refilling cigarette lighters, or small quantities of model
          glue and paints.
          12.2.1.5. Cooking appliances, other than those permanently installed in recognized
          and approved kitchen areas. Exception: coffee pots and microwaves.
          12.2.1.6. Heat-producing appliances, including electric potpourri pots and similar
          appliances. Hair dryers, curling irons, and clothes irons are not included in this
          restriction.
      12.2.2. Cooking activities will be restricted to those areas equipped with established
      kitchen facilities. While in use, cooking appliances will be monitored by the user.
      12.2.3. Appliances such as hair dryers, curling irons, clothes irons, and electric blankets
      shall be unplugged from the wall receptacle when not in use.
      12.2.4. Nothing will hang from ceilings or be draped (suspended) over beds.
      12.2.5. Excessive hanging of pictures and posters on walls is prohibited.
13. Facility Decorations and Furnishings.
   13.1. FES must approve any major decoration projects to ensure compliance before
   installation. Contact the Fire Prevention Office to arrange for an inspection. Decorations not
   meeting NFPA code requirements and Air Force directives cannot be used. Some general
   guidelines are:
      13.1.1. Use only UL or FM listed flame retardant or resistant decorations.
      13.1.2. Ornamental and holiday lighting and wiring must be in good physical condition
      with no splices or short-circuiting in the wire. Indoor lighting will not be used for
      outdoor applications and outdoor-only lighting will not be used indoors. This lighting
      must be unplugged when the rooms are unoccupied.
      13.1.3. Outdoor lights and wiring will be in good physical condition and must be
      approved for outdoor use by the manufacturer and be weatherproof.
   13.2. Natural (live) Christmas trees are prohibited from use in all base facilities; exception:
   Military Family Housing.
      13.2.1. In those facilities where natural trees are permitted and used, they will be fresh
      cut with the butt ends cut diagonally or wedge shaped and placed in a bucket of fresh
      water. They will be kept out-of-doors until the tree is ready for trimming. The butt of the
      trimmed tree will be kept in water or moist sand. Attempting to fireproof natural green
      trees is not permitted.
      13.2.2. Christmas tree lights will be unplugged when the area or facility is unoccupied.
      Christmas tree lights will not be used on metal Christmas trees due to the possible hazard
      of shock or electrocution.
   13.3. Decorations will not be placed where they would restrict or impede fire evacuation
   routes, block access to exits for personnel exiting the facility, or confuse identification of
   emergency exits.
 12                                                    CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010


14. Self-Help Work Projects.
   14.1. All self-help work must be approved in advance on an AF Form 332, Civil Engineer
   Work Request. All AF Form 332s must be coordinated with the Base Fire Prevention Office.
   The purpose of this coordination is to ensure that the construction, renovation, and structural
   alterations do not compromise fire protection and safety, and materials used in the project
   comply with Air Force and NFPA Requirements. The Fire Prevention Office will review
   each AF Form 332 and make appropriate comments and recommendations. Non-approved
   self-help work which creates a fire hazard or fire safety deficiency will be identified on an
   AF Form 1487 and will require the removal of the self-help work and restoration of the work
   area by the organization that did the work.
   14.2. Personnel accomplishing self-help work will not shut down, disconnect, alter, modify,
   or in any way impede the operation of a fire suppression or fire detection system without
   approval of FES and Special Operations Civil Engineering Operations Flight (CEO).
   Requests for fire detection/suppression work will be submitted on AF Form 332.
   14.3. The facility manager will notify the Fire Prevention Office when approved self-help
   work that structurally alters a facility begins, so the work may be checked for life safety
   requirements by FES during construction and after completion.
15. Fire Suppression and Detection Systems.
   15.1. These systems are designed and installed to provide protection for specific
   occupancies. The systems must remain operational for protection of facility contents and
   occupants. Generally, these systems will not be made inoperative to accommodate special
   events in facilities or construction work. If an organization can show a specific need for
   inactivation or degradation of the system, the Chief, FES will be the approving authority for
   this action. Requests for approval must be submitted on an AF Form 332 by the functional
   manager or project manager and coordinated and approved by Civil Engineering, Safety, and
   FES at least seven duty days prior to the requirement.
16. Aircraft Hangars.
   16.1. With the exception of Hangar 199, Bay 3, not more than 50 square feet of aircraft
   surface may be painted within a hangar.
   16.2. At no time will internal combustion powered equipment be started or operated within a
   hangar unless approved for operation in hazardous locations. Vehicles of any type will not be
   parked in hangars. All powered, operating AGE equipment will be positioned at least 10’
   from any facility component (i.e. roof, doors, etc). Should mission requirements cause the
   need for vehicle parking within a hangar, the organizational commander responsible for the
   hangar will submit a request, through 27 SOW/SE, to the Chief, Fire Emergency Services for
   approval/disapproval.
   16.3. Fire lanes in hangar and shop areas will be designated by means of a 3-4 inch red line
   painted on the floor, with the words “FIRE LANE” in white paint, spaced at 10’ intervals.
   This lane will be kept clear at all times. The fire lane will extend a minimum of three feet
   from the wall, wall-mounted equipment, and storage lockers.
   16.4. The positioning or parking of any type of equipment or repair parts, which could
   obstruct the operation of the hangar doors or hinder the removal of aircraft, is prohibited.
CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010                                                                   13


   16.5. Each aircraft hangar will have an emergency aircraft removal and evacuation plan
   developed and posted in each hangar bay. This plan will be exercised yearly and requires
   physical evacuation of aircraft and personnel. A record of the removal/evacuation exercise
   will be maintained by the facility manager.
   16.6. Each hangar utilized for the parking/storing of multiple aircraft will have an aircraft
   parking plan developed and posted in each hangar bay. This plan will be coordinated
   through Wing Safety (27 SOW/SEF and SEG) and approved by FES. The plan must consider
   appropriate spacing, emergency evacuation requirements, fire suppression coverage, and
   personnel access requirements.
   16.7. When mission or weather conditions require the sheltering of mission essential, one-of-
   a-kind, vehicles in the same facilities with aircraft, a sheltering plan will be developed by the
   27 SOMXG/CC meeting the requirements and coordination specified in AFSOSH Std 91-
   100, Aircraft Flight Line-Ground Operations and Activities. Freezing weather, snow, and
   rain conditions are normally not grounds for joint sheltering. Maintenance will not be
   performed on aircraft and vehicles sheltered under this paragraph.
   16.8. Parking of aircraft in hangars without installed or inoperative fire suppression and
   detection systems will be avoided and conducted only when no other option or work-around
   is available. In those situations where mission or severe weather conditions require non-
   protected hangar use, maintenance will not be performed on those aircraft sheltered in these
   facilities. Should mission requirements cause the need for aircraft maintenance within an
   unprotected hangar, the organizational commander responsible for the hangar will submit a
   request, through 27 SOW/SE, to the Chief, Fire Emergency Services for
   approval/disapproval. An ORM Plan must accompany the request.
   16.9. Hangar maintenance floor areas will not be used for storage when aircraft are present.
17. Fire Prevention Visit and Inspection Program.
   17.1. Facility and area fire prevention visits will be conducted on a quarterly, semiannual,
   annual, or on a walk-through basis as determined by the Chief, FES.
   17.2. Walk-through visits will be conducted on a no-notice basis when dictated by increased
   activity or the nature of special work or functions. These visits will include periods of
   evening operations. Follow-up inspections on previously identified fire hazards and
   deficiencies and quality control inspections may be carried out in this manner.
   17.3. The UFSR and facility manager, or designated alternate, will accompany the fire
   prevention inspector on all scheduled visits. A responsible individual, such as a night
   manager, shift supervisor, etc., may accompany inspectors during no-notice walk-through
   visits. Employee labor representatives may also participate in fire prevention visits at their
   discretion.
   17.4. Fire hazards and deficiencies noted during the inspection will be corrected on the spot
   if at all possible. If the fire hazard or condition poses an imminent danger, prompt action
   will be taken to eliminate or reduce the danger. When the hazard involves an operation or
   process that must be stopped and action is not taken to do so, the Chief, FES, Base Fire
   Marshal, 27th Special Operations Wing Safety Officer, and the functional manager
   concerned will be notified to observe and resolve the hazardous condition. If the problem
 14                                                    CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010


   cannot be resolved, the Fire Marshal, the 27 SOMSG/CC, and/or the 27 SOW/CC will be
   notified and resolution will be made at that level.
   17.5. Risk Assessment Codes (RAC) and Fire Safety Deficiencies (FSD) will be assigned to
   fire hazards and fire deficiencies in accordance with AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational
   and Environmental Safety, Fire Prevention and Health (AFOSH) Program and current
   AFCESA Guidance. Appropriate ORM Plans will be developed for all RAC and FSDs
   which are not corrected on the spot.
   17.6. The AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report, is annotated to show fire hazards or
   deficiencies found. The fire inspector will provide the facility manager the original copy of
   the AF Form 1487, brief them on the hazards noted, and provide recommendations for
   corrective actions. The facility manager must indicate the actions taken on the reverse side
   of the form, have the functional manager sign and date, and return the form to the Fire
   Prevention Office within the specified time. Details on form completion and routing can be
   found in
   17.7. The facility and functional manager will start immediate correction of the fire hazard
   or fire deficiency identified during the fire prevention visit. The facility manager should not
   wait for the official report to begin corrective actions. Any hazard or deficiency, assigned a
   RAC 1, 2, or 3, not corrected within 30 days will be documented on an AF Form 3, Hazard
   Abatement Plan, IAW AFI 91-301.
   17.8. Open Fire Protection Related FSDs and RACs will be reported annually to each
   respective unit and group commander for priority action and funding and briefed during the
   Combined Safety Council.

17.9. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

17.9.1. Prescribed Forms.

17.9.2. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 3, Hazard Abatement Plan
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report
DD Form 1391, Military Construction Project Data




                                             STEPHEN A. CLARK, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 27th Special Operations Wing
CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010                                                               15


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice, 2008
DoDR 4145.19-R-1, Storage and Materials Handling, 19 September 1979
UFC 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities, 26 September 2006
AFPD 32-20, Fire Emergency Services, 5 August 2003
AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 September 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,1 March 2008
AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use In the Air Force, 3 June 2002
AFOSHSTD 91-100, Aircraft Flight Line – Ground Operations and Activities, 1 May 1998
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, 17 November 2008
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
(AFOSH) Program, 1 June 1996
AFOSHSTD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, 7 July 2004
NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, 2008
NFPA 704, Standard System for the Identification of the Hazards of Materials for Emergency
Response, 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFCESA—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CAFB—Cannon Air Force Base
CC—Commander
CEAN—Civil Engineer Asset Management Flight, Natural Resources Element
CEO—Civil Engineer Operations Flight
DoDR—Department of Defense Regulation
 16                                                   CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010


FACC—Fire Alarm Communications Center
FES—Fire Emergency Services
FM—Factory Mutual
FSD—Fire Safety Deficiency
IAW—In Accordance With
LPG—Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MAJCOM—Major Command
MFH—Military Family Housing
MOCC—Maintenance Operations Control Center
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
RAC—Risk Assessment Code
SEF—Flight Safety
SEG—Ground Safety
SOCES—Special Operations Civil Engineer Squadron
SOMSG—Special Operation Mission Support Group
SOMXG—Special Operations Maintenance Group
SOW—Special Operations Wing
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
UFSR—Unit Fire Safety Representative
UL—Underwriters’ Laboratory

Terms
Chimenea—A freestanding front-loading fireplace or oven with a bulbous body and usually a
vertical smoke vent or chimney.
Fire Pit—A manufactured appliance or in-ground constructed system intended to heat specific
areas and used for property/event enhancement. The appliances are usually constructed of metal
and both configurations burn wood, charcoal, or propane.
Functional Area—Normally a squadron or major section within a squadron
Imminent Danger—Conditions or practices which could be expected to cause a fire, death, or
severe physical harm.
Operational Risk Management Plan—A written plan designed to address risks and hazards
associated with a process, fire safety deficiency, or fire hazard. The plan must be a systematic
process of identifying hazards, assessing risk, analyzing risk control options and measures,
CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010                                                      17


making control decisions, implementing control decisions, accepting residual risks, and
supervising/reviewing the activity for effectiveness.
 18                                                    CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010


                                         Attachment 2
  INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AF FORM 1487, FIRE PREVENTION VISIT
                            REPORT

A2.1. The AF Form 1487 is the instrument, by which fire hazards and deficiencies are identified
to facility and functional managers. With the deficiencies identified, the appropriate corrective
actions and regulatory references are provided. This attachment is intended to provide instruction
on completion of the form IAW local policy.
A2.2. Top of Form, Heading Blocks:
   A2.2.1. Blocks 1 through 3 - self-explanatory.
   A2.2.2. Block 4 - The date in which corrective actions are required to be accomplished.
   When Civil Engineering Work Orders are required to initiate corrective action, this is the
   date in which the work order must be called in to Service Call or AF Form 332 submitted.
   A2.2.3. Block 5 - The date in which the AF Form 1487 must be returned to the Fire
   Department with corrective actions taken and signed by the functional manager.
   A2.2.4. Blocks 6 through 8 - self-explanatory.
A2.3. Center of Form, Hazard/Discrepancy Blocks:
   A2.3.1. Block 9 - This block lists problems or discrepancies noted during the visit. The items
   identified may be specific to exact hazards or may be of a general nature for problems
   identified in several locations or trends.
   A2.3.2. Block 10 - A Fire Safety Deficiency (FSD) may be assigned to the deficiency. If
   assigned, the FSD identifies the severity of the deficiency and can be used to establish a
   priority for corrective action. Additional information on FSDs may be obtained in AFI 91-
   301.
   A2.3.3. Block 11 - A Risk Assessment Code (RAC) may be assigned to the deficiency. If
   assigned, the RAC identifies the severity of the hazard and is used to establish a priority for
   corrective action. Additional information on RACs may be obtained in AFI 91-301.
   A2.3.4. Block 12 - An explanation of why a discrepancy needs to be corrected and what is
   required to correct it is provided in this block. Along with this explanation a regulatory
   reference is provided.
   A2.3.5. Blocks 13 through 18 - self-explanatory.
A2.4. Reverse of Form, Corrective action and functional manager areas.
   A2.4.1. Block 19A - Identify the discrepancy by number or word description as listed in
   Block 9.
   A2.4.2. Block 19B - Provide the date of discrepancy correction. If a work order was
   submitted, provide the date of submission.
   A2.4.3. Block 19C - If a RAC 1, 2, or 3 was assigned to the discrepancy and the discrepancy
   cannot be corrected within 30 days of the report, the RAC must be entered into the unit and
CANNONAFBI32-201 23 APRIL 2010                                                               19


   base Hazard Abatement Plan. Enter the date this action was taken. See AFI 91-301 for
   additional information.
   A2.4.4. Block 19D - Describe the actions taken to correct the discrepancy. If a work order
   was required, provide the work order number with the actions.
   A2.4.5. Blocks 20 through 22 - The form must be signed by the unit’s functional manager.
   Normally this individual is the unit commander or deputy.
A2.5. Other instructions: Once all actions have been completed, keep one copy for the unit’s
fire prevention folder/file and send the original back to the Fire Department.
A2.6. Contact the Fire Prevention Section for a new suspense if the original cannot be met. Keep
the Base Fire Prevention Office updated on any open discrepancies as to status and when they
are closed out. A telephone call or e-mail memo to the inspector will be adequate for status
update.
