DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                       CFETP 3M0X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                           Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1000                                           21 Jun 2012



                                  AFSC 3M0X1

                                    SERVICES




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no release-ability restrictions on this publication.


                                         i
                CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

                               SERVICES SPECIALTY

                                    AFSC 3M0X1

                               TABLE OF CONTENTS


Part I

Preface………………………………………………………….………………..………………1

Abbreviations and Terms Explained………………………………….………….…………...3

Section A -- General Information…………….………….………………...…....……………..8
      Purpose of the CFETP
      Use of the CFETP
      Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B -- AFS Progression and Information……….….…………………….….…….…..9
      Specialty Descriptions
      Skill and Career Progression
              Helper Level (1)
              Apprentice Level (3)
              Journeyman Level (5)
              Craftsman Level (7)
              Superintendent Level (9)
              Training Decisions
              Community College of the Air Force
      Career Field Path

Section C -- Skill Level Training Requirements…………….………...….…………………16
      Purpose
      Specialty Qualification Training Requirements Training Requirements
              Helper Level (1)
              Apprentice Level (3)
              Journeyman Level (5)
              Craftsman Level (7)
              Superintendent Level (9)

Section D -- Resource Constraints……………………….……………..……………...……26

Section E -- Transition Training Guide ………………………………………………….…..26
      “There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.”

                                          ii
Part II

Section A -- Specialty Training Standard…………………...……………………………....27
      Implementation
      Purpose

Section B -- Course Objective List…………..…….………………...……………………....43

Section C -- Support Materials………………………………………..……………………...43
      Purpose
      Services Training Aids

Section D -- Training Course Index……………………………………………...…………..43
      Purpose
      Air Force In-Residence Courses
      Air University (CDC) Courses
      Exportable Courses
      Mobile Training Teams
      Air University Resident Courses

Section E -- MAJCOM Unique Requirements………………………………….…………..45
      AFSPC/AFGSC Missile Chefs




OPR: HQ USAF/A1S
Approved By: HQ USAF/A1
Supersedes: CFETP 3M0X1, 1 September 2010


                                    iii
This page is blank




        iv
                         SERVICES SPECIALTY
                             AFSC 3M0X1
              CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

PART I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive
document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training
support resources, and minimum wartime task requirements for the 3M0X1
career field. The CFETP provides a clear career path to success and provides
guidance in all aspects of career field training.

NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions may use Part II to support duty
position qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors plan, manage, and control
training within the Services specialty using both parts of the plan. A breakdown
of Part I and Part II are outlined below.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the 3M0X1
career field.

2.1.1. Section A, General Information: This section states the purpose of the
CFETP, its use, and describes the procedures for coordinating and obtaining
approval for update and publication.

2.1.2. Section B, AFS Progression and Information: This section provides AFS
duties and job progression information.

2.1.3. Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements: This section lists all
mandatory training requirements for each skill level.

2.1.4. Section D, Resource Constraints: This section identifies all resource
constraints that will impact the execution of education and training such as funds,
equipment, and manpower.

2.1.5. Section E, Transition Training Guide: Not currently required in the 3M0X1
Career Field. This is only required if merging specialties.

2.2. Part II includes the following:

2.2.1. Section A, Specialty Training Standard: Identifies the Specialty Training
Standard (STS), technical references to support training, Air Education and
Training Command (AETC) conducted training, and exportable course
requirements.

                                        1
2.2.2. Section B, Course Objective List: Contains the course objective list and
training standards which supervisors will use to determine if Airmen have
satisfied training requirements.

2.2.3. Section C, Support Materials:   Identifies references and other support
materials.

2.2.4. Section D, Training Course Index: Identifies a training course index
supervisors can use to determine resources available to support training.
Included are both mandatory and optional courses.

2.2.5. Section E, MAJCOM Unique Requirements: Includes any requirements
unique to a specific MAJCOM. MAJCOM Managers will meet their education
and training requirements.




                                       2
Acronyms and Glossary of Terms

This section provides a common understanding of the acronyms and terms that
apply to the 3M0X1 CFETP.

Acronyms:

AEF - Aerospace Expeditionary Force
AFCDA - Air Force Career Development Academy
AFCFM - Air Force Career Field Manager
AFTR - Air Force Training Record
APF - Appropriated Funds
CCAF - Community College of the Air Force
CDC - Career Development Course
CFETP - Career Field Education and Training Plan
COL - Course Objective List
CT - Continuation Training
DoDI - Department of Defense Instruction
FAC - Functional Account Code
FSCT - Force Support Combat Training
GPC - Government Purchase Card
HSRT - Home Station and Readiness Training
MAJCOM - Major Command
MTL - Master Task Listing
MTT - Mobile Training Teams
NAF - Nonappropriated Funds
OJT - On the Job Training
QT - Qualification Training
RIBS - Readiness In Base Services
SEI - Special Experience Identifier
SME – Subject Matter Expert
STA - Services Training Aid
STS - Specialty Training Standard
STRT - Specialty Training Requirements Team
TM - Training Manual
TO - Technical Order
UGT - Upgrade Training
UTM - Unit Training Manager
U&TW- Utilization and Training Workshop




                                     3
Glossary of Terms:

Advanced Training (AT) - Formal course that provides individuals who are
qualified in one or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with
additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field. Training
is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.

Air Force Career Development Academy (AFCDA) - Manages most CDC and
specialized course manuscripts for the Air Force. Publications are sent to AFCDA
for review, editing, test construction, publication, and administration.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) - Overall manager and approval
authority for all matters affecting training for the Air Force Specialty Codes
(AFSC) they manage, including authority for waiving mandatory requirements.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS) - Training documents approved
by the AFCFM for a particular job type or duty position within an AFS.

Air Force Personnel Center/Services Directorate (AFPC/SV) - Develops and
executes training approved in the career path for 3M0X1 personnel. Makes
certain functional training is coordinated with the AFCFM to ensure career field
needs are in tandem with AETC.

Air Force Specialty (AFS) - A group of positions (with the same title and code)
that require common qualifications. (i.e. Services)

Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) - A combination of numbers and alpha
characters used to identify an AFS. (i.e. 3M0X1)

Air Force Training Record (AFTR) - The electronic format used to document
training records for OJT, UGT, HSRT, Ancillary Training, and all other training
requirements.

Career Development Course (CDC) - Self-study correspondence courses that
provide Airmen with fundamental knowledge of their AFS. CDCs directly support
the Air Force OJT program and the Air Force promotion system.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) - A comprehensive core
training document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements,
training support resources, and minimum core task requirements for a specialty.
The CFETP aims to give personnel a clear career path. It is the formal training
contract between the AFCFM and AETC for formal accession and life-cycle skills
training. Ref. AFI 36-2201.

Certification - A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to


                                         4
required standards.

Certification Official - A person whom the commander assigns to determine an
individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards. Certifiers must be at
least a SSgt with a 5-skill level or civilian equivalent, capable of evaluating the
task being certified, and have completed the Air Force Trainers Course.
Certification official will not be the trainer.

Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) - A fully accredited educational
institution created to meet the needs of Air Force enlisted personnel.

Continuation Training (CT) - Additional advanced training exceeding the
minimum upgrade training requirements with emphasis on present or future duty
assignments.

Course Objective List (COL) - A publication derived from initial and advanced
skills course training standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements,
and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill level in this
career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate
evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Developing, Managing, and
Conducting Military Training Programs.

Exportable Courses - Additional courses via computer assisted, paper text,
interactive video, or other means necessary to supplement training.

Fatality Search and Recovery Team (FSRT) - A team specifically trained and
equipped to handle search and recovery operations in a Chemical, Biological,
Radiological, and Nuclear environment and with multiple comingled remains.

Go - The stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge, and
experience to perform the tasks without supervision; meeting the task standard.

Home Station Readiness Training (HSRT) - Training that consists of computer-
based training enhancements, self-study guides, classroom education, hands-on
equipment training, duty specific training based on UTC assignment and ancillary
training such as weapons qualification, CBRNE defense training and self-aid and
buddy care.

Initial Skills Training - The formal school course that results in a 3M031 AFSC
for enlisted personnel after the completion of basic training or once an individual
has been selected to retrain into the 3M0X1 career field.

No Go - Trainee has not gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to
perform task without supervision. Member does not meet task standard.

On-the-Job Training (OJT) - Hands on, “over-the-shoulder” observation and/or
instruction conducted to certify personnel in both upgrade (skill level award) and

                                        5
job qualification (position certification) training. The AF OJT program consists of
three components. The first component, job knowledge, is satisfied through
career development courses (CDCs). It is designed to provide basic knowledge
across a wide spectrum of subjects pertaining to a career field. When CDCs are
not available, trainees study the applicable technical references identified by the
supervisor and/or CFETP. The second component is job proficiency. This is the
hands-on training provided on the job, allowing the trainee to gain proficiency in
tasks performed in the work center. The third component is job experience,
gained during and after upgrade training, to build confidence and competence.
Career knowledge, general task, and deployment/unit type code (UTC) task
knowledge, applicable to the Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC), is gained through
a planned program of study involving CDCs or technical references listed in the
applicable CFETP.

Performance Standard –Tasks are trained and qualified to the “Go” level. “Go”
means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local
demands for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures. (“Go” level
equates to 3C in the STS proficiency code key.)

Proficiency Training - Additional training, either in-residence or exportable
advanced training courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to
increase their skills and knowledge based on duty position.

Qualification Training (QT) - Hands-on performance training designed to qualify
an Airman in a specific position. This training occurs both during and after
upgrade training to maintain up-to-date qualifications.

3M0X1 Core Areas - Food Service, Lodging, Fitness and Sports, Readiness,
Mortuary Affairs, and Protocol.

Services Training Aid (STA) - STAs are developed by AFPC/SV and designed
to help training managers and trainers conduct effective, standardized training
throughout the 3M0X1 career field. They outline the specific training on-the-job
training requirements as an extension of the STS tasks. They also reference the
information necessary to conduct training. STAs are training tools and the STS
is the authorized means of documenting training via the Air Force Training
Record. STAs are not designed to let the trainees train themselves. Before
training begins, the trainer should review applicable portions of each STA to
ensure they coincide with the core area Master Training Plan. The STAs can be
found on the Force Support Knowledge Center (https://fskc.csd.disa.mil).

Specialty Training Standard (STS) - An Air Force publication (typically inserted
as Part II of the CFETP) that describes an Air Force specialty in terms of tasks
and knowledge that an Airman in that specialty may be expected to perform or to
know on-the-job. Also identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-
skill level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract between AETC
and the functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an

                                        6
AFSC are taught in formal schools and correspondence courses.

Specialty Training Requirements Team (STRT) - Formerly known as the
U&TW, the STRT is a forum of primary participants (MAJCOM POCs, AFPC/SV
POC, ARC personnel, AFS SMEs) to determine the education and training
requirements of the career field based on Occupational Analysis data and
changing needs. The CFETP will be approved at the close of the STRT. SMEs
and AFPC/SV provide guidance for each task that is taught.

Trainer - A trained and qualified person who teaches personnel to perform
specific tasks through OJT methods. Trainers must be qualified to perform the
task being trained, and have completed the Air Force Trainer Course.

Training Deficiency - Required training that could not be conducted.

Upgrade Training (UGT) - Mandatory training leading to the award of a higher
skill level of proficiency.

Unit Training Manager (UTM) - Unit focal point for all training related questions,
needs, requirements, or assistance.




                                        7
SECTION A – General Information

1. Purpose of the CFETP. The CFETP provides information necessary for the
AFCFM, commanders, UTMs, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop,
manage, and conduct effective and efficient career field training programs. This
plan outlines training requirements an individual in this AFS should receive in
order to develop and progress through their career. This plan identifies initial
skills, upgrade qualification, advanced and proficiency training. Individuals
receive initial skills training upon entry into the career field. Upgrade training
identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and
correspondence courses required for award of the 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels.
These courses are provided to personnel to increase the skill and knowledge
required for upgrade. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance
training designed to qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training
program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is
designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge required to do the job.
Advanced training is formal specialty training. Proficiency training is additional
training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-
job training provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond
the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate the
3M0X1 career field training program. It is used to help supervisors identify
training requirements throughout an individual’s career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the
specialty and recommends education and training throughout each phase of an
individual's career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training,
and provides the training method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the
desired career field training process.

2. Use of the CFETP. The plan will be used by MAJCOMs, UTMs, supervisors
and trainees at all levels to ensure comprehensive and cohesive training
programs are available for all 3M0X1 personnel.

2.1. AETC and AFPC/SV training personnel will develop or revise formal
resident, nonresident, field and exportable training based upon requirements
established by the users and documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also
work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining resources
needed to provide identified training.



                                          8
2.2. MAJCOMs will ensure training programs complement the CFETP mandatory
initial, upgrade, and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract
training, or exportable courses can satisfy identified requirements. MAJCOM-
developed training to support this AFSC must be identified for inclusion into this
plan.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified
in this plan. The lists of courses in Part II will be used as reference to support
training.

2.4. The CFETP provides guidance for supervisors at all levels to
conduct/monitor training and mentor trainees throughout their careers.
Supporting documents, AFIs, and applicable references should be used along
with this publication.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority of the
CFETP. The AFCFM initiates an annual review of this document to ensure
currency and accuracy. MAJCOM, AFPC/SV representatives, and AETC training
personnel will identify and coordinate on career field training requirements.

SECTION B -- 3M0X1 Progression and Information

4. Specialty Descriptions.

4.1 Specialty Summary.       Manages and directs Force Support programs,
operations, and retail operations. Supervises and works in appropriated fund
(APF) food service activities; lodging activities; recreation, fitness and sports
programs, laundry operations; mortuary affairs programs; honor guard teams;
protocol operations, missile alert facilities, and Force Support readiness
programs.    Operates and supervises automated information management
systems. Related DoD Occupational Subgroups: 180000.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.2.1. Manages Force Support operations.        Improves work methods and
procedures to ensure economic operation and customer satisfaction. Resolves
customer complaints. Applies accounting principles to control resources.
Determines Appropriated and Nonappropriated (NAF) budget requirements.
Requisitions and accounts for subsistence, supplies, and equipment needed to
support Services specific and Force Support programs. Identifies facility
requirements and conducts surveys to determine facility renovation, construction,
and modernization needs. Develops capital expenditures programs for APF and
NAF facilities. Establishes equipment layout, and operation and maintenance
procedures. Manages resource management to include APF and NAF accounts.
Maintains close liaison with commanders and unit fitness managers on the Air
Force Fitness Program. Operates and supervises automated accounting,
requisitioning, and reporting systems.     Performs recreation programming.
Maintains unit readiness program. Establishes and supervises bare base

                                        9
facilities that provide food service, fitness, lodging, sports management,
recreation, laundry, mortuary services, field resale operations, and protocol
support to deployed personnel.

4.2.2. Inspects and evaluates Force Support activities. Determines effectiveness
of service and retail operation programs by analyzing accomplishments with
planned program standards and goals.            Ensures storage facilities and
procedures are in place to adequately safeguard subsistence, equipment, and
supplies. Performs quality assurance evaluation duties for contract services.
Analyzes inspection findings and takes corrective action.

4.2.3. Performs Services functions. Operates fixed, bare base, missile alert and
portable food service facilities and equipment. Plans, prepares, and adjusts
menus. Determines resource availability, pricing, and merchandise trends.
Establishes resale merchandise prices, inventory levels, and safeguarding
procedures. Maintains liaison with civilian industry to keep abreast of current
trends, product development, and improved customer service techniques.
Ascertains occupancy status, and determines and certifies non-availability of
transient quarters. Explains concepts of fitness requirements. Explains and
demonstrates proper conditioning procedures, weight training, and aerobic
equipment techniques. Promotes physical fitness participation. Works technical
mortuary functions such as supervising teams for the search and recovery of
human remains. Arranges for transporting and disposition of remains. Ensures
mortuary entitlements, escorts, and military honors are arranged. Establishes
and maintains mortuary case files. Serves as installation and MAJCOM level
protocol NCO. Works with general officers, escorts distinguished visitors,
advises, setup and precedence during official ceremonies.

5. Skill and Career Progression

5.1 Helper (1) Level - The 1-skill level identifies enlisted personnel initially
classified in an AFS when entering the Air Force or when retraining. Helpers are
assigned to the Services Academy to complete the Services Apprentice Course.

5.2. Apprentice (3) Level - The 3-skill level identifies enlisted personnel who have
obtained basic knowledge within an AFSC through completion of the Services
Apprentice Course. Apprentices gain duty position experience and, upon
completion, enter a structured apprenticeship program to gain qualification and
experience required of a 5-skill level (journeyman). Primary duty positions for
3M0X1 apprentice Airmen include: dining facility cook, missile chef, fitness center
apprentice, and lodging front desk clerk. Force Support Contingency Training
(FSCT) and Home Station Readiness Training (HSRT) will continue throughout
career development.

5.3. Journeyman (5) Level - The 5-skill level identifies enlisted personnel who,
through experience and training, have demonstrated skilled proficiency in their
AFSC. Journeymen continue to gain experience and qualification in their AFSC
and upon promotion to staff sergeant, enter a structured training program to gain

                                        10
experience and qualification required of a craftsman (7-skill level). Primary duty
positions for Services journeymen include: dining facility shift leader, fitness
center technician, protocol specialists and lodging front desk clerk. Services
journeymen assigned as shift leaders are eligible to complete the AETC Shift
Leader MTT course. AFPC/SV offers several mid-level courses to include: food
operations, lodging operations, and readiness management. Air University
(AFHRMS) offers courses for mortuary affairs and protocol. FSCT and HSRT will
continue throughout career development.

SrA are eligible to apply for AETC instructor.

5.4. Craftsman (7) Level - The 7-skill level identifies enlisted personnel who have
gained a high degree of technical knowledge in their AFSC and have acquired
supervisory capability through training and experience. Craftsmen continue to
gain experience in technical, supervisory, and managerial functions. Primary
duty positions for 3M0X1 craftsmen include: dining facility NCOIC, certified
fitness center specialist, lodging NCOIC, readiness NCOIC, protocol specialist,
recreation programmer, training manager, and section chief (MSgts). Craftsmen
are also able to fill resource management positions, however not to exceed 24
months to allow for career progression.

Fitness center personnel must complete the Fitness Specialist in-residence or
MTT course within 180 days of an assignment to a fitness center IAW AFI 34-
266. Readiness Managers must complete the AFPC/SV PRIME RIBS
Readiness Managers course within six months of assignment IAW AFI 10-214.
The HG NCOIC will attend the appropriate program management training course
conducted by the Air Force Honor Guard within three to six months of
appointment as the installation NCOIC IAW AFI 34-242 Chapter 8.

AFPC/SV offers additional management courses to include: Introductory
Services Management Course, Services Management Course, fitness
management, food management, lodging management, and training
management. Air University (AFHRMS) offers mortuary affairs and protocol
courses. FSCT and HSRT will continue throughout career development.

Completion of the Services Academy’s Activity Manager Distance Learning
Course is required for upgrade to 7-level for active duty personnel. ARC
personnel are highly encouraged to complete this course.

SSgts and TSgts are eligible to apply for special duty positions such as AETC
Technical Training Instructor, and FSCT instructors, protocol, Honor Guard,
AFPC/SV, Air Force Mortuary Affairs Operations (AFMAO), MAJCOM program
manager, CCAF Program Manager, and Air Force Executive/Joint Chief of Staff
Dining Facility.

MSgts are eligible to apply for MAJCOM/IG positions, FSCT Site Manager, CDC
Writer, AFPC/SV Program Manager, AFMAO Program Manager, MAJCOM
Program Manager, AFPC/DPW (AEF Center), AETC Training Manager and Air

                                        11
Force Executive Dining Facility.

5.5. Superintendent (9) Level - The 9-skill level identifies enlisted personnel who,
through experience, training, and performance, have shown a high degree of
managerial and supervisory ability to fill positions requiring broad general (and
sometimes technical) knowledge. Primary positions for Services Superintendent
Airmen include: Force Support activity/flight/squadron superintendent, Food
Service, Fitness, Readiness, and Lodging Section Chief.

SMSgts are eligible to apply for MAJCOM/IG positions, AFPC/SV
Superintendent, MAJCOM Program Manager and AFPC/DPAA1 Enlisted
Assignments Manager.

5.6. Superintendent (3M000) - CMSgts and CMSgt selectees are top enlisted
managers in both highly technical skills and in broad areas of managerial and
leadership competence. CMSgts will attend developmental courses as directed
by their MAJCOM and AF/DPE.

6. Training Decisions

6.1 The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the 3M0X1 career
field. This spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the
training requirements. This section outlines decisions made at the U&TW held
18-22 Jun 2012.

6.2 Specialized Experience Identifiers were removed as they no longer meet the
needs of the career field.

6.3 Removal of core tasks. The intent of core tasks is to apply to all members of
the career field. The decision is to remove the core tasks and incorporate them
into core area master training plans.

6.4 Services Academy Activity Manager Course will be a requirement for 7-skill
level upgrade. Previously, this course was required within 1 year of receiving a
promotion line number to TSgt.

6.5 Mortuary Affairs and Protocol are now considered core areas in addition to
the existing four core areas.

6.6 Personnel rotations after the experiential component of the 7-skill level is
achieved will be dictated by mission requirements and individual career goals.
The Services career field requires both generalists and specialists; once the two-
core requirement is satisfied Airmen can remain in a core function for an
extended period of time or rotate between different areas. Rotation of the 3M071
into Resource Management or Recreation Programming positions will not exceed
24 months.


                                        12
7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Enrollment in CCAF occurs
for all enlisted Airmen upon completion of Basic Military Training. CCAF
provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate of Applied Sciences Degree.

7.1. Degree Requirements. Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-skill
level must be awarded and the following requirements must be met:
                                                              Semester Hours
Technical Education                                                     24
Leadership Management, and Military Studies                              6
Physical Education                                                       4
General Education                                                       15
Program Elective                                                        15
(Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General
Education)
Total                                                                   64

7.2. Additional off-duty education is encouraged for all. Special Duty Assignment
(SDA) requires an AETC instructor candidate to have a CCAF degree or be
within one year of completion (45 semester hours). A degreed faculty is
necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of
Colleges and Schools.

8. Career Field Path. The 3M0X1 Career Field Path, Figure 1, is a guide that
graphically displays the chronological path for a career 3M0X1 Airman. Airmen
will use this template as a guide to reference the appropriate development during
their careers.




                                   Figure 1.
                                       13
                           3M0X1 Career Field Path

8.1. 3M0X1 Career Progression Planning Tool. This tool is a recommended
guide for 3M0X1 personnel as they progress from apprentice to superintendent.
Figure 2 and 2.1 detail training based on the six Services core areas. It is used
by as a roadmap to identify appropriate steps for future development into
superintendent and special duty positions.




                                    Figure 2




                                        14
              Figure 2.1


3M0X1 Career Progression Planning Tool




                 15
SECTION C -- Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this specialty are defined in terms
of tasks and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty
qualification requirements for each skill level in broad general terms and
establishes mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each skill
level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements are identified in
Part II, STS, Sections A and B of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualification Requirements.

Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory description:

10.1. Knowledge.       Knowledge is mandatory of: accounting procedures;
management principles; merchandising; marketing; customer service; automated
information systems; use of business machines; food service facility operations;
subsistence management; requisition and issue procedures; menu planning;
lodging operations; fitness, sports, and recreation program development;
personnel management; APF and NAF budgetary sources and processes; facility
and equipment maintenance procedures; basic business administration
concepts; NAF procedures; retail operations; responsibilities for mortuary affairs,
and search and recovery procedures; responsibilities for lost, damaged, stolen,
or destroyed property; and operation of readiness units.

10.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with
courses in business arithmetic, accounting, computers, home economics,
physical education, and typing is desirable.

10.3. Other requirements.

10.3.1. The following are mandatory for entry into the career field: No record of
disciplinary action for financial irresponsibility, shoplifting, larceny, petty larceny,
or theft.

10.3.2. The following are mandatory for entry, award, and retention into the
3M0X1 Career Field: Ability to speak distinctly, never been convicted by courts-
martial, and never been convicted and sentenced to confinement by a civilian
court.

10.4. Apprentice (3M031).

10.4.1. Knowledge.     Knowledge is mandatory of: accounting procedures;
management principles; merchandising; marketing; customer service; automated
information systems; use of business machines; food service facility operations;
subsistence management; requisition and issue procedures; menu planning;
lodging operations; fitness, sports, and recreation program development;

                                          16
personnel management; APF and NAF budgetary sources and processes; facility
and equipment maintenance procedures; basic business administration
concepts; NAF procedures; retail operations; responsibilities for mortuary affairs,
and search and recovery procedures; responsibilities for lost, damaged, stolen,
or destroyed property; and operation of readiness units.

10.4.2. Education. Completion of the Services Apprentice Course.

10.4.3. Training. Training is accomplished through completion of the Services
Apprentice Course and is mandatory for new accessions into the career field.

10.5. Journeyman (3M051).

10.5.1. Knowledge. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3M031.

10.5.2. Education. Completion of 5-level CDCs (Services Journeyman) is
mandatory for skill level award. One volume per month is recommended to
ensure timely completion of CDCs.

10.5.3. Training. Training will primarily consist of OJT. Specific and knowledge
training requirements are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A and B of this
CFETP.

10.5.4. Experience. Experience in functions such as preparing, cooking, baking,
presenting, and serving food; instructing, coaching, officiating, or directing
athletic activities; planning, organizing, and conducting recreation programs;
securing supplies, facilities, and performers; proper use and maintenance of
recreation supplies and equipment; retail operations; or subsistence functions.

10.6. Craftsman (3M071).

10.6.1. Knowledge. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3M051.

10.6.2. Education.     Completion of 7-level CDCs (Services Craftsman) is
mandatory for skill level. One volume per month is recommended in order to
ensure timely completion.

10.6.3. Training. Training will primarily consist of OJT. Specific tasks and
knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A
and B of this CFETP.

Completion of the Services Academy’s Activity Manager Distance Learning
Course is required for upgrade to 7-level for active duty personnel. Air Reserve
Component personnel are highly encouraged to complete this course.

10.6.4. Experience. Qualification in two core areas is mandatory for award of the
7-skill level. 3M0X1 core areas are Food Service, Lodging, Fitness and Sports,
Readiness, Mortuary Affairs and Protocol. Individuals must be assigned for a

                                        17
minimum of 18 months and meet job qualification requirements to be given credit
for each core area. After the experiential component of the 7-skill level
requirement is attained rotation should be based on mission needs and individual
career goals.

10.7. Superintendent (3M091).

10.7.1. Knowledge. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3M071.

10.7.2. Education. Force Support Superintendent Course is desired.

10.7.3. Training. Completion of activity manager level courses are desired.

10.7.4. Experience. Experience managing and operating 3M0X1 specific
programs and Force Support programs such as Food Service, Fitness and
Sports, Readiness, Mortuary Affairs, Lodging, and Protocol.

10.8. Superintendent (3M000).

10.8.1. Education. Force Support Superintendent Course is desired.

10.8.2. Training. Completion of activity manager level courses is desired.

11. Training Sources

11.1. Services Apprentice Course is a CCAF accredited course.          Successful
completion of this course results in the award of AFSC 3M031.

11.2. Fitness Specialist Course is a CCAF accredited course. This course is a
blended course. There is a prerequisite web based block of instruction that is
followed by the (in-residence) or (MTT) block of instruction. Successful
completion of this course results in the award of the Fitness Specialist
Certification.

11.3. Food Service Shift Leader Course, (MTT) is a CCAF accredited course.

11.4. Activity Manager Course, is a CCAF accredited web-based course with
testing accomplished through the local base education office. The Activity
Manager Course is mandatory for 7- skill upgrade.

11.5. Advanced Culinary Course is an in-residence course taught as Fort Lee,
VA. Successful completion of this course will award 3 semester hours in Culinary
Arts; recommended from the American Council of Education. This course is
designed for service members from all U.S. military branches, to include National
Guard and Reserve Component, in grade E-5 and above in food service-related
specialties primarily the Enlisted Aides (8A200) but also available for Services
personnel who possess or show potential to cultivate higher level cooking skills.


                                       18
11.6. For AFPC/SV Training, refer to the Force Support Knowledge Center
(https://fskc.csd.disa.mil) for a wide range of classes available to the 3M0X1
career field.

11.7. Air University’s Ira C. Eaker Center for Professional Development: Air
Force Human Resource Management School (AFHRMS) is located at Maxwell
AFB, Al and is responsible for leadership development for the Force Support
career fields and supervisory development through professional continuing
education for the Air Force. Refer to Part II, Section D, paragraph 5.5 of this
CFETP for a list of courses applicable to enlisted 3M0X1 members.

11.8 CCAF and National Professional Certifications are offered through AU. For
professional certifications refer to the web link below for a wide range of
certifications available to the 3M0X1 career field.

(https://augateway.maxwell.af.mil/ccaf/certifications/programs/index.asp)

11.8.1 American Council on Exercise (ACE) offers the Personal Trainer
Certification, Advanced Health + Fitness Specialist Certification, Lifestyle +
Weight Management consultant Certification and Group Fitness Instructor
Certification.

11.8.2 National Restaurant Association Educational Foundation (NRAEF) offers
the ServSafe Certification and ServSafe Instructor Certification.

11.8.3 National Strength and Conditioning Association Certification Commission
(NSCA) offer the Certified Personal Trainer and Certified Strength and
Conditioning Specialist certifications.

11.8.4 International Food Service Executives Association (IFSEA) offers the
Certified Food Executive, Certified Food Manager, and Master Certified Food
Executive certifications.

11.8.5 Institute of Certified Professional Managers (ICPM) offers the Certified
Manager Certification.

11.8.6 Starkey International Institute (SII) offers the Certified Household
Management and Certified Household Management System certifications.

11.8.7 Culinary Institute of America (CIA) offers the ProChef Certification Level I
– Certified Culinarian.

11.8.8 American Culinary Federation (ACF) offers the Certified Culinarian,
Certified Sous Chef, Certified Chef De Cuisine, Certified Executive Chef,
Personal Certified, Certified Pastry Culinarian and Chef Certified Master Chef
certifications.



                                        19
12. Implementation

12.1. Implementation of the 3M0X1 career progression path is best represented
by showing the timeline in the career of our Airmen. The figures and tables that
follow represent how the Air Force Enlisted Force Development path (Figure 3)
parallels with the 3M0X1 Enlisted Force Development (Figure 4).




                                      20
               Figure 3.
Air Force Enlisted Force Development




             Figure 4.
 3M0X1 Enlisted Force Development

                21
          Table 1: Active Duty Education and Training Requirements
                                                                     GRADE REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                         High
   EDUCATION AND TRAINING REQUIREMENTS (AD)                                    Earliest
                                                                       Average          Year of
                                                                Rank            Sew-
                                                                       Sew-On           Tenure
                                                                                 On
                                                                                        (HYT)
Apprentice Technical School (3 Skill Level)
- Graduate Services Apprentice Course                           Amn     6 mos
- Attend First Term Airman Course (FTAC)                        A1C     16 mos
Upgrade to Journeyman (5 Skill Level)
- Minimum 12 months in OJT                                      Amn
- Signed off in applicable tasks/core tasks of STS              A1C     10 mos
- Complete all CDCs within 15 months of enrollment              SrA      3 yrs     28 mos     8 yrs
Airman Leadership School (ALS)
- Must be SrA with 48 months time in service or SSgt
selectee                                                         SrA
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt sew-on (AD
Only)
Trainer
                                                                None
- Must attend formal AF Trainer Course and appointed by
Commander
- Trainers must be qualified/certified on tasks to be trained
Upgrade to Craftsman (7 Skill Level)
- Minimum 12 months OJT                                         SSgt    7.5 yrs     3 yrs     15 yrs
- Signed off in applicable tasks of STS
- Must be fully qualified in 2 core areas
- Complete all CDCs within 15 months of enrollment
- Complete Services Academy Activity Manager
Course
Other Training
Noncommissioned Professional Enhancement Course                 SSgt
Certifier
- Must be at least a SSgt with 5 skill level or civilian
equivalent                                                      SSgt
- Must attend formal AF Trainer Course
- Must be a person other than the trainer
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt selectee                               TSgt    12.5 yrs    5 yrs     20 yrs
- Resident graduation is prerequisite for MSgt sew-on           MSgt     16 yrs     8 yrs     24 yrs
Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy (SNCOA)                          Note: TSgts can enroll in the
- Course 14                                                             Course 14 after completion of
- In-residence graduation is prerequisite for SMSgt sew-on      MSgt    NCOA and 2 yrs TIG
Upgrade to Superintendent (9 Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt                                         SMSgt   19.2 yrs   11 yrs     26 yrs
Additional Training
- MAJCOM CMSgt Orientation                                      CMSgt   21.5 yrs   14 yrs     30 yrs

Note: IAW AFI 36-2201, AFCFM ensures AFS concerns are assessed and satisfied. Consider all
recommendations before making a final decision or recommendation as applicable.


                                                  22
                  Table 2: Active Duty Retraining Requirements
                               3-Level Retraining Requirements
- Completion of the Initial Skills Course. Trainee will be given a training line number upon
approval of retraining if applicable.
OR
- If the AFCFM determines an Initial Skills Course quota is not available the trainee must have
approval of the AFCFM for upgrade to 3-level using the approval process listed below.
- The supervisor will write a training plan that is approved by the Unit Training Manager. The
Unit Training Manager will ensure the training plan is coordinated with the Services Installation
Support Directorate (AFPC/SVI) as well as the Base Training Manager. The trainee must be
signed off on all tasks listed in Part II, STS, Column 4A1. The OJT plan must be completed 6
months from the date entered into upgrade training.
- The trainee must complete other duty position requirements as identified by the supervisor.
- Once the individual has met all training requirements, the Unit Training Manager will prepare a
letter and coordinate through the Unit/CC for approval/upgrade.

                               5-Level Retraining Requirements
- Complete all 5-level CDCs.
- Complete all 5-level STS line items for the assigned core area.
- Other duty position requirements as identified by supervisor.
- Complete minimum of 9 months in UGT.

- Have supervisor recommendation.

                               7-Level Retraining Requirements
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- Complete all 7-level CDCs.
- Complete all 7-level STS line items for the assigned core area.
- Other duty position requirements as identified by supervisor.
- Complete minimum of 6 months in UGT.
- Have supervisor recommendation.
- Complete Services Academy Activity Manager Distance Learning Course (L6ONU34M 0L5X)




                                               23
          Table 3: ARC Enlisted Education and Training Requirements
                                                                      GRADE REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                          High
                                                                                Earliest
 EDUCATION AND TRAINING REQUIREMENTS (ARC)                              Average          Year of
                                                                 Rank            Sew-
                                                                        Sew-On           Tenure
                                                                                  On
                                                                                         (HYT)
Apprentice Technical School (3 Skill Level)
- Graduate Services Apprentice Course                            Amn     6 mos
                                                                 A1C     16 mos
Upgrade to Journeyman (5 Skill Level)
- Minimum 12 months in OJT                                       None
- Signed off in applicable tasks of STS
- Complete all CDCs within 15 months of enrollment
Airman Leadership School (ALS)
- Must be SrA with 48 months time in service or SSgt
select                                                           SrA
- ALS/Correspondence Course required to sew on SSgt
Trainer
                                                                 None
- Must attend formal AF Trainer Course and appointed by
Commander
- Trainers must be qualified/certified on tasks to be trained
- May be 3-lvl if requirements are met IAW AFI 36-2201
Upgrade to Craftsman (7 Skill Level)
- Minimum 12 months OJT                                          SSgt    4.5 yrs    3 yrs    33 yrs
- Signed off in applicable core areas of STS
- Must be fully qualified in 2 core areas
- Complete all CDCs within 15 months of enrollment
Certifier
- Must be at least a SSgt with a 5 skill level or civilian
equivalent                                                       SSgt
- Must attend form AF Trainer Course
- Must be a person other than a trainer
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)
- Course 14                                                      TSgt    8.2 yrs    5 yrs    33 yrs
                                                                 MSgt    13.1 yrs   8 yrs    33 yrs
Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy (SNCOA)
- Residence/correspondence graduation is prerequisite for
SMSgt                                                            MSgt
Upgrade to Superintendent (9 Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt                                         SMSgt    19.2 yrs   11 yrs   33 yrs
Additional Training
- Complete Services Academy Activity Managers Course            CMSgt    21.5 yrs   14 yrs   33 yrs
(MSgt-CMSgt) (L6ANW3M071 0L5X)
(Optional for ANG/ARC)                                          ANG-CEC must be scheduled within 18
                                                                mos of Date of Rank (DOR)




                                                   24
                        Table 4: ARC Retraining Requirements
                                 3-Level Retraining Requirements

 - Completion of the Initial Skills Course (LCABP3M031 0L5X).
 OR Retrainee with prior certification and ARC equivalent of AFCFM approval waiver package.
 (See Note) IAW AFI 36-2201
 OR If retrainee is MSgt or above will submit waiver package (See Note).


 - Must have knowledge training on all tasks taught in the initial skills course signed off in STS.
 - ANG -- Will spend 10 days/80 hours (non-consecutive) at an active duty base rotating through
 each core area.
 - Other duty position requirements identified by the supervisor.
                                 5-Level Retraining Requirements
 - Minimum 9 months in UGT.
 - Complete all 5-level CDCs.
 - Complete all 5-level STS line items for the assigned function.
 - ANG -- Complete all OJT tasks identified in the MTL.
 - Other duty position tasks identified by supervisor.
                                 7-Level Retraining Requirements
 - Rank of SSgt.
 - Complete all 7-level CDCs.
 - Complete all 7-level STS line items for the assigned function.
 - ANG -- Complete all 7-level STS items for 2 core areas.
 - ANG -- Complete all OJT tasks identified in the MTL for 2 core areas.
 - Minimum of 9 months in UGT.
 - Other duty position tasks as identified by supervisor.

Note: IAW AFI 36-2201, ARC (to include IMAs) HQ-Level Functional Managers (FM) have waiver
authority for mandatory training requirements equivalent to that of AFCFM. Waivers are reviewed
for approval/disapproval on case-by-case basis. This includes education requirements such as
prerequisite AFSC initial skills courses (if the individual has equivalent skills through civilian
experience or education), upgrade time requirements for the 5-and 7-skill level, and 7-skill level
courses.




                                                 25
SECTION D -- Resource Constraints

12. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints, which preclude
optimal/desired training from being developed or conducted, such as cost or
manpower and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint has
on training.

12.1. Apprentice Level Training Constraints: There are no resource constraints at
this time.

12.2. Journeyman Level Training Constraints: There are no resource constraints
at this time.

12.3. Craftsman Level Training Constraints: There are no resource constraints at
this time.

12.4. Superintendent Level Training Constraints: There are no resource
constraints at this time.

SECTION E -- Transition Training Guide

“There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.”




BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                         DARRELL D. JONES
                                                 Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                 DCS/Manpower and Personnel




                                        26
Part II

SECTION A -- Specialty Training Standard

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by
AETC for Apprentice classes beginning October 2013 and graduating December
2013.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

2.1. Lists in the column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most
common tasks, knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for Airmen
to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.

2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 2 is used to record completion of task
and knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management
systems to document technician qualifications, if available. Task certification
must show a certification or completed date.

2.3. Column 3 shows the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the
graduate as a result of initial skills training on the task and knowledge and the
career knowledge provided by the correspondence course.

NOTE: All tasks for 3-skill level will be accomplished in an expedited manner
during wartime (tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code in
column 3A1). Academic days are extended to 12-hours, six days a week for the
duration of the course.

2.4. Qualitative Requirements. Figure 5 contains the proficiency key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and
career development courses.




                                         27
                                               Proficiency Code Key
                            Scale
                                         Definition: The individual
                            Value
                                         Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of
                               1         the task. (Extremely Limited)
      Task                               Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially
                               2         Proficient)
  Performance                            Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.
     Levels                    3         (Competent)
                                         Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to
                               4         do the task. (Highly Proficient)
                               a         Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
     *Task                     b         Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
   Knowledge                             Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                               c
     Levels                              (Operating Principles)
                              d          Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                              A          Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
                                         Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the
    **Subject                 B          subject. (Principles)
   Knowledge                             Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.
                              C
      Levels                             (Analysis)
                                         Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject.
                              D          (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge
for a specific task. (Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any
specific task, or for a subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.
OJT is still required.

# This mark is used to indicate automation required for use in reaching the objective but not a substitute for Task
Performance.

                                                  Figure 5.
                                         Qualitative Requirements




                                                            28
3M0X1 STS Worksheet                                  2. Certification For OJT              3. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note).
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A       B        C          D            A               B               C
                                                                                          3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
                                                     Trng    Trng   Trainee    Trainer         (1)             (1)             (1)
                                                     Start   Done   Initials   Initials     Course            CDC             CDC



1. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH
TR: AFI 32-2001, 91-202, 91-204, 91-301, 91-302;
Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH)
STD 91-300, 91-31, 91-43, 91-46

1.1. AFOSH                                                                                     A                -               -
TR: AFI 91-301
1.2. Work area hazards                                                                         A                -               -
TR: AFI 91-202, 91-204
1.3. Safety hazards responses                                                                  A                -               -
TR: AFI 91-202, 91-205
1.4. Safe use of cleaning agents                                                               A                -               -
TR: AFOSH 91-43
1.5. Fire prevention procedures                                                                B                -               -
TR: AFI 91-302, 32-2001
1.6. Apply lifting techniques                                                                 2b                -               -
TR: AFOSH 91-46
1.7. Apply safety practices when working with                                                 2b                -               -
equipment
TR: AFOSH 91-31
1.8. Apply safety procedures when working in                                                  2b                -               -
facilities
TR: AF 91-301, AFOSH 91-31
2. TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
TR: AFPD 10-2, 10-11; AFI 10-214, 38-101,
34-254, and 36-2201; Enlisted Classification
Directory; Services 3M0X1 CFETP,
www.usafservices.com
2.1. Force Support Squadron overview                                                           A                -               -
TR: CDC
2.2. Services enlisted career field overview                                                   A                -               -
TR: AFI 34-254, CFETP
2.3. Services enlisted career field progression                                                A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-254, CFETP
2.4. 3M0X1 AFSC duties                                                                          -              A                -
TR: Enlisted Classification Directory, CFETP
2.5. Services Training Aids (STA)                                                               -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-254, 36-2201, www.usafservices.com,
https://fskc.csd.disa.mil
2.6. Purpose of CFETP                                                                          A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-254, 36-2201
2.7. Develop work center training plan/Master Task                                              -              a               b
List (MTL)
TR: AFI 36-2201
2.8. Trainee/trainer responsibilities                                                           -              B                -
TR: AFI 10-214, 34-254, 36-2201
3 FORCE SUPPORT RECOGNITION
PROGRAMS
TR: A1 Awards Program Guide; AFI 36-2852;
www.usafservices.com
3.1 Evaluation Criteria and Responsibilities                                                    -              A               B
in Force Support Awards/Recognition Programs




                                                               29
3M0X1 STS Worksheet                                 2. Certification For OJT              3. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                         Training/Information Provided (See Note).
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         A       B        C          D            A               B               C
                                                                                         3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
                                                    Trng    Trng   Trainee    Trainer         (1)             (1)             (1)
                                                    Start   Done   Initials   Initials     Course            CDC             CDC



4 STRATEGIC CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
PLANNING
TR: AFI 34-201, 34-202, 34-204, 34-209,
34-239, 34-246, 65-106, and 65-601 V1;
www.usafservices.com
4.1. Services equipment replacement                                                            -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-204, 34-209, 65-106
4.2. Facility Improvement Requirements                                                         -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-204, 34-209, 65-106
4.3. Prepare a 5-year financial & strategic plan                                               -              a               b
TR: AFI 34-209
5 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
TR: AFPD 34-1 and 34-2; AFI 34-201, 34-202,
34-204, 34-209, 34-246, 34-407, and 65-106;
AFMAN 34-214
5.1 Sources of Funds/Income
5.1.1 Appropriated Funds                                                                      A               B               _
TR: AFI 65-106, AFMAN 34-214
5.1.2 Non-Appropriated Funds                                                                  A               B               _
TR: AFI 34-201, 65-106, AFMAN 34-214
5.2. Budgeting Concepts                                                                       _               B               _
TR: AFI 34-209, 65-106, AFMAN 34-214
5.3. Prepare Budgets                                                                          _               _               b
TR: AFI 34-209, 65-106, AFMAN 34-214
6 CONTRACTS
TR: AFPD 64-1 and 64-3; AFI 34-239, 63-
124, 64-102, and 64-302; AFMAN 34-240,
64-302; Flight Kitchen & Dining Facility
Manager’s Handbook; www.usafservices.com; FAR
8,16, 38 DFARS 208, 216 and AFFARS 5308,
5316
6.1 Types of Contracts                                                                         -               -              B
TR: AFI 63-124, 65-106, 65-601V1
6.2. Contingency Contract Clause                                                               -               -              B
TR: AFI 34-239, 65-106, 65-601 V1
6.3 Quality Assurance Evaluator/Quality Assurance                                              -              A               B
Personnel
TR: FAR, DFARS, AFFARS MP 5346.103,
AFFARS MP 5301.602-2(d)
7 PROTECTION OF ASSETS
TR: AFPD 34-2; AFI 34-201, 34-202, 34-204,
34-209, 34-246, 65-106; AFMAN 23-110 and
34-214
7.1 Internal Controls and Corrective Action
7.1.1. Asset accountability                                                                    -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-201, 34-204, 34-202, 34-209, AFMAN
34-212
7.1.2. Change fund procedures                                                                  -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-202, AFMAN 34-212
7.1.3. Imprest Fund                                                                            -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-202, AFMAN 34-212
7.1.4. Anti-robbery procedures                                                                A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-202, AFMAN 34-212
7.1.5. Cash register reports                                                                   -              B                -
TR: AFI 34-202, AFMAN 34-212



                                                              30
3M0X1 STS Worksheet                                 2. Certification For OJT              3. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                         Training/Information Provided (See Note).
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         A       B        C          D            A               B               C
                                                                                         3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
                                                    Trng    Trng   Trainee    Trainer         (1)             (1)             (1)
                                                    Start   Done   Initials   Initials     Course            CDC             CDC



7.1.6. Internal controls principles                                                            -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-202, 34-204, AFMAN 34-212
7.1.7. Conduct Inventory                                                                     1a                -               -
TR: AFI 34-201, 34-202, 34-204, 34-209, AFMAN
23-110, 34-212
7.2. Make Change (Imprest fund and cashier                                                   2b                -               -
procedures)
TR: AFI 34-202, AFMAN 34-212
8 MARKETING
TR: AFI 34-104
8.1. Marketing Concepts                                                                        -              A                -
8.2. Plan Marketing/Advertising                                                                -              a               b
9 SERVICES HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
TR: AFPD 34-3; AFI 34-209, 34-246, 34-219,
38-201, and 38-204; AFMAN 34-214, 34-310,
38-208 V1 and 64-302; DoDI 1015.10, 1015.11
9.1 Manpower Requirements
9.1.1 Unit Manpower Document (UMD)                                                             -               -              B
TR: AFI 38-201, 38-204, AFMAN 38-208 V1
9.1.2 Unit Personnel Management Roster (UPMR)                                                  -               -              B
TR:
9.1.3 Authorization Change Requests                                                            -               -              B
TR:

9.2 Activity-Specific Differences In Appropriated
Funds (APF) and Nonappropriated Funds (NAF)
Manpower Resource Principles
TR: AFMAN 34-310, 64-302; CPD Library; DoDI
1015.10, 1015.11
9.2.1. Position Descriptions                                                                   -               -              B
TR: AFMAN 34-310, CPD Library; AFPD 36-14
& AFPD 36-5
9.3. NAF Memorandum of Agreement (MOA)                                                         -               -              B
TR: AFMAN 64-302; DoDI 1015.10, 1015.11
10 FUNDAMENTALS OF FOOD PREPARATION
TR: AFPD 34-4; AFI 34-239, 40-104, and
48-116; AFMAN 34-240; USDA Food Code;
Air Force Recipe System; Flight Kitchen
Manager's Handbook; Dining Facility Manager’s
Quarterly Planner; www.usafservices.com; The Art
and Science of Culinary Preparation (textbook);
Preface to the Worldwide Menu; AMCI 24-101 V14
10.1. Cooking and baking terms                                                                A                -               -
10.2. Moist and Dry heat cooking methods                                                      A                -               -
10.3. Functions of ingredients used in pastry                                                 A                -               -
production
10.4. Seasoning agents                                                                        A                -               -
10.5. Measure Ingredients                                                                    2b                -               -
10.6. Taking temperature techniques                                                          2b                -               -
10.7. Apply progressive cooking and waste                                                    1a               b                -
prevention
10.8. Apply knife skills techniques                                                          2b                -               -
10.9. Perform taste test                                                                     2b                -               -
10.10. Apply leftover procedures                                                             1a               b                -

                                                              31
3M0X1 STS Worksheet                                  2. Certification For OJT              3. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note).
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A       B        C          D            A               B               C
                                                                                          3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
                                                     Trng    Trng   Trainee    Trainer         (1)             (1)             (1)
                                                     Start   Done   Initials   Initials     Course            CDC             CDC



10.11. Flight and Ground Support Meals                                                         A               B                -
TR: AMCI 24-101 V14
11 PREPARE FOODS
TR: AFI 34-239; USDA Food Code; Air Force
Recipe System; Manufacturer’s Directions;
AF 14-Day Worldwide Menu Cycle
11.1. Prepare Meats                                                                           2b                -               -
11.2. Prepare Seafood                                                                         2b                -               -
11.3. Prepare Poultry                                                                         2b                -               -
11.4. Prepare Eggs                                                                            2b                -               -
11.5. Prepare Fruits                                                                          2b                -               -
11.6. Prepare Vegetables                                                                      2b                -               -
11.7. Prepare Salads                                                                          2b                -               -
11.8. Prepare Sauces                                                                          2b                -               -
11.9. Prepare Gravies                                                                         2b                -               -
11.10. Prepare Soups                                                                          2b                -               -
11.11. Prepare Beverages                                                                      2b                -               -
11.12. Prepare Starches                                                                       2b                -               -
11.13. Prepare Sandwiches                                                                     2b                -               -
11.14. Prepare Quick breads                                                                   2b                -               -
11.15. Prepare Cookies                                                                        2b                -               -
11.16. Prepare Pastry                                                                         2b                -               -
11.17. Prepare Dessert                                                                        2b                -               -
11.18. Prepare Cakes and Frosting                                                             2b                -               -
12 SERVING LINE TECHNIQUES
TR: AFI 34-239; USDA Food Code; Air Force
Recipe System; Preface to the Worldwide Menu;
AF 14-day Worldwide Menu Cycle
12.1. Garnish food                                                                            2b                -               -
12.2. Display/Replenish food on serving line                                                  2b                -               -
12.3. Carve meats                                                                             1a                -               -
12.4. Apply sauces and gravies                                                                2b                -               -
12.5. Select serving utensils                                                                 2b                -               -
12.6. Serve proper portions of food                                                           2b                -               -
13 STOREROOM MANAGEMENT
TR: AFI 34-239; AFMAN 34-240; USDA Food
Code; Corporate Food Service (CFS) Handbook;
www.usafservices.com; Dining Facility & Flight
Kitchen Manager’s Handbooks
13.1. Inspect Receiving of Subsistence                                                         a               b                -
13.2. Storage Principles                                                                       A               B                -
13.3. Apply Storage Procedures                                                                2b                -               -
13.4. Inventory, Transfer, Sales & Adjustment, and                                              -              A               B
Subsistence Requirements
13.5 Food and Water Security                                                                    -              A               B
13.6. Linking and Nesting                                                                       -              A               B



                                                               32
3M0X1 STS Worksheet                                   2. Certification For OJT              3. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note).
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A       B        C          D            A               B               C
                                                                                           3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
                                                      Trng    Trng   Trainee    Trainer         (1)             (1)             (1)
                                                      Start   Done   Initials   Initials     Course            CDC             CDC



14 SANITATION AND PERSONAL HYGIENE
TR: AFI 34-239, 48-116, and 48-117; AFMAN
34-240; USDA Food Code; Dining Facility & Flight
Kitchen Manager’s Handbooks; ServSafe
14.1 Personal Hygiene and Sanitizing
14.1.1. Maintain personal hygiene                                                              2b                -               -
14.1.2. Sanitize facilities                                                                    2b                -               -
14.1.3. Sanitize equipment                                                                     2b                -               -
14.2. Communicable diseases                                                                     A               B                -
14.3. Perform disease control measures                                                         2b                -               -
14.4. Prevention of insect and rodent infestation                                               B                -               -
14.5. Machine and manual dish washing                                                          2b                -               -
procedures
14.6. Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point                                                A               B                -
(HACCP) Guidelines
TR: AFI 48-116, USDA Food Code; AF Recipe
System
14.7. Apply Hazard Analysis and Critical Control                                                 -               -               -
Point (HACCP) Guidelines
TR: AFI 48-116, USDA Food Code; AF Recipe
System; ServSafe
15 FOOD SERVICE AUTOMATION
TR: AFI 34-239; AFMAN 34-240; Air Force
Recipe System; Corporate Food Service (CFS)
Handbook; Dining Facility & Flight Kitchen
Manager’s Handbooks; www.usafservices.com
15.1 Food Service Automated System                                                              A
15.2 Operate Air Force Recipe System                                                             -               -               -
16 FOOD SERVICE OPERATIONS
TR: AFI 34-239, 34-262; AFMAN 34-240;
AMCI 24-101 V14; Air Force Recipe System; The
Art and Science of Culinary Preparation (textbook);
USDA Food Code, Production Manager Checklist;
www.usafservices.com; Dining Facility & Flight
Kitchen Manager’s Handbooks; Preface to the
Worldwide Menu Cycle; 14-Day Worldwide Menu
Cycle
16.1 Authorized Customers and Charges
16.1.1. Daily Operations                                                                        A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-239, 34-262; AFMAN 34-240;
Production Manager Checklist; Dining Facility &
Flight Kitchen Manager’s Handbooks; Preface to
the Worldwide Menu; 14-Day Worldwide Menu
Cycle
16.1.2. Emergency Situations                                                                    A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-239; AFMAN 34-240
16.1.3. Surcharges                                                                               -              A               B
TR: AFMAN 34-240; Dining Facility & Flight
Kitchen Manager's Handbooks
16.2. Shiftleader principles and management                                                      -              B               B
TR: AFMAN 34-240; Dining Facility & Flight
Kitchen Manager's Handbooks
16.2.1 Perform shiftleader duties                                                                -             2b                -
16.3 Menu Planning Standards
TR: Dining Facility & Flight Kitchen Manager’s
Handbooks; Preface to the Worldwide Menu

                                                                33
3M0X1 STS Worksheet                               2. Certification For OJT              3. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note).
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A       B        C          D            A               B               C
                                                                                       3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
                                                  Trng    Trng   Trainee    Trainer         (1)             (1)             (1)
                                                  Start   Done   Initials   Initials     Course            CDC             CDC



16.3.1. Minimum standards                                                                   A               B                -
16.3.2. Breakfast                                                                           A               B                -
16.3.3. Lunch                                                                               A               B                -
16.3.4. Dinner/Supper                                                                       A               B                -
16.3.5. Midnight                                                                            A               B                -
16.3.6. Brunch                                                                              A               B                -
16.3.7. Standard Menu                                                                       A               B                -
16.3.8. Air Force Recipe System                                                             A               B                -
16.3.9. Utilize Production Log                                                              a               b                -
16.4. Flight Feeding Operations
TR: AFMAN 34-240; AMCI 24-101 V14; Preface to
the Worldwide Menu; Flight Kitchen Manager’s
Handbook
16.4.1. Large Meal                                                                          A               B                -
16.4.2. Small Meal                                                                          A               B                -
16.5. Complete Food Service Evaluation (AF Form                                             a               b               b
1038)
16.6. Planning Special Events (catering)                                                     -              B                -
TR: AFI 34-272, www.usafservices.com
17 FOOD SERVICE ACCOUNTING
TR: AFI 34-239; AFMAN 34-240, Food Service
Accountant’s Guide; Air Force Recipe System;
Dining Facility & Flight Kitchen Manager’s
Handbook; www.usafservices.com; CFS Handbook
17.1. Food service automated reports                                                         -              B                -
17.2. Manual Forms and Reports                                                               -              B                -
17.3. Verify and Validate Prime Vendor receipts                                              -              B                -
17.4. Transfers                                                                              -              B                -
18 PRIME VENDOR PROGRAM
TR: AFI 34-239, 63-124; AFMAN 34-240; Dining
Facility & Flight Kitchen Manager's Handbooks;
www.usafservices.com; www.dla.mil;
www.stores.dla.mil/stores_web; Preface to the
Worldwide Menu
18.1 Service Levels
18.1.1. Account Representative                                                               -              B                -
18.1.2. Fill Rates and Availability                                                          -              B                -
18.1.3. Product Specifications                                                               -              B                -
18.1.4. Delivery Times/Emergency Orders                                                      -              B                -
18.1.5. Substitution Rules/Coordination                                                      -              B                -
18.1.6. Broken Cases                                                                         -              B                -
18.2. Catalog Procedures
TR: www.usafservices.com; www.dla.mil
18.2.1. Authorized Items                                                                     -              B                -
18.2.2. Adding/Deleting Items                                                                -              A               B




                                                            34
3M0X1 STS Worksheet                                   2. Certification For OJT              3. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note).
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A       B        C          D            A               B               C
                                                                                           3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
                                                      Trng    Trng   Trainee    Trainer         (1)             (1)             (1)
                                                      Start   Done   Initials   Initials     Course            CDC             CDC



18.3 STORES Web
TR: www.usafservices.com; www.dla.mil
www.stores.dla.mil/stores_web; CFS Handbook;
Dining Facility & Flight Kitchen Manager's
Handbooks
18.3.1. Ordering                                                                                 -              A               B
18.4. Reconciliation
18.4.1. Receipt Verification                                                                     -              A               B
18.4.2. Adjustments                                                                              -              A               B
19 CONTINGENCY FEEDING
TR: AFPD 10-2,34-2; AFI 10-214, 10-246,
10-403, 34-239, 48-116; AFMAN 23-110,
34-240; TM 09211A-14&P/1; TO 35E4-169-21-1,
35E4-169-31, 50 D 1-3-1, 35E5-6-1, 35C-3-512-1,
35E4-235.1, and 35E4169-21; WMP 1 SVS
Supplement; TTP 3-34.1; Food Service
Accountant’s Guide; www.usafservices.com
19.1 Set-up, Operate and Tear Down Contingency
Feeding Platform
19.1.1. Single Pallet Expeditionary Kitchen (SPEK)                                             1a               b                -
TR: TO 35E5-6-1, 35E4-235-1, 35E4-236-1,
35C2-3-512-1; TTP 3-34.1
19.1.2. Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources                                                 2b               b                -
(BEAR) 550 Kitchen
TR: TO 35E5-6-1, 35E4-169-31; TTP 3-34.1
19.1.3. Containerized Deployment Kitchen (CDK)                                                  a                -               -
TR: TO 35E4-169-21-1, 35E4-169-21; TTP 3-34.1
19.1.4. Contingency feeding planning factors/                                                    -              A               B
concepts
TR: TTP 3-34.1; AFMAN 34-240; WMP 1 Services
Supplement
19.1.5. Contingency accounting and documentation                                                 -              A               B
TR: AFMAN 34-240; Food Service Accountant’s
Guide; WMP 1 Services Supplement;
www.usafservices.com
19.2. Operational Rations
19.2.1. Procedures for ordering operational rations                                              -              B                -
TR: AFI 34-239; AFMAN 34-240; TTP 3-34.1; Food
Service Accountant’s Guide; WMP 1 Services
Supplement; www.usafservices.com
19.2.2. Prepare and serve standard Unitized Group                                              2b                -               -
Rations (UGRs)
TR: TTP 3-34.1
19.2.3. Meals Ready to Eat (MRE)                                                                A                -               -
TR: TTP 3-34.1
19.3. Field Food and Security
19.3.1. Food and water security                                                                 A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-239; AFMAN 34-240; WMP 1 Services
Supplement; TTP 3-34.1
19.4. Manually adjust recipe yields                                                            2b               b                -
TR: AFMAN 34-240




                                                                35
3M0X1 STS Worksheet                               2. Certification For OJT              3. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note).
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A       B        C          D            A               B               C
                                                                                       3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
                                                  Trng    Trng   Trainee    Trainer         (1)             (1)             (1)
                                                  Start   Done   Initials   Initials     Course            CDC             CDC



20 LODGING OPERATIONS
TR: DODI 4165.63.M; AFI 23-111, 34-201, 34-202,
34-209, 34-219, 34-246, and 63-124; AFMAN 23-
110, 34-310, 34-212, 34-214, and 36-203; AFPD
34-3, 36-502, Joint Federal Travel Regulation
(JFTR); DoD Pay Regulation, V7A;
www.usafservices.com; Lodging Accreditation
Checklist
20.1 Lodging Standards
20.1.1 Temporary Lodging Entitlement (TLE)                                                   -              B                -
TR: JFTR
20.1.2 Temporary Lodging Allowance (TLA)                                                     -              B                -
TR: JFTR
20.1.3 Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH)                                                     -              B                -
TR: DoD Pay Regulation, V7A
20.1.4 Authorized Guests                                                                    A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-246 Table 2.1; AFI 34-266 Table 2.1
20.2 Commercial Lodging                                                                      -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-246
20.3 Transient Quarters                                                                     A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-246
20.4 Aircrew Support/PRIME Knight Operations                                                 -              B                -
TR: AFI 34-246
20.5 Non-Availability Concepts                                                               -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-246; AFI 34-266
20.6 Front Desk Operations
20.6.1 Lodging Cashier Functions                                                            A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-202; AFMAN 34-212

20.6.2 Reservation Process                                                                  A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-246
20.6.3 Perform Reservation Processes                                                         -              a               b
TR: AFI 34-246
20.6.4 Refund Procedures                                                                     -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-202, 34-209; AFMAN 34-214
20.6.5 Shift Change Procedures                                                               -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-202; AFMAN 34-212
20.6.6 Deposits Procedures                                                                   -              A                -
TR: AFI 34-209; AFMAN 34-212
20.6.7 Safeguard Valuables, Lost & Found                                                     -              A               B
Program
TR: AFI 34-246; AFMAN 34-212
20.7 Perform Guest Check-in and Check-out                                                    -              a               b
Procedures
TR: AFI 34-246
20.8 Property Management System Overview                                                     -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-201, 34-202, 34-209; AFMAN 34-212,
34-214; www.usafservices.com
20.9 Daily Reports
TR: AFI 34-246
20.9.1 Perform Front Desk Back-up                                                            -              a               b
20.10 Contract Lodging Authorization Sheet                                                   -              A               B
20.11 Housekeeping Standards                                                                 -              A               B
20.12 AF Accreditation Checklist                                                             -              A               B

                                                            36
3M0X1 STS Worksheet                                 2. Certification For OJT              3. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                         Training/Information Provided (See Note).
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         A       B        C          D            A               B               C
                                                                                         3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
                                                    Trng    Trng   Trainee    Trainer         (1)             (1)             (1)
                                                    Start   Done   Initials   Initials     Course            CDC             CDC



20.13 Lodging Facility Inspections                                                             -               -              B
TR: AF Accreditation Checklist
20.14 Perform Lodging Facility Inspections                                                     -               -              b
21 LODGING FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
TR: AFPD 34-2; AFI 32-1022, 34-205, 34-209, 34-
246, 65-106; AFMAN 34-214;
www.usafservices.com
21.1 Financial Statements                                                                      -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-246, 34-209
21.2 Income and Expense Budget                                                                 -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-209
21.3 Accounts Payable Process                                                                  -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-209
21.4 Lodging Rate Package Process                                                              -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-246
21.5 Lodging Renovation Package Process                                                        -               -              B
TR: AFI 34-246, 34-205, 32-1022
21.6 Prepare Lodging Renovation Package                                                        -               -              b
TR: AFI 34-246, 34-205, 34-209, 65-106, 32-1022;
Air Force Lodging Fund (ALF); Project Preparation
Package (PPP)
22 SUNDRY SALES AND STOCK LEVEL
MANAGEMENT
TR: AFI 34-209, 34-246, and 65-106; AFPD 34-2;
AFMAN 34-214; Program Training Aid NA-42;
www.usafservices.com
22.1 Sundry Sales Program
22.1.1 Stock Level Management Procedures                                                      A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-209
22.1.2 Inventory Resale Merchandise Procedures                                                A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-209
22.1.3 Item Selection Principles                                                               -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-246
22.1.4 Pricing Strategy Principles                                                             -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-209
23 CONTINGENCY LODGING
TR: AFI 10-214, 34-246 and 64-301; AFMAN 64-
302; AFPAM 10-100; Prime RIBS Manager’s
Guide; www.usafservices.com; TO 35E5-6-11; TTP
3-34.1; AFPD 34-9; WMP 1 Services Supplement

23.1 Contingency Lodging CONOPS                                                                -              A               B
TR: AFI 10-214; TTP 3-34.1
23.2 Field Lodging Property Management                                                         -              A               B
System
TR: TTP 3-34.1
23.3 Contingency Lodging Assignments/Locator                                                  a               b                -
Services
TR: TTP 3-34.1; AFI 10-214; AFI 34-246; AFPAM
10-29
23.4 Contingency Laundry
23.4.1 Self Help Laundry                                                                      A               B                -
TR: TTP 3-34.1
23.4.2 Contract Laundry                                                                       A               B                -
TR: TTP 3-34.1; AFI 63-124



                                                              37
3M0X1 STS Worksheet                                  2. Certification For OJT              3. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note).
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A       B        C          D            A               B               C
                                                                                          3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
                                                     Trng    Trng   Trainee    Trainer         (1)             (1)             (1)
                                                     Start   Done   Initials   Initials     Course            CDC             CDC



24 AIR FORCE FITNESS AND SPORTS
PROGRAMS
TR: AFI 10-248, 34-201, 34-262, 34-266, 40-101,
and 63-124; AFMAN 23-110, 23-111; TTP 3-34.1;
Health Fitness Facility Standards and Guidelines
(textbook); Health and Fitness Instructor Handbook
(textbook); www.usafservices.com; Manufacturer’s
Maintenance Guides; Program Trainer Aids F-5;
Activity Manager/Fitness/AF Fitness Center
Operations Checklist
24.1 FITNESS OPERATIONS
MANAGEMENT/PROGRAM
TR: AFI 34-266
24.1.1 Daily Fitness Operations                                                                A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-266
24.1.2. Daily Management Operations                                                             -               -              B
24.1.3 Authorized Customers                                                                    A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-266; AFI 34-262
24.1.4 Preventive Equipment Maintenance                                                        A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-266
24.1.5 Facilities Maintenance and Housekeeping
TR: AFI 34-266
24.1.5.1 Group Exercise Rooms                                                                  A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-266
24.1.5.2 Indoor Sports Areas                                                                   A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-266
24.1.5.3 Saunas/Steam Room/Pool                                                                A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-266; AFOSHSTD 48-14
24.1.5.4 Showers/Locker Rooms                                                                  A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-266
24.1.5.5 Field Maintenance                                                                     A               B                -
TR: TR: AFI 34-266; www.usafservices.com;
Activity Manager/ Fitness/AF Fitness Center
Operations Checklist
24.1.5.6 Fitness Safety Hazards                                                                A               B                -
TR: TR: AFI 34-266
24.1.6 Staff Training Requirements
TR: AFI 34-266
24.1.6.1 Basic Fitness Training                                                                A               B                -
24.1.6.2 Core Management Training                                                              A               B                -
24.1.6.3 Advanced Fitness Training                                                             A               B                -
24.1.6.4 Certified Fitness Specialist Training                                                 A               B                -
24.1.6.5 Execute Emergency Procedures                                                          a               b                -
24.2 FITNESS PROGRAMS
24.2.1 Core/Enhanced/Fitness Improvement
Programs (FIP)
TR: AFI 34-266
24.2.1.1 Group Exercise Class                                                                  A                -               -
24.2.1.2 Perform Equipment Orientations                                                       1a               b                -
24.2.2. Adaptive Fitness and Sports                                                             -              B                -
24.2.3. Personal Fitness Assessments
24.2.3.1 Musculoskeletal System                                                                A               B                -
TR: PTL Class/CIAR MEL Course
24.2.3.2 Major Muscle Groups                                                                   A               B                -
TR: PTL Class/CIAR MEL Course
24.2.4 Fitness Improvement Programs                                                            A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-266

                                                               38
3M0X1 STS Worksheet                              2. Certification For OJT              3. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note).
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A       B        C          D            A               B               C
                                                                                      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
                                                 Trng    Trng   Trainee    Trainer         (1)             (1)             (1)
                                                 Start   Done   Initials   Initials     Course            CDC             CDC



24.2.5 Incentive Programs                                                                  A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-266
24.2.6 Special Events                                                                      A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-266
24.2.7. Perform Special Events                                                              -              a               b
TR: AFI 34-266
24.2.8 Injury Prevention                                                                   A               B                -
TR: PTL Class/CIAR MEL Course
24.2.9 Perform Training Exercises                                                         2b                -               -
TR: PTL Class/CIAR MEL Course
24.3 SPORTS PROGRAMS
TR: AFI 34-266
24.3.1 Sports Programs                                                                     A               B                -
24.3.1.1 Intramural
24.3.1.1.1 Tournaments                                                                     A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-266
24.3.1.1.2 Schedules                                                                       A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-266
24.3.1.1.3 Bylaws                                                                          A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-266
24.3.1.2 Extramural                                                                        A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-266
24.3.1.3 Varsity/MAJCOM/AF Sports                                                          A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-266
24.3.1.4 Fitness and Sports Advisory Council                                               A                -               -
TR: AFI 34-266
24.4 Contingency Fitness and Sports CONOPS                                                 A                -               -
TR: TTP 3-34.1
25 RECREATION, NAF ACCOUNTING AND
CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
TR: AFI 10-214, 34-208, 34-219; AFH 10-247 V6;
AFMAN 34-214; WMP 1 Services Supplement;
TTP 3-34.1
25.1 Overview Recreation Programs
25.1.1. Nonappropriated Fund Accounting                                                     -              B                -
TR: AFI 34-201 and 65-106; AFMAN 34-214
25.1.2. Perform NAF Financial Management                                                    -               -              b
Functions
TR: AFI 34-201 and 65-106; AFMAN 34-214
25.1.3. Perform NAF Resale Operations                                                     1a               b                -
TR: AFI 34-201 and 65-106; AFMAN 34-214;
AFH 10-246 V6; AFH 10-247 V6; TTP 3-34.1
25.1.4 Event Planning
TR: TTP 3-34.1; AFH 10-247 V6; AFI 34-266
25.1.4.1 Plan Cost                                                                        1a               b                -
TR: AFI 34-201
25.1.4.2 Plan Equipment                                                                   1a               b                -
25.1.4.3 Plan Location                                                                    1a               b                -
25.1.4.4 Plan Volunteers                                                                  1a               b                -
25.1.4.5 Plan and Execute Event                                                           1a               b                -
25.1.4.6 Plan Event After Action Report                                                   1a               b                -
25.2 Concepts of Recreational Programming
TR: TTP 3-34.1; AFH 10-247 V6; AFI 34-266
25.2.1 Directed                                                                            A               B                -


                                                           39
3M0X1 STS Worksheet                                2. Certification For OJT              3. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                        Training/Information Provided (See Note).
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        A       B        C          D            A               B               C
                                                                                        3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
                                                   Trng    Trng   Trainee    Trainer         (1)             (1)             (1)
                                                   Start   Done   Initials   Initials     Course            CDC             CDC



25.2.2 Self-Directed                                                                         A               B                -
25.2.3 Entertainment                                                                         A               B                -
25.3 Learning Resource Centers (LRCs)                                                         -              B                -
25.4 Lounge Operations
TR: AFI 34-219
25.4.1 DRAM Shop and Theory of Legal Liability                                                -              A               B
25.4.2 Apply DRAM Shop and Theory of Legal                                                    -               -               -
Liability
25.4.3 Responsibilities for Control and Sale                                                  -              B                -
of Alcoholic Beverages
TR: AFI 34-208
26 CONTINGENCY PLANNING
TR: AFPD 10-2; AFI 10-214 and 10-222 V1 & V2,
10-401, 10-2501, 10-403, 10-404; 25-101, AFH 10-
247 all volumes; Prime RIBS Manager’s Guide;
www.usafservices.com; TTP 3-34.1; TO 35E5-6-
11; WMP 1 Services Supplement
26.1 Base Support Plans                                                                       -              A               B
TR: AFI 10-404
26.2 Services War Reserve Materiel (WRM) Assets                                               -              A               B
TR: TTP 3-34.1; AFI 10-222 V2; WMP 1 Services
Supplement
26.3 Command & Control Operations                                                             -              A               B
TR: AFI 10-2501; AFPD 10-2; TTP 3-34.1
26.4 Operational Plans (OPLANS)                                                               -              A               B
TR: AFI 10-401 and 10-404
26.5 Time Phase Force Deployment Data (TPFDD)                                                 -              A               B
TR: AFI 10-401, 10-403, and 10-404
26.6 Deployment Requirements Manning                                                          -              A               B
Document (DRMD)
TR: AFI 10-403
26.7 War Mobilization Plan Volume1, Services                                                  -              A               B
Supplement
TR: AFI 10-401; WMP 1 Services Supplement
26.8 Force Beddown                                                                            -              A               B
TR: AFI 10-401 and 10-403; TTP 3-34.1
26.9 Erect Contingency Shelters                                                             1a               b                -
TR: TO 35 E56-11
26.10 Develop Force Beddown Plan                                                              -              a               b
TR: AFI 10-222 V1, 10-401, 10-403 and 10-404;
TTP 3-34.1
26.11. Force Modules                                                                          -              A               B
TR: AFI 10-401; TTP 3-34.1
26.12 Unit Type Code (UTC) Concepts                                                           -              A               B
TR: AFI 10-401, 10-403 and 10-214; Prime RIBS
Manager’s Guide
27 READINESS MANAGEMENT
TR: AFPD 10-2; AFI 10-201, 10-214, 10-244, 10-
401, 10-403, and 10-404; AFPAM 10-100; Prime
RIBS Manager’s TAB 8; www.usafservices.com;
WMP 1 Services Supplement; DFARS subpart
237.70; FSS SORTS Guide
27.1 Unit Deployment Manager Responsibility                                                   -              A               B
TR: AFI 10-214, 10-244, 10-401, and 10-403;
Installation Deployment Plan; A1 Posturing
Sequencing Guide

                                                             40
3M0X1 STS Worksheet                                  2. Certification For OJT              3. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note).
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A       B        C          D            A               B               C
                                                                                          3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
                                                     Trng    Trng   Trainee    Trainer         (1)             (1)             (1)
                                                     Start   Done   Initials   Initials     Course            CDC             CDC



27.2 Home Station, Force Support Contingency,                                                  A               B                -
and Ancillary Training Requirements
TR: AFI 10-214 and 10-403
27.3. Determine Readiness Training Requirements                                                 -               -               -
TR: AFI 10-214 and 10-403
27.4 Air Reserve Component (ARC) Augmentation                                                   -              A               B
TR: AFI 10-214
27.5. Individual Mobility Requirements                                                         A               B                -
TR: AFI 10-403, AFPAM 10-100

27.6 Readiness Reporting                                                                        -              A               B
TR: AFI 10-201, 10-214 and 10-244; FSS SORTS
Guide
27.7. Prepare Readiness Reports                                                                 -               -               -
TR: AFI 10-201, 10-214 and 10-244; FSS SORTS
Guide
28 MORTUARY AFFAIRS
TR: AFH 10-247 V4; AFI 34-1101, 34-242; AFPD
34-5; AFPAM 34-259, JP 4-06;
www.usafservices.com
28.1 Mortuary Affairs Administration                                                            -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-242
28.2 Family Liaison Officer (FLO) Program                                                       -              A               B
Concepts
TR: AFI 34-242 and 34-1101
28.3 Survivor Assistance Program (SAP) Concepts                                                 -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-242, 34-1101
28.4 Mortuary Eligibility and Benefits                                                          -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-242
28.5 Case File Management                                                                       -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-242
28.6 Honor Guard Program                                                                        -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-242
28.7 Search and Recovery                                                                       A               B                -
TR: AFI 34-242; AFH 10-247 V4; JP 4-06
28.8 Funding for Funeral Entitlements and Supplies                                              -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-242
28.9 Concepts of Evaluating Contract Mortuary                                                   -              A               B
Service
TR: AFI 34-242; DFARS subpart 237.70
28.10 Options for Transportation of Remains                                                     -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-242; AFPAM 34-259
28.11 WARTIME MORTUARY
TR: AFI 34-242; AFH 10-247 V4; JP 4-06
28.11.1 Wartime Mortuary Operations                                                            A               B                -
28.11.2 Perform Remains Processing                                                             a               b                -
28.11.3 Wartime Search & Recovery                                                              A               B                -
28.12 Fatality Search and Recovery Team                                                        A               B                -
(FSRT)
29 PROTOCOL
TR: AFI 34-1201 and 65-601 V1; AFPAM 34-1202;
United States Code, Title 4, Chapter 1, Title 10,
Title 36, Subtitle 1, Part A, Chapters 1 & 3; DoDD
1005.6, 1005.10, 1005.8 and 5500.7-R, D


                                                               41
3M0X1 STS Worksheet                                 2. Certification For OJT              3. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                         Training/Information Provided (See Note).
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         A       B        C          D            A               B               C
                                                                                         3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
                                                    Trng    Trng   Trainee    Trainer         (1)             (1)             (1)
                                                    Start   Done   Initials   Initials     Course            CDC             CDC



29.1 Air Force Protocol Etiquette and                                                          -              A               B
Responsibilities
TR: AFI 34-1201
29.2 Distinguished Visitors (DV) Security/ OPSEC/                                              -              A               B
COMSEC Procedures
TR: AFI 34-1201
29.3 Flags                                                                                     -              A               B
TR: United States Code, Title 4
29.4 Funding                                                                                   -              A               B
TR: AFPAM 34-1202; AFI 65-601 V1
29.5 Gifts                                                                                     -              A               B
TR: AFPAM 34-1202
29.6 Management Agenda/ Pre-Visit Planning                                                     -              A               B
TR: AFPAM 34-1202
29.7 Transportation                                                                            -              A               B
TR: AFPAM 34-1202
29.8 Determine Titles, and Forms of Address
TR: AFI 34-1201
29.8.1 Precedence                                                                              -              A               B
29.8.2 Seating                                                                                 -              A               B
TR: AFPAM 34-1202
29.9 Customs and Courtesies                                                                    -              A               B
29.10 Forms of Address                                                                         -              A               B
29.11 Administration                                                                           -              A               B
TR: AFPAM 34-1202
29.12 Forms of Dress                                                                                          A               B
29.13 Flight Line
TR: AFI 34-1201
29.13.1 Flightline Guidance/ Pre-Arrival/ Flight                                               -              A               B
Status
29.13.2 Arrival Considerations/ Arrival/Greeting                                               -              A               B
29.13.3 Flightline Ceremony/ Departure/DV Lounge                                               -              A               B
29.14 Functions
TR: AFPAM 34-1202
29.14.1 Conferences                                                                            -              A               B
TR: AFI 34-1201
29.14.2 Military Ceremonies                                                                    -              A               B
29.14.3 Military and Social Functions                                                          -              A               B
29.14.4 Escorts                                                                                -              A               B
29.14.5 Dining-In/Dining-Out                                                                   -              A               B
29.15 Expeditionary Protocol
TR: TTP 3-34.1
29.15.1 Deployment                                                                             -              A               B
29.15.2 Joint Operations                                                                       -              A               B
29.15.3 Coalition Operations                                                                   -              A               B




                                                              42
SECTION B – Course Objective List

3. This area is reserved.

SECTION C -- Support Materials

4. Purpose. The following list of support materials is not all-inclusive; however, it covers the
most frequently referenced areas.

4.1. Services Training Aid (STA). STAs are developed by AFPC/SV and designed to help
training managers and trainers conduct effective, standardized training throughout the 3M0X1
career field. They outline the specific training on-the-job training requirements as an extension
of the STS tasks. They also reference the information necessary to conduct training. STAs
are training tools and the STS is the authorized means of documenting training via the Air
Force Training Record. STAs are not designed to let the trainees train themselves. Before
training begins, the trainer should review applicable portions of each STA to ensure they
coincide with the core area Master Training Plan. The STAs can be found on the Force
Support Knowledge Center (https://fskc.csd.disa.mil) in the Library under Resources.

4.2. Qualification Training (QT) requirements. Qualification training plans are developed at the
local level by the work center supervisor IAW AFI 36-2201. QT tasks are required for the duty
position assigned and identified in the Master Task Listing (MTL) and the trainee’s training
record.

SECTION D -- Training Course Index

5. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty
and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in the career field training programs.


5.1. Air Force in-Residence Courses.

Course Number               Title                             Location             User

LCABP3M031 005X             Services Apprentice Course        Services Academy *3M0X1

*newly assigned to 3M0X1 career field

LCAZP3M051 007X             Fitness Specialist Course         Services Academy *3M0X1

*Personnel assigned to a fitness center. Must complete within 180 days of being assigned per
AFI 34-266. Not necessary if MTT Fitness Specialist Course was previously taken.




                                               43
5.2. Air Force Career Development Academy Courses (Career Development Courses).

Course Number              Title                            Location            User

3M051A                     Services Journeyman              Services Academy 3M0X1
                           (Services General and Food)

3M051B                     Services Journeyman              Services Academy 3M0X1
                           (Lodging, Fitness, Readiness)

3M071A                     Services Craftsman               Services Academy 3M0X1
                           (Services General, Fitness and Food)

3M071B                     Services Craftsman               Services Academy 3M0X1
                           (Lodging and Readiness)

5.3. Exportable Courses.

Course Number              Title                            Location            User

L6AZW3M071 005X            Activity Manager Course          Online              *3M051
L6ANW3M051 007X            Fitness Specialist Course        Online              +3M0X1

* Required prior to award of 7 Skill level
+Must be completed prior to MTT or In-resident course

5.4. Mobile Training Teams.

Course Number              Title                            Location            User

L7AZT3M051 007X            Fitness Specialist Course        Various             *3M0X1

*Personnel assigned to a Fitness Center. Must complete within 180 days of being assigned
per AFI 34-266 para 1.4. Not necessary if in-residence Fitness Specialist Course previously
taken.

L7AZT3M051 006X            Shift Leader Course              Various             *3M0X1

*Personnel assigned as a food service shift leader.




                                              44
5.5. Air University: Ira C. Eaker Center for Professional Development: Air Force Human
Resource Management School (AFHRMS).

Course Number             Title                             Location            User

MFSS-200                  Protocol                          Maxwell AFB         3M0X1
MFSS-255                  Mortuary Technician               Maxwell AFB         3M0X1
MFSS-275                  FSS Contingency                   Maxwell AFB         3M0X1

SECTION E -- MAJCOM Unique Requirements

6. AFSPC/AFGSC Missile Chefs.

6.1. See AFJQS 3M0X1, Service Missile Chef.




                                             45
