DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                CFETP 2T3XX
Headquarters US Air Force                                                   Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                             01 NOVEMBER 2010




                         Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) 2T3XX

                              Vehicle Management Specialties




            CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN (CFETP)




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


                                             1
                                   CFETP
                       VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SPECIALTIES
                                 AFSC 2T3XX

                                     Table of Contents

Part I
Preface                                             ------------------------------------- 3
Abbreviations/Terms Explained                       ------------------------------------- 3
Section A, General Information
Purpose of the CFETP                                ------------------------------------- 9
Use of the CFETP                                    ------------------------------------- 9
Coordination and Approval of the CFETP              ------------------------------------- 10
Section B, Career Progression and Information
Specialty Descriptions                              ------------------------------------- 10
Skill/Career Progression                            ------------------------------------- 17
        Apprentice Level (3)                        ------------------------------------- 18
        Journeyman Level (5)                        ------------------------------------- 18
        Craftsman Level (7)                         ------------------------------------- 18
        Superintendent Level (9)                    ------------------------------------- 18
Training Decisions                                  ------------------------------------- 18
Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)           ------------------------------------- 18
Career Path                                         ------------------------------------- 23
Section C, Skill Level Requirements
Purpose                                             ------------------------------------- 24
Specialty Qualifications                            ------------------------------------- 24
        Apprentice Level (3)                        ------------------------------------- 24
        Journeyman Level (5)                        ------------------------------------- 25
        Craftsman Level (7)                         ------------------------------------- 25
        Superintendent Level (9)                    ------------------------------------- 25
Section D, Resource Constraints                     ------------------------------------- 26
Section E, Transition Training Guide                ------------------------------------- 26
Part II
Section A, Specialty Training Standards (STS)
  2T3X1, 2T3X2A, 2T3X2C and 2T3X0,
  Vehicle Maintenance                               ------------------------------------- 28
  2T3X7, Vehicle Management and Analysis            ------------------------------------- 50
Section B, Course Objective List                    ------------------------------------- 60
Section C, Support Materials                        ------------------------------------- 60
Section D, Training Course Index                    ------------------------------------- 60
Section E, MAJCOM Unique Requirements               ------------------------------------- 61

OPR: 344 TRS/TRRP
Certified By: CMSgt Kenneth Campbell (HQ USAF/A4LE)
Supersedes: CFETP2T3XX, 01 Oct 2009, and CFETP2T3XXC1, 1 Jan 2010
Number of Pages: 61


                                                2
                         VEHICLE MANAGEMENT SPECIALTIES
                                     AFSC 2T3XX CFETP
Part I
Preface
1. The CFETP is a comprehensive education and training document that identifies life-cycle
education/training requirements, training support resources and minimum core task requirements
for this specialty. The CFETP will provide vehicle management personnel a clear career path to
success and will instill rigor in all aspects of career field training. Note: Civilians occupying
associated positions may use Part II to support duty position qualification training. Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) career paths will differ from the
career paths depicted in this document. They may develop career paths that more accurately
describe the life-cycle of reserve and guard personnel.
2. The CFETP consists of two parts; both parts of the plan are used by supervisors to plan,
manage and control training within the career field.
2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan; Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies and career field path; Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training and other);
Section D indicates resource constraints (some examples are funds, manpower, equipment and
facilities); Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.
2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the STSs and includes duties, tasks,
technical references to support training, Air Education and Training Command (AETC)
conducted training, wartime course, core task and correspondence course requirements; Section
B Optional (not used); Section C identifies available support materials (an example is a
Qualification Training Package (QTP) which may be developed to support proficiency training
and they are identified in http://www.e-publishing.af.mil); Section D identifies a training course
index supervisors can use to determine resources available to support training (included here are
both mandatory and optional courses); Section E identifies (Major Commands) MAJCOM’s
unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the
associated qualification needs.
3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in vehicle management
specialties receive effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This
plan will enable us to train today's work force for tomorrow's jobs. At unit-level, supervisors and
trainers will use Part II to identify, plan and conduct training commensurate with the overall
goals of this plan.

ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED
Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS). ADLS is worldwide accessible, web-
enabled Learning Management System (LMS) that provides delivery, tracking and on-demand
reporting of training with no client software required to access the system. ADLS location is at
https://golearn.csd.disa.mil/kc/main/kc_frame.asp?blnWhatsNew=True.

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance

                                                3
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

AEF Reporting Tool (ART). The AEF reporting tool on SIPRNET that provides timely and
accurate readiness

AETC Training Manager (AETC-TM). AETC-TM acts as a link between the customer,
MAJCOMs and the training providers (schoolhouse). Collectively we refer to the training
squadrons, courses, instructors and curriculum developers, as the schoolhouse. The AETC-TM
moderates the long term, visionary training goals of the career field with the real time ability of
the schoolhouse to meet those training goals.

AETC Training Pipeline Manager (AETC-TPM). Co-chairs with the Air Force Career Field
Manager (AFCFM), Utilization and Training Workshops (U&TWs) and AFS planning meetings.
Responsible for the oversight, development and execution of all formal training to include
money, manpower and machines to bring new training on-line. Acts as liaison between AFCFM
and training community.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). An individual who is the single Point of Contact
(POC) responsible for overall management of an AFS. AFCFM responsibilities include policy
development, training, skills management and career progression.

Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD).               This guide establishes the
occupational structure of the Air Force enlisted force. The occupational structure is flexible to
permit enlisted personnel to specialize and develop their skills and abilities while allowing the
Air Force to meet changing mission requirements.                         Located at website
http://ask.afpc.randolph.af.mil/ (At the home page, click on the Enlisted tab, select Career
Management and Classification from the pull-down menus and then hit Search.).

Air Force Specialty (AFS). A group of positions (with the same title and code) that require
common qualifications.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard
(AFJQS/CJQS). A comprehensive task list common to all persons serving in the duty position,
which describe a particular job type or duty position. They are used by supervisors to document
task qualifications. The tasks on AFJQS/CJQS are common to all persons serving in the
described duty position.

Allocation Curves. The relation of hours of training in different training settings to the degree
of proficiency which can be achieved on specified performance requirements.

Bridge Course. A formal or informal course of training which allows the individual to expand
his/her knowledge in another area of expertise.

                                                 4
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A comprehensive core training
document that identifies: Life-cycle education and training requirements, training support
resources and the minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give
personnel a clear career path and instills a sense of industry in career field training.

Career Training Guide (CTG). A document that uses Task Modules (TMs) in lieu of tasks to
define performance and training requirements for a career field.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual's ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official. A person whom the supervisor assigns to determine an individual's
ability to perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
or future duty assignments.

Core Task. Tasks the AFCFM identify as minimum qualification requirements within an
AFSC, regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill level or in
general across the AFSC. Guidance for using core tasks can be found in the applicable CFETP
narrative.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication, derived from initial/advanced skills course
training standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards
provided to achieve a 3- or 7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in
conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2201, Air
Force Training Program.

Duty Position Task. The tasks assigned to an individual for the position currently held. These
include as a minimum all core tasks that correspond to the duty position, and tasks assigned by
the supervisor.

Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA). The primary tool used for
information on education and training courses, such as available courses, prerequisites, reporting
instructions etc.     ETCA is accessed via the World Wide Web (WWW) at address
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Course. Instructional packages that personnel design for use in the field. The
course may include printed, computer-based or other audiovisual materials.


                                                 5
Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video or
other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training (Type 7). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a Field
Training Detachment (FTD) or by a mobile training team.

Go/No Go. The stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge and experience
to perform the tasks without supervision. Meeting the task standard.

Initial Skills Training. Formal school courses that result in an AFSC 3-skill level award for
enlisted or mandatory training for upgrade to qualify for officers.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible process for
planning, developing, implementing and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel
are taught the knowledge, skills and attitudes essential for successful job performance in a cost
efficient way.

MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM). An individual who is the POC responsible for
MAJCOM management of an AFS. MFM responsibilities include coordination with the
AFCFM, policy development, training, skills management and career progression at the
MAJCOM-level.

Mobile Training Team (MTT). Technical training conducted at operational locations by a
resident course instructor using the facilities and equipment at those locations.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, “over-the-shoulder training” that a duty location uses
to train personnel in both upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position
certification) training.

Optimal Training. The ideal combination of training settings resulting in the highest levels of
proficiency on specified performance requirements within the minimum time possible.

Position Qualification Training. Training designed to qualify an Airman in a specific position.

Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training
courses, or OJT, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the
minimum required for upgrade.




                                               6
Program Objective Memorandum (POM). Developed by individual services to set objectives
for their forces, weapon systems and logistical support within the fiscal limits assigned to them
by the Secretary of Defense. Covers a 6-year period.

Qualification Training (QT). Hands-on performance training designed to qualify an Airman in
a specific duty position. This training occurs both during and after the upgrade training to
maintain up-to-date qualifications. It is designed to provide the performance skills required to do
the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit
to qualify or aid qualification in a duty position or program or on a piece of equipment. It may
be printed, computer-based or in other audiovisual media.
Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as funds, facilities, time, manpower and
equipment that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Schoolhouse. The principle AETC location where training is conducted and/or managed.

Skills Training. A formal course which results in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training. The total training process (life cycle) used to qualify Airmen in their
assigned specialty.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes skills and
knowledge that an Airman in a particular AFS needs on the job. It further serves as a contract
between the AETC and the user to show the overall training requirements for an AFSC that the
formal schools teach.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed
quantity or quality.

Subject Matter Expert (SME). Highly motivated and experienced individual who is an
effective communicator and has a thorough understanding of career field issues. The AFCFM
and training personnel call on SMEs for specialty related issues such as attending U&TWs and
for writing Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) for Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS)
testing.

Task Module (TM). A group of tasks performed within an AFS that are performed together and
that require common knowledge, skills and abilities. TMs are identified by an identification
code and a statement.




                                                7
Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard and civilian elements)
of the United States Air Force.

Trainer. A trained and qualified person who teaches personnel to perform specific tasks
through OJT methods. Also, equipment that the trainer uses to teach personnel specified tasks.

Training Business Area (TBA). A Web-Based application providing Air Force War fighters
with global, real-time visibility into the technical qualifications, certifications and training status
of logistics, communications and information professionals Air Force wide. TBA supports base,
wing and work center level training management activities by automating training management
business processes. Information concerning TBA can be found on the TBA Community of
Practice              on                the              Air                Force               Portal:
https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-LG-ES-04

Training Capability. The ability of a unit or base to provide training. Authorities consider the
availability of equipment, qualified trainers, study reference materials and so on in determining a
unit’s training capability.

Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW; however,
TPTs are more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues are greater
than is normal in the U&TW forum.

Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be
included in the training decision process.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, OJT,
field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Training Session. Training conducted by trainers based on technical data for a maintenance
task that existing courses could not support.

Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training which leads to attainment of higher level of
proficiency.

Utilization and Training Pattern. A depiction of training provided to, and the jobs performed
by, personnel throughout their tenure within a career field or AFS. There are two types of
patterns: 1) Current pattern, which is based on the training provided to incumbents and the jobs
to which they have been and are assigned; and 2) Alternate pattern, which considers proposed
changes in manpower, personnel and training policies.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of MAJCOM AFSC functional
managers, SMEs and AETC training personnel that determines career ladder training
requirements.

                                                  8
Wartime Tasks. Those tasks that must be taught when courses are accelerated in a wartime
environment. In response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3-level course
in a streamlined training environment. These tasks are only for those career fields that still need
them applied to their schoolhouse tasks.

Web-Based Training. See ADLS.

Section A, General Information

1. Purpose. The CFETP provides information necessary for AFCFM, MFMs, commanders,
training managers, supervisors and trainers to plan, develop, manage and conduct effective
career field training programs. This plan outlines the training that individuals in these AFSs
should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies
initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced and proficiency training. Initial skills training is
the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining
into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training is conducted by AETC at
one of the technical training centers. UGT identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification
requirements and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7- and
9-skill levels. QT is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an Airman in
a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the UGT process. It
is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to do the job. Advanced
training is formal specialty training used for selected Airmen. Proficiency training is additional
training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses or OJT, provided to
personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The
CFETP has several purposes, some are:
1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct and evaluate a career field training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual's career.
1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.
1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training and the
training delivery method.
1.4. Identifies major resource constraints which impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.
2. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive
and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.
2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, field and
exportable training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of
the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining
resources needed to provide the identified training.
2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by OJT, resident
training, contract training or exportable courses. MAJCOM-developed training to support these
AFSCs must be identified for inclusion in the plan.


                                                 9
2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.
3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. MAJCOM
representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field
training requirements. The AETC training manager for 2T3XX specialties will initiate an annual
review of this document by AETC and MFMs to ensure currency and accuracy. Using the list of
courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

Section B, Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Descriptions. Typically, specialty descriptions provide a summary of the
specialty, insight into duties and responsibilities associated to the specialty, and qualifications for
entry or progression within the specialty. Descriptions for each of the specialties in the vehicle
management career field follow:

4.1. VEHICLE AND VEHICULAR EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE:
AFSC 2T351, Journeyman
AFSC 2T331, Apprentice
AFSC 2T311, Helper
Ref: AFECD
4.1.1. Specialty Summary. Performs vehicle maintenance activities on military and
commercial design general and special purpose, base maintenance, aircraft and equipment
towing vehicles, and vehicular equipment. Activities include inspection, diagnostics, repair,
rebuild of components and assemblies, weld metals and repair vehicle glass. Related DoD
Occupational Subgroup: 161000.
4.1.2. Duties and Responsibilities:
4.1.2.1. Determines the overall mechanical condition of vehicles and equipment, diagnose
component malfunction and initiates repair actions. Systematically analyzes malfunctions by
visual and auditory examination or through the use of test equipment. Repairs, adjusts,
overhauls, or replaces major assemblies or sub assemblies such as power and drive trains,
electrical, air conditioning, active and passive restraint systems, fuel, emission, steering
assemblies, tracks, brake, hydraulic system components and vehicular equipment attachments.
Removes, disassembles and repairs gasoline or diesel engines and components. Diagnoses,
isolates malfunctions and repairs vehicle electrical, emissions, gasoline, diesel and alternative
fuel systems. Removes and installs electrical components to facilitate repairs. Repairs
components by replacing worn or damaged parts with new or reconditioned parts, grinding,
fitting, balancing or arranging for welding or machining. Reassembles, adjusts and tests repaired
units for proper operation. Repair, adjust and replaces locks, latches, remote controls, window
regulators and other associated body components. Designs and manufactures mounted
equipment such as seats, pintle hook mounts and towing connections. Cuts, grinds, bevels and
smoothes the edges of laminated automotive glass and installs. Replaces curved glass with
factory replacements. Cleans, tests and repairs vehicle radiators and associated parts. Tests for
leaks and blockage using tanks and flow testers. Selects the proper equipment for set up and
prepares metal for welding. Welds, cuts, and repairs metals using oxyacetylene, gas-shielded
and arc welding.
                                                  10
4.1.2.2. Aligns bearing loads, gear tooth contact and backlash to manufacturer specifications.
Adjusts valve mechanisms, governors, oil systems, control linkages, clutches, traction units and
other systems unique to this type of equipment. Times injection pumps and accessory shaft gear
trains. Accomplishes tire and battery shop operations in a safe and efficient manner.
4.1.2.3. Performs preventive maintenance and special inspections. Uses technical publications
or automated systems in maintaining vehicles to prescribed manufacturers’ maintenance
schedules and for researching parts. Ensures special inspections and maintenance on vehicles are
performed correctly such as; corrosion control, winterization, storage and shipment. Properly
annotates all maintenance performed on prescribed forms for data collection.
4.1.2.4. Adheres to all established safety policies and standards to include identification, use,
and proper procedures for handling or disposal of hazardous wastes.
4.1.3. Specialty Qualifications:
4.1.3.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: vehicle and equipment theory, principles and
repair relating to internal combustion engines, electrical, mechanical, and hydraulic systems
applying to the repair of vehicles and vehicular equipment; methods of hoisting and handling
heavy mechanisms; using lubricants, tools, and publications; supply procedures and computers;
metal composition and metal working methods; using oxyacetylene, gas shielded, and electric
welding equipment.
4.1.3.2.    Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school or general
education development equivalency is mandatory.
4.1.3.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2T331, completion of the vehicle and equipment
maintenance apprentice course is mandatory.
4.1.3.4. Experience. For award of AFSC 2T351, qualification in and possession of AFSC
2T331 is mandatory. Also, experience is mandatory in functions such as inspecting, repairing or
maintaining vehicles and vehicular equipment.
4.1.3.5. Other.
4.1.3.5.1. The following is mandatory for entry into this specialty:
4.1.3.5.1.1. Normal color vision according to AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
Standards.
4.1.3.5.1.2. See attachment 4 for additional entry requirements.
4.1.3.5.2. The following are mandatory for award and retention in this specialty:
4.1.3.5.2.1. Qualification to operate government vehicles according to AFI 24-301, Vehicle
Operations.
4.1.3.5.2.2. Qualification to operate government vehicles for “Maintenance Purposes Only”
according to AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.

4.2. SPECIAL VEHICLE MAINTENANCE:
AFSC 2T352*, Journeyman
AFSC 2T332*, Apprentice
AFSC 2T312*, Helper
Ref: AFECD
 4.2.1. Specialty Summary. Performs vehicle maintenance activities on military and
commercially designed fire fighting vehicles or Material Handling Equipment (MHE). Activities

                                               11
include inspection, diagnostics, repair and rebuild of components and assemblies and weld
metals. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 195000.
4.2.2. Duties and Responsibilities:
4.2.2.1. Determines the overall mechanical condition of vehicles and equipment, diagnose
component malfunction and initiates repair actions. Systematically analyzes malfunctions by
visual and auditory examination or through the use of test equipment. Repairs, adjusts,
overhauls, or replaces major assemblies or sub assemblies such as power and drive trains,
electrical, air-conditioning, active and passive restraint systems, fuel, emission, steering
assemblies, tracks, brake, and hydraulic system components. Removes, disassembles and repairs
gasoline or diesel engines and components. Diagnoses, isolates malfunctions, and repairs
vehicle electrical, emissions, gasoline, diesel and alternative fuel systems. Removes and installs
electrical components to facilitate repairs. Repairs components by replacing worn or damaged
parts with new or reconditioned parts, grinding, fitting, balancing or arranging for welding or
machining. Reassembles, adjusts and tests repaired units for proper operation. Repairs, adjusts
and replaces locks, latches, remote controls, window regulators and other associated body
components. Designs and manufactures mounted equipment such as seats, pintle hook mounts
and towing connections. Cleans, tests, and repairs vehicle radiators and associated parts. Tests
for leaks and blockage using tanks and flow testers. Selects the proper equipment for set up and
prepares metal for welding. Welds, cuts, and repairs metals using oxyacetylene, gas-shielded,
and arc welding.
4.2.2.2. Calibrates and adjusts pumps, meters, safety unit proportioning devices and limiting
devices to ensure proper operation. Synchronizes remote or manual electrical and hydraulic
controls. Adjusts power boosters, clutches, drive chains and tension devices.
4.2.2.3. Performs preventive maintenance and inspections and special inspections. Uses
technical publications in maintaining vehicles to prescribed manufacturers’ maintenance
schedules. Ensures special inspections and maintenance on vehicles are performed correctly,
such as corrosion control, winterization, storage and shipment. Properly annotates all
maintenance performed on prescribed forms for data collection purposes.
4.2.2.4. Adheres to all established safety policies and standards to include identification, use,
and proper procedures for handling or disposal of hazardous waste.
 4.2.3. Specialty Qualifications:
4.2.3.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: special purpose vehicle theory, principles
and repair relating to internal combustion engines, electrical, mechanical and hydraulic systems
applying to the repair of special purpose vehicles and equipment; methods of hoisting and
handling heavy mechanisms; using lubricants, tools, and publications; supply procedures and
computers; metal composition and metal working methods; using oxyacetylene, gas shielded,
and electric welding equipment.
4.2.3.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school or general
education development equivalency is mandatory.
4.2.3.3. Training: Completion of the following training is mandatory for award of the AFSC
indicated:
4.2.3.3.1. 2T332A. Specialized vehicle maintenance (fire fighting vehicle) apprentice course.
4.2.3.3.2. 2T332C. Specialized vehicle maintenance MHE apprentice course.
4.2.3.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:


                                               12
4.2.3.4.1. AFSC 2T352A/C. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2T332A/C. Also,
experience is mandatory in the functions of inspecting, maintaining or repairing specialized
vehicles.
4.2.3.5. Other.
4.2.3.5.1. The following are mandatory for entry into this specialty:
4.2.3.5.1.1. Normal color vision according to AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards,
is mandatory.
4.2.3.5.1.2. See attachment 4 for additional entry requirements.
4.2.3.5.2. The following are mandatory for award and retention in this specialty:
4.2.3.5.2.1. Qualification to operate government vehicles according to AFI 24-301, Vehicle
Operations.
4.2.3.5.2.2. Qualification to operate government vehicles for “Maintenance Purposes Only”
according to AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.
4.2.4. *Specialty Shredouts

       Suffix                         Portion of AFS to Which Related
       A                              Fire Fighting Vehicles
       C                              463L Material Handling Equipment (MHE)

4.3. VEHICLE MANAGEMENT AND ANALYSIS (VM&A):
AFSC 2T377, Craftsman
AFSC 2T357, Journeyman
AFSC 2T337, Apprentice
AFSC 2T317, Helper
Ref: AFECD
4.3.1. Specialty Summary. Supervises and performs the scheduling and analysis of
maintenance performed on vehicles and equipment. Oversees fleet management and accounts
for vehicle fleet. Uses a computer to manage the vehicle data collection system and develops
local retrievals to obtain specific data. Performs materiel control functions. Files historical data
and maintains vehicle records. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 155800.
4.3.2. Duties and Responsibilities:
4.3.2.1. Supervises and performs On-Line Vehicle Interactive Management System (OLVIMS)
and fleet management functions. Manages vehicle leasing program. Inputs data to the OLVIMS
and Standard Base Supply System (SBSS) computer systems and verifies data accuracy.
Prepares, reviews and corrects OLVIMS system products. Develops base vehicle priority buy
program, vehicle minimum essential levels, vehicle priority recall listing and vehicle rotation
plan. Performs fleet maintenance, operations analysis and vehicle control program. Develops
local retrievals to obtain specific data and analyzes this data for specific trends. Coordinates
with work center supervisors and using organizations to ensure a timely repair of assigned
vehicles. Monitors contract and warranty repairs, status, and funding. Develops and administers
long and short range plans and programs for completion of preventative maintenance and
inspections, special inspections and projects. Programs vehicles for depot maintenance on a
five-year maintenance plan. Controls and administers the delayed maintenance and accident and
                                                13
abuse programs. Operates computers and calculators. Maintains and files vehicle historical data
and records jackets. Analyzes data for deviations from specific performance indicators and helps
to develop corrective actions.
4.3.2.2 Performs vehicle management data reporting/transfer as required. Uses Logistics
Installation and Mission Support Enterprise View – Vehicle View (LIMS EV-VV). Collects data
for mandated reporting requirements such as Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA),
Status of Resources and Training Systems (SORTS), etc.
4.3.2.3. Assembles specific vehicular information by extracting and tabulating maintenance data
in a logical presentation sequence using automated and manual methods. Prepares data for
presentation in tabular, chart, graphic and summary form. Gives written and narrative
summaries to meet management needs.
4.3.2.4. Manages Air Force equipment management system program for vehicle fleet. Develops
alternative sources of support for operational vehicle shortfalls. Manages vehicle custodial
account and vehicle authorization and utilization program, prepares and defends base level
submission for central appropriated funds procurement of motor vehicles and other budgetary
accounts. Reviews and coordinates on statements of work and performance requirements
documents requiring government vehicles. Monitors and coordinates on military construction
projects.
4.3.2.5. Inputs routine and Mission Capable (MICAP) requisitions in SBSS, monitor Due-In
From Maintenance (DIFM) Program and process SBSS inquiries.
4.3.3. Specialty Qualifications:
4.3.3.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: vehicle fleet management and analysis;
maintenance responsibilities; maintenance data collection and reporting procedures; LIMS EV-
VV; and small computer operation.
4.3.3.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
algebra or equivalent mathematics, small computer operations and auto mechanics is desirable.
4.3.3.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:
4.3.3.3.1. 2T337. Completion of a vehicle management and analysis apprentice course.
4.3.3.3.2. 2T357. None.
4.3.3.3.3. 2T377. Completion of Vehicle Management Craftsman course (web-based training).
4.3.3.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of AFSC indicated:
4.3.3.4.1. 2T357. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2T337. Also, experience in
functions such as vehicle fleet management & analysis, quality control, customer service center
or maintenance shop work center, obtaining parts and materials for use in vehicle maintenance,
and management of leased/rental vehicles and DoD FLEET Fuel Card Program.
4.3.3.4.2. 2T377. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2T357. Also, experience
performing or supervising functions such as vehicle fleet management and analysis, quality
control, customer service center or maintenance shop work centers, and in obtaining parts and
materials for use in vehicle maintenance.
4.3.3.5. Other.
4.3.3.5.1. See attachment 4 for additional entry requirements.
4.3.3.5.2. For award and retention of AFSCs 2T3X7, must maintain an Air Force Network
License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network
Professionals.

                                              14
4.4. VEHICLE AND VEHICULAR EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE:
AFSC 2T370, Craftsman
Ref: AFECD
4.4.1. Specialty Summary. Supervises and performs vehicle and vehicular equipment
maintenance activities and functions, including diagnostics, repairs, rebuilding components and
assemblies and fabrication of parts. Ensures compliance with vehicle maintenance policies,
directives and procedures. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 161000.
4.4.2. Duties and Responsibilities:
4.4.2.1. Plans and schedules vehicle and equipment maintenance activities. Plans and controls
work methods, production schedules, operating procedures and performance standards.
Monitors established maintenance priorities, tire and battery shop operations, and determines
mission requirements. Ensures vehicles, equipment, tools, parts, and manpower are available to
support mission requirements. Ensures maintenance and supply documentation is complete and
accurate. Provides input to and reviews the AEF Reporting Tool.
4.4.2.2. Inspects and evaluates vehicles, equipment and body maintenance functions. Diagnoses
malfunctions of major assemblies and subassemblies to determine the extent of repair or
replacement, or recommend disposition of vehicles and equipment. Diagnoses, isolates
malfunctions, and repairs vehicle electrical, emissions, gasoline, diesel, and alternative fuel
systems. Inspects repaired or rebuilt parts and equipment to ensure work conforms to standards.
Inspects equipment for required modification and installation of safety devices. Ensures shop
equipment is inspected and serviced at required intervals and that unserviceable tools and
equipment are removed from service and their condition tagged. Identifies and initiates materiel
deficiency reports at work center level.
4.4.2.3. Performs vehicle, equipment and vehicle body maintenance functions. Solves complex
maintenance problems by interpreting layout drawings, specifications, schematics, diagrams and
operating characteristics of vehicles and components. Uses technical orders, commercial
manuals or automated systems to determine maintenance procedures and research parts.
Troubleshoots, adjusts, repairs, and tests vehicles: alternate fuel, diesel and gasoline engines;
fuel, exhaust and electrical systems; clutches; torque converters; transmissions; transfer cases;
power takeoffs; drive lines; axles; frames; steering, suspension, dispensing, brake, air, and
hydraulic systems; tracks; winches; emission control, heating and air-conditioning systems,
active/passive restraint systems and other mounted or special equipment. Cuts, grinds, repairs
and installs vehicle glass and Plexiglas. Welds vehicle parts and accessories.
4.4.2.4. Practices and ensures compliance with all established safety policies and standards.
Implements hazardous waste management policies and procedures ensuring collection, control
and disposition of hazardous and toxic waste material accumulations.
4.4.3. Specialty Qualifications:
4.4.3.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: vehicle maintenance and management,
maintenance data interpretation, quality assurance, and preparing deficiency reports; Air Force
Occupational Safety and Health Standards; supervision and training programs and procedures;
simple mathematical computations; maintenance of vehicle, special purpose vehicle, and
vehicular equipment major assemblies, sub-assemblies, components and systems; use of welding
equipment and metal working methods; body and cab repair, painting and marking; glass
replacement; towing devices; supply discipline and procedures for obtaining parts, supplies, and
equipment.
4.4.3.2. Education. Not used.
                                                15
4.4.3.3. Training: For award of AFSC 2T370, completion of the Vehicle Management
Craftsman course (web-based training) is mandatory.
4.4.3.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2T351, 2T352A or 2T352C is
mandatory. Also, supervisory experience in functions such as inspecting, repairing, modifying
or troubleshooting vehicular and equipment systems, automotive body repair and surface
refinishing, welding operations and glass work.
4.4.3.5. Other: The following are mandatory as indicated.
4.4.3.5.1. For entry into this specialty:
4.4.3.5.1.1. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
Standards.
4.4.3.5.2. For award and retention in this specialty:
4.4.3.5.2.1. Qualification to operate government vehicles according to AFI 24-301, Vehicle
Operations.
4.4.3.5.2.2. Qualification to operate government vehicles for “Maintenance Purposes Only”
according to AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.

4.5. VEHICLE MANAGEMENT
AFSC 2T390, Superintendent
AFSC 2T300, Chief Enlisted Manager
Ref: AFECD
4.5.1. Specialty Summary. Manages the vehicle fleet. Activities include the management of
vehicle authorization listings, vehicle buy and vehicle control programs and associated
maintenance requirements such as inspection, diagnostics, repair, modification, refinishing and
data collection for the vehicle and equipment fleet. Programs include maintenance and fleet
management analysis, quality assurance, training and material control.              Related DoD
Occupational Subgroup: 170400.
4.5.2. Duties and Responsibilities:
4.5.2.1. Plans, organizes and directs vehicle management activities. Ensures adequate
manpower authorizations, personnel, tools, equipment, spare parts, and work space are available.
Establishes production goals, quality controls, operating instructions, annual budgets and self-
inspection programs. Maintains liaison with users and supply organizations regarding spare
parts requirements. Promotes customer satisfaction. Initiates action for interservice and
intraservice vehicle maintenance support requests from other Department of Defense agencies.
Oversees fleet management and analysis, as well as maintenance activities responsible for
vehicle repair, analysis, training, parts procurement and contingency planning to ensure effective
use of maintenance resources. Coordinates on and assists using organizations with processing
procedures for vehicle authorization changes. Reviews and coordinates on vehicle abuse,
accident and incident cases. Provides input to and reviews the AEF Reporting Tool.
4.5.2.2. Ensures accountability for vehicle fleet, tools, equipment, space, supplies and facilities.
Monitors and validates vehicle authorizations, new vehicle request, annual vehicle buy program,
limited technical inspections, vehicle depot-level repair requirements, vehicle add-on equipment
request, reimbursement and refundable actions, vehicle utilization, vehicle minimum essential
levels, vehicle priority recall list, vehicle and part warranties, manpower changes, requirements,
and facility upgrades. Monitors parts procurement programs to ensure compliance with all
applicable guidance. Monitors related contracts and identifies problems to the contract
                                                   16
administrator. Supervises programs affecting depot level repairs, shipment of vehicles,
maintenance priorities, record keeping, material deficiency reporting, preventative maintenance
and inspections, special inspections, fleet management, registered equipment management and
analysis to ensure regulatory compliance. Oversees the collection, control and disposition of
hazardous and toxic waste material accumulations, vehicle lease program and vehicle control
program. Ensures compliance with developed safety practices, policies and standards. Reviews
and approves vehicle lesson plans for compliance with technical data and safety standards.
Reviews vehicle/equipment modification request for safety and compliance with technical data,
forwards request to approval authority if valid.
4.5.2.3. Periodically inspects maintenance, repair sections, fleet management, analysis and
material control. Determines operational status and solves complex maintenance, fleet
management, supply and personnel problems. Analyzes maintenance reports, past and current
performance, and inspection reports to ensure cost effective operations, timely preventive
maintenance, repairs and rebuilding of vehicular equipment. Identifies unfavorable trends as
they occur. Initiates corrective actions and revises procedures to improve effectiveness and
eliminate deficiencies. Monitors and coordinates on military construction projects affecting
vehicle management areas.
4.5.3. Specialty Qualifications:
4.5.3.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: maintenance and fleet management policies
and procedures; maintenance analysis activities; contract administration and evaluation; supply
and inventory management; publications; technical order and material deficiency reporting
systems; On-Line Vehicle Interactive Management System and Logistics Installation and
Mission Support Enterprise View – Vehicle View; base supply procedures and allowances
standards; training requirements and programs; Air Force manpower standards and their
application; facility requirements; and Air Force Occupational Safety and Health standards.
4.5.3.2. Education. Not used.
4.5.3.3. Training. Not used.
4.5.3.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2T370/77. Also, experience is
mandatory managing functions such as vehicle maintenance and fleet management activities.
4.5.3.5. Other: The following are mandatory for award and retention in this specialty.
4.5.3.5.1. Qualification to operate government motor vehicles according to AFI 24-301,
Vehicle Operations.
4.5.3.5.2. Qualification to operate government motor vehicles and vehicular equipment for
“Maintenance Purposes Only” according to AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.
4.5.3.5.3. For award and retention of AFSCs 2T390, must maintain an Air Force Network
License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network
Professionals.

5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the
apprentice to the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability
to accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training must do their
part to plan, manage and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in
this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable training at appropriate
points in their career. The following narrative and AFSCs 2T3XX Career Development
Flow Charts identify career skill progression.

                                                17
5.1. Apprentice (3-skill level): Upon completion of initial skills training, trainees work with a
trainer to enhance their knowledge and skills. Individuals will use a combination of Career
Development Courses (CDCs), OJT and advanced courses to progress in the career field.
Education toward a CCAF degree should continue. The goal for 5-skill level upgrade training is
24 months but must have a minimum of 12 months of OJT for all 2T3XX AFSCs.
5.2. Journeyman (5-skill level): Once upgraded to the 5-level, journeymen will enter into
continuation training to broaden their experience base. Typical job positions for 5-levels include
positions requiring supervisory skills such as OJT trainer, quality assurance inspector and
materiel control or section supervisor. 5-levels will complete required available advanced
courses, and MAJCOM specific training. Individuals will attend the Airman Leadership School
(ALS) after completing 48 months in the Air Force, or upon selection for promotion to Staff
Sergeant. Individuals will use their CDCs and appropriate reference materials to prepare for
testing under the Weighted Airman’s Promotions System (WAPS). Education toward a CCAF
degree should continue. Note: AFI 23-302 mandates that mechanic technicians in upgrade
training to the 7-skill level rotate through each section of vehicle management in order to gain a
working knowledge. The goal for 7-skill level upgrade training is 18 months but must have a
minimum of 12 months of OJT for all 2T3XX AFSCs.
5.3. Craftsman (7-skill level): Craftsmen can expect to fill various supervisory and
management positions and may be assigned to higher headquarters staff positions and 2T3XX
formal schools. Completion of the Vehicle Management Craftsman course is mandatory before
award of the 7-skill level. Personnel are encouraged to take additional courses to obtain added
knowledge on management of resources and personnel. Continue academic education through
CCAF and higher degree programs. In addition, when promoted to Technical Sergeant,
individuals will attend the Noncommissioned Officer Academy.
5.4. Superintendent (9-skill level): A 9-level is expected to fill leadership, supervisory and
management positions such as vehicle fleet manager or vehicle management superintendent, and
may be assigned to headquarters staff positions. Additional training in the areas of budget,
manpower, resource and personnel management is necessary, and can be provided through
continuing education. The 9-skill level is awarded upon sew-on of Senior Master Sergeant.
Additional higher education and completion of courses outside the career AFSC are also
recommended.
6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the vehicle management career field.
The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where and how to meet the training requirements.
Strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a
disjointed approach to training. The CFETP was revised at the Specialty Training Requirements
Team (STRT) held in September 2009 at Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas.
6.1. Initial Skills Training. The initial skills courses were revised to provide the training
needed to better prepare graduates for the tasks they will be facing in the field.
6.2. Upgrade Training. Personnel progressing towards AFSCs 2T351, 2T352A and 2T352C
are required to complete CDCs 2T351A and 2T351B prior to taking their AFSC specific
volume(s). Completion of CDC 2T370 is required for award of AFSC 2T370. Completion of
CDC 2T357 is required for personnel progressing to AFSC 2T357.
7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon
completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in
Applied Sciences Degree. In addition to its associate’s degree program, CCAF offers the
following:
                                                 18
7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification
training, consisting of the instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF
instructors who possess an associate’s degree or higher may be nominated by their school
commander/commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.
7.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The college uses a competency
based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels:
Apprentice, journeyman, craftsman/supervisor or master craftsman/manager. All are transcribed
on the CCAF transcript.
7.3. Applicability. The Vehicle Management program applies to occupational specialties:
2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C and 2T370.
7.3.1. Degree Requirements. All Airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program.
Prior to completing an associate’s degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following
requirements must be met:
Semester Hours
Technical Education...............................................................................................................            24
Leadership, Management and Military Studies .....................................................................                              6
Physical Education ................................................................................................................            4
General Education ..................................................................................................................          15
Program Elective ....................................................................................................................         15
         Technical Education; Leadership, Management and Military
         Studies; or General Education
Total ....................................................................................................................................... 64
7.3.2. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of
Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from
Technical Core/Technical Elective courses. Requests to substitute subjects/courses must be
approved in advance by the Services Branch. Refer to the CCAF General Catalog for
Application of Courses to the Technical Education area.
7.3.3. Technical Core:
Subjects/Courses                                                                                              Semester
                                                                                                                Hours
Automotive Engine Computer Control Systems                                                                          3
ASE Examination                                                                                                    16
CCAF Internship                                                                                                    16
Gas/Diesel Engine Principles                                                                                        4
Introduction to Business                                                                                            3
Maintenance Scheduling                                                                                              3
Power Train Fundamentals                                                                                            3
Radiator/Fuel Tank Repair                                                                                           3
Specialized Support Vehicles                                                                                       15
Suspension/Brake Systems                                                                                            3
Vehicle Body Repair/Painting                                                                                        6

                                                                     19
Vehicle Electrical/Starting/Charging Systems                             3
Vehicle Fuel/Emissions Systems                                           3
Vehicle Glass, Upholstery, Trim/Hardware                                 6
Vehicle Heating/Air Conditioning                                         3
Vehicle Integrated Management System                                     7
Welding                                                                  8

7.3.4. Technical Electives:
Subjects/Courses                                                     Semester
                                                                      Hours

Alternative Fuel/Electric Powered Vehicle Systems                        3
Computer Science                                                         6
Engine Lubricating/Cooling Systems                                       3
Engine Overhaul                                                          3
Enlisted Professional Military Education                                 6
Environmental Compliance                                                 3
Industrial Management                                                    3
Industrial Safety                                                        3
Quality Assurance                                                        3
Technical Mathematics                                                    3
Technical Writing                                                        3

7.3.5. Leadership, Management and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional
military education and/or civilian management courses.
7.3.6. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.
7.3.7. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with
the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF
General Catalog.
7.3.8. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the
CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.




                                               20
Subjects/Courses                                                                                                               Semester
                                                                                                                                  Hours
Oral Communication                                                                                                                 3
  Speech
Written Communication                                                                                                                 3
  English Composition
Mathematics                                                                                                                           3
  Intermediate algebra or college-level mathematics course is required.
  If an acceptable mathematics course is applied as a Technical or
  Program Elective, a natural science course meeting GER application
  criteria may be applied as a GER.
Social Science                                                                                                                        3
  Anthropology, Archaeology, Economics, Geography, Government,
  History, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology
Humanities                                                                                                                            3
  Fine Arts (History, Criticism, and Appreciation), Foreign
  Language, Literature, Philosophy, Religion

7.3.9. Additional off-duty education is encouraged for all. Certification through organizations
such as the Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) or the American Society of Welders (ASW) is
also encouraged. Individuals desiring to become an AETC instructor should be actively pursuing
an associate’s degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the
Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
7.4. Applicability. The Maintenance Production Management program applies to
occupational specialties: 2T3X7.
7.4.1. Degree Requirements. All Airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program.
Prior to completing an associate’s degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following
requirements must be met:
                                                                                                                                Semester Hours
Technical Education...............................................................................................................            24
Leadership, Management and Military Studies .....................................................................                              6
Physical Education .................................................................................................................           4
General Education ..................................................................................................................          15
Program Elective ....................................................................................................................         15
         Technical Education; Leadership, Management and Military
         Studies; or General Education
Total ....................................................................................................................................... 64

7.4.2. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of
Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from
Technical Core/Technical Elective courses. Requests to substitute subjects/courses must be

                                                                     21
approved in advance by the Services Branch. Refer to the CCAF General Catalog for
Application of Courses to the Technical Education area.
7.4.3. Technical Core:
Subjects/Courses                                           Semester
                                                            Hours

CCAF Internship                                                         16
Human and Resource Management                                            3
Management Information Systems                                          12
Production Management                                                    6
Scheduling and Production Control                                       15
Statistics                                                               3
Systems Management                                                       6
Vehicle Interactive Management Systems                                   9

7.4.4. Technical Electives:
Subjects/Courses                                                   Semester
                                                                   Hours
Computer Science                                                        6
Enlisted Professional Military Education                                6
Environmental Compliance                                                3
Industrial Safety                                                       3
Principles of Accounting                                                3
Quality Assurance                                                       3
Technical Writing                                                       3

7.4.5. Leadership, Management and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional
military education and/or civilian management courses.
7.4.6. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.
7.4.7. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the GER and be in agreement with the definitions of applicable General
Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.
7.4.8. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the
CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.




                                              22
Subjects/Courses                                                                                      Semester
                                                                                                         Hours
Oral Communication                                                                                        3
  Speech
Written Communication                                                                                       3
  English Composition
Mathematics                                                                                                 3
  Intermediate algebra or college-level mathematics course is required.
  If an acceptable mathematics course is applied as a Technical or
  Program Elective, a natural science course meeting GER application
  criteria may be applied as a GER.
Social Science                                                                                             3
  Anthropology, Archaeology, Economics, Geography, Government,
  History, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology
Humanities                                                                                                  3
  Fine Arts (History, Criticism, and Appreciation), Foreign
  Language, Literature, Philosophy, Religion

7.4.9. Additional off-duty education is encouraged for all. Certification through organizations
such as the ASE is also encouraged. Individuals desiring to become an AETC instructor should
be actively pursuing an associate’s degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain
accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
8. Vehicle Management Career Path.
Table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path
                                                                 GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training Requirements             Rank         Average   Earliest High Year Of Tenure
                                                             Sew-On    Sew-On         (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School                      Amn        6 months
(3-Skill Level)
Upgrade To Journeyman                            A1C        16 months
(5-Skill Level)
- Minimum 12 months OJT (9 months for            SrA         3 years       28 months
retrainees), career field goal 24 months max
                                                                                                 10 Years
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when
available
- Core tasks
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                 Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in         - Recommended by the supervisor
service or be a SSgt Selectee                  - Qualified to perform the task being trained
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for    - Attend the Air Force Training Course
SSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only)                 Certifier
                                               -Minimum rank of SSgt with a 5-skill level or civilian equivalent,
                                               capable of evaluating the task being certified and have completed the
                                               AFTC. (Note: Refer to 2T3XX CFETP Part II, paragraph 1.4.1.)



                                                       23
Upgrade To Craftsman                           SSgt         7.5 years    3 years    20 Years
(7-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SSgt
- Minimum 12 months OJT (6 months for
retrainees), career field goal 18 months max
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when
available, core tasks, and complete the
Vehicle Management Craftsman Course 7-
level Advanced Distributed Learning course

Noncommissioned Officer Academy                TSgt         12.5 years   5 years    22 Years
(NCOA)
- Must be a TSgt, MSgt Selectee, or MSgt
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for    MSgt         16 years     8 years    24 Years
MSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only)
Upgrade To Superintendent                      SMSgt        19.2 years   11 years   26 Years
(9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)
- Must be a MSgt, SMSgt, or SMSgt
Selectee - Resident graduation is a
prerequisite for SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty
Only)
 Chief Leadership Course                       CMSgt        21.5 years   14 years   30 Years
- Must be a CMSgt or CMSgt Selectee


Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks
and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for
each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry,
award and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements
are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A and B of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualification:
10.1. Apprentice (3-Level).
10.1.1. Qualifications and Knowledge.
10.1.1.1. AFSCs 2T331, 2T332A and 2T332C. An individual must understand basic system
theory of operation and perform certain organizational level maintenance tasks under close
supervision to perform duties at the 3-skill level. Additionally a 3-level must be able to use
technical data, common hand tools and special test equipment.
10.1.1.2. AFSC 2T337. An individual must understand basic functions of the control board,
have the ability to obtain requested reports and be able to control workflow with minimum
supervision.
10.1.2. Training Sources. The initial skills courses will provide the required knowledge and
qualifications.
10.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training, Airmen are
assigned to the training center for completion of technical training courses.


                                                       24
10.2. Journeyman (5-Level).
10.2.1. Qualification and Knowledge.
10.2.1.1. AFSCs 2T351, 2T352A and 2T352C. In addition to the 3-level qualifications, an
individual must possess the knowledge and skills necessary to maintain equipment and conduct
training classes.
10.2.1.2. AFSC 2T357. In addition to the 3-level qualifications, an individual must possess the
knowledge and skills to perform basic analysis and be able to interpret and present data.
10.2.2. Training Sources. The 5-level CDC provides required career knowledge training.
Qualification training and OJT provides training and qualification on the core tasks identified in
the STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current knowledge base and provides
more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.
10.2.3. Implementation. Training to the 5-level is performed at unit-level using STS
exportable courses and CDCs. Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of applicable CDCs,
completion of all core tasks and minimum 12 months in upgrade training.
10.3. Craftsman (7-Level).
10.3.1. Qualification and Knowledge.
10.3.1.1. AFSC 2T370 (AFSCs: 2T351, 2T352A and 2T352C merge at the 7-skill level). In
addition to the 5-level qualifications, individuals must possess advanced skills and knowledge of
theory, concepts, principles and application of vehicle systems. To be awarded a 7-skill level,
individuals must be able to supervise and train personnel to maintain systems and to see that they
are able to plan, schedule and organize maintenance to ensure effective use of available
resources.
10.3.1.2. AFSC 2T377. In addition to the 5-level qualifications, individuals must possess
advanced skills and knowledge of analysis, data interpretation/presentation and management of
the vehicle fleet. To be awarded a 7-skill level, individuals must be able to supervise and train
personnel in all aspects of vehicle management and analysis.
10.3.2. Training Sources. Training for 7-skill level upgrade will be conducted by qualified
trainers using the STS, unit/MAJCOM specific courses, 7-level CDCs if/when available and the
Vehicle Management Craftsman course. Develop and provide exportable courses to field units
to help standardize OJT and enhance training.
10.3.3. Implementation. Upgrade to the 7-level will require completion of the applicable 7-
level CDC, completion of all core tasks and completion of the Vehicle Management Craftsman
course.
10.4. Superintendent (9-Level), AFSCs 2T370 and 2T377 merge at the 9-skill level.
10.4.1. Qualification and Knowledge. In addition to 7-level qualifications, individuals must
possess advanced skills and knowledge of concepts and principles in management. Personnel at
the 9-skill level are considered to be effective leaders who are able to forecast, budget and
manage funding and other assigned resources.
10.4.2. Training Sources. None.
10.4.3. Implementation. Award the 9-level upon SMSgt sew-on.




                                               25
Section D, Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints which preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions
required, OPR and target completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum,
reviewed and updated annually.

12. 3-Level Training:
12.1. Constraints. None.
Note: CFETP 3-skill level training requirements can be accommodated at this time. However,
all 3-skill level courses at Port Hueneme are operating at 100% student capacity. If additional
training is needed, such as wartime surge training, the schoolhouse will require additional
resources.
12.2. Resources Required. N/A
12.3. Action Required. N/A
12.4. OPR and Target Completion Date. N/A

13. 5-Level Training:
13.1. Constraints. AFSC 2T352A fire fighting vehicle dispensing system training is hindered
by environmental guidance limiting use of Aqueous Film Forming Foam (AFFF).
13.2. Resources Required. N/A
13.3. Action Required. N/A
13.4. OPR and Target Completion Date. 344 TRS/TRRP, target date cannot be established
due to environmental laws.

14. 7-Level Training:
14.1. Constraints. AFSC 2T370 fire fighting vehicle dispensing system training is hindered by
environmental guidance limiting use of AFFF.
14.2. Resources Required. N/A
14.3. Action Required. N/A
14.4. OPR and Target Completion Date. 344 TRS/TRRP, target date cannot be established
due to environmental laws.

Section E, Transition Training Guide

15. AFSCs 2T351, 2T352A and 2T352C merge at the 7-skill level (AFSC 2T370). Prior to
award of AFSC 2T370, all personnel will complete CDCs 2T370 and enter into a work center
rotation plan to gain experience in the merging AFSCs. AFSCs 2T370 and 2T377 merge at the
9-skill level (2T390). No additional upgrade training is required.


                                              26
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL            LOREN M. RENO, Lieutenant General, USAF
                    Deputy Chief of Staff,
                    Logistics, Installations and Mission Support




                                 27
                                  STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

Part II

Section A, Specialty Training Standards

1. VEHICLE AND VEHICULAR EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE APPRENTICE AND
JOURNEYMAN; SPECIAL VEHICLE MAINTENANCE APPRENTICE AND
JOURNEYMAN; AND VEHICLE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN.
1.1. Implementation. This STS for technical training provided by AETC applies to all classes entering
after 4 October 2010 for AFSCs 2T331, 2T332A and 2T332C; CDC customer need date June 2012.
1.2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201 this STS:
1.2.1. Lists the mandatory and general tasks, knowledge and Technical References (TRs) necessary
for Airmen to perform duties at the 3-, 5- and 7-skill level AFSCs 2T3X1/2T3X2A/2T3X2C/2T370
ladders of the Airman Vehicle Maintenance Career Field.
1.2.2. Becomes an AFJQS for OJT when placed in an OJT Record, and used according AFI 36-
2201.
1.2.3. Provides OJT certification columns in Part 2, Section A to record completion of task and
knowledge training requirements.
1.2.4. Shows formal training requirements. The 3- and 7-level course columns show the proficiency to
be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training in skill-level ascension courses.
1.2.5. It is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the WAPS. SKTs are developed at the
USAF Occupational Measurement Squadron by senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in
their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development
team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study
references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2502, Airman
Promotion/Demotion Programs. WAPS is only applicable to active duty personnel.
1.3. Qualitative Requirements. Part 2, Section A contains the proficiency code key used to indicate
the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.
1.4. Documentation. Supervisors, trainers and trainees must ensure all training documentation is
contained within an Airman’s Individual Training Plan (ITP) in TBA IAW AFI 36-2201 and the
current TBA Application User’s Guide.
1.4.1. The 2T3XX AFCFM has not identified any core tasks requiring third-party certification.
However, MAJCOMs may establish policy concerning third-party certification. Note: Required up-
grade training “core task(s)” identified by local unit, as “not available for training” must be
annotated in TBA. The 5- or 7-level skill can then be awarded when all other training and core
tasks are complete.
1.4.2. Converting External Task into TBA (Transcription Procedures). This action allows
supervisors to convert tasks from an external source (AF Form623) into TBA. When this action is
initiated, the tasks that are converted into TBA go into the Airman’s archived task lists. At that point,
the supervisor with authority over the Airman’s record can then select which tasks should be
unarchived and moved to an active status IAW the TBA Application User’s Guide.
1.4.3. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available: The supervisor identifies
CDC training references that the trainee requires for career knowledge and ensures, as a minimum, that
the trainee covers the mandatory items in the AFECD. For two-time CDC course exams failures:
Supervisors identify all STS items corresponding to the areas covered by the CDC. The trainee
completes a study of CDC references, undergoes evaluation by the supervisor and receives ITP task
completion in TBA. Note: Career knowledge must be documented prior to pursuing a CDC waiver.
1.4.4. Decertification and Recertification of ITP Task. When an Airman is found to be unqualified
                                                  28
                                   STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

on an ITP task previously completed for their duty position in TBA, the supervisor will take action to
decertify the task and complete Journal Entry IAW the TBA Application User’s Guide, Decertify IPT
Task instructions.
1.5. Training Standard. Tasks are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. Go means the
individual can perform the task without assistance and meet local demands for accuracy, timeliness and
correct use of procedures IAW AFI 36-2201.
1.6 Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to 344
TRS/TRRP, 1015 Femoyer Street, Lackland AFB TX 78236-5404. Report inadequacies of this STS
through command channels to HQ USAF/A4LE, referencing specific STS paragraphs. A customer
service information line has been installed for supervisors' convenience to identify graduates who may
have been over or under trained on task/knowledge items listed in this training standard. For a quick
response to problems, call the customer service information line, DSN 473-2917, from 0730-1630
CST/CDST.
Notes:
1. Users are responsible for updating training references pending revision of this STS.
2. All tasks trained by AETC in 3-level courses are considered Wartime Tasks.
3. Items in Core/Wartime Tasks column marked with a symbol/character (5, 7, A, C and V) are
mandatory “core” tasks that must be completed before the next skill level can be awarded. Required up-
grade training “core task(s)” identified by local unit, as “not available for training” must be annotated in
TBA. Comments regarding training availability may also be annotated in TBA. The 5- or 7-skill level
can then be awarded when all other training and core tasks are complete.

5 = Required core task for training to AFSCs 2T351, 2T352A and 2T352C
V = Required core task for training to the 2T351 AFSC
A = Required core task for training to the 2T352A AFSC
C = Required core task for training to the 2T352C AFSC
7 = Required core task for training to the 2T370 AFSC (From 2T351, 2T352A and 2T352C)




                                                    29
                                            STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

                                         QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                    Proficiency Code Key
                   Scale
                             Definitions: The Individual
                   Value
                             Can do simple parts of task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task.
                     1
     Task                    (Extremely Limited)
                             Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on the hardest parts. (Partially
Performance          2       Proficient)
    Levels                   Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
                     3
                             Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show other how to do the
                     4       task. (Highly Proficient)
                             Can name parts, tools and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
                     a
    *Task
 Knowledge           b       Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)

    Levels                   Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                     c
                             (operating Principles)
                     d       Can predict, isolate and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                             Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
                     A
  **Subject
                             Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject.
 Knowledge           B       (Principles)
    Levels                   Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
                     C
                             Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
                     D

Explanations:
"*" A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a performance scale value to define a level of
knowledge for a specific task. (Example: b and 1b)
"**" A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related
to any specific task, or for a subject common to several task.
"-" This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course
or CDC.
"X" This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training required but not given due to limitations in
resources.
Note for Core/Wartime Task (Column 2):
Items in Core/Wartime Tasks column marked with a symbol/character (5, 7, A, C and V) are mandatory “core” tasks that must
be completed before the next skill level can be awarded. Required up-grade training “core task(s)” identified by local unit, as
“not available for training” must be annotated in TBA. Comments regarding training availability may also be annotated in TBA.
The 5- or 7-skill level can then be awarded when all other training and core tasks are complete.




                                                              30
                                                      STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge      2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References   Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                           War-
                           time
                           Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                           (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                           Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                      Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                      Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
1. VEHICLE                                                                                           -             -             -                 -
MANAGEMENT
CAREER PATH
TR: AFI 36-2101,
AFECD
2. AF
OCCUPATIONAL
SAFETY AND
HEALTH (AFOSH)
PROGRAM
TR: AFIs 32-2001, 32-
7042, 32-7080, 90-803,
91-202, 91-302;
Applicable AFOSH
STDS; TOs 34-1-3, 36-
1-191
2.1. Personnel And
Shop Safety
2.1.1 Perform Personnel                                                                              2b             -             -                   -
and Shop Safety

2.2. AFOSH Standards                                                                                  -            B              -                   B
For AFSC 2T3XX
2.3. Initial Federal                                                                                 A              -             -                   -
Hazard Communication
Training Program
2.4. Environmental
Compliance
2.4.1. Hazardous Waste       5                                                                       A             B              -                   B
Management
2.4.2. Pollution             5                                                                       A             B              -                   B
Prevention
2.4.3. Waste                 5                                                                       A             B              -                   B
Minimization
2.4.4. Hazardous             5                                                                       A             B              -                   B
Material Management
3. SUPERVISION AND
TRAINING
TR: AFIs 23-302, 36-
2101, 36-2201, 36-2301,
36-2406; AFMAN 36-
2236
3.1. Supervision
3.1.1. Coordinate Work       7                                                                        -             -             -                   b
With Other Work Centers
3.1.2. Assign                7                                                                        -             -             -                   b
Maintenance Work IAW
Priorities
3.1.3. Supervise
Personnel Performing:
3.1.3.1. Maintenance         7                                                                        -             -             -                   -

3.1.3.2. Inspection          7                                                                        -             -             -                   -

3.1.4. Justify
3.1.4.1. Personnel                                                                                    -            A              -                   B

3.1.4.2. Equipment                                                                                    -            A              -                   B




                                                                         31
                                                        STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge        2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References     Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                             War-
                             time
                             Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                             (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                             Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                        Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                        Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
3.1.5. Recommend
Policy Changes On
Utilization Of:
TR: AF Manpower
Standards 42B1,
ASC457, ASC012,
ASC403
3.1.5.1. Personnel                                                                                      -             -             -                   B
3.1.5.2. Equipment                                                                                      -             -             -                   B
3.2. Training
3.2.1. Evaluate Personnel      7                                                                        -             -            2b                   -
Training Needs
3.2.2. Plan And
Supervise OJT
3.2.2.1. Prepare Job                                                                                    -             -             -                   -
Qualification Standard
3.2.2.2. Motivate                                                                                       -             -             -                   -
Trainers And Trainees
3.2.2.3. Counsel Trainers                                                                               -             -             -                   -
And Trainees On Training
Program
3.2.2.4. Monitor
Effectiveness Of:
3.2.2.4.1. Career                                                                                       -             -             -                   -
Knowledge Upgrade
Training
3.2.2.4.2. Job Proficiency                                                                              -             -             -                   -
Upgrade Training
3.2.2.4.3. Qualification                                                                                -             -             -                   -
Training
3.2.3. Maintain Training       7                                                                        -             -             -                   -
Records
3.2.4. Evaluate                                                                                         -             -             -                   -
Effectiveness Of Training
Programs
3.2.5. Recommend                                                                                        -             -             -                   -
Personnel For Training
TR: ETCA
4. VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE
PUBLICATIONS
TR: AFI 33-322, AFI 33-
360; TOs 00-5-1, 00-5-
15, 00-5-18

4.1. Standard                  5                                                                        -            B              -                   -
Publications
4.2. Technical Orders
And Publications
4.2.1. Locate Specific         5                                                                       1a            b              -                   -
Information
4.2.2. Maintain Files                                                                                                                                   -
5. VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE
(MATERIEL
CONTROL)




                                                                           32
                                                        STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge        2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References     Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                             War-
                             time
                             Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                             (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                             Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                        Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                        Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
5.1. Property                  5                                                                       -             A             -                 B
Responsibility And
Accountability
TR: AFI 23-302,
AFMAN 23-110, 23-220
5.2. Cross Reference Part      5                                                                        -            b              -                   -
Numbers And Stock
Numbers
TR: AFI 23-302; Supply
FEDLOG Program
6. VEHICLE
MANAGEMENT
TR: AFIs 24-301, 23-
302, 24-303; TOs 36-1-
191
6.1. Functions Of                                                                                       -            A              -                   -
Logistics Readiness
Squadrons
6.2. Responsibilities Of                                                                                -            A              -                   -
Vehicle Management
Staff
6.3. Functions Of Vehicle                                                                               -            A              -                   -
Management Activities
6.4. Develop Budget            7                                                                        -             -            2b                   -
Inputs With Justification
6.5. Contingency               7                                                                        -             -             B                   B
Operations And Wartime
Requirements
6.6. Interpret Vehicle
Management Products
6.6.1. Vehicle                                                                                          -             -            2b                   -
Authorization Lists
(VAL)
6.6.2. Base Master                                                                                      -             -            2b                   -
Vehicle
Authorized/Assigned
Report
6.6.3. Vehicle Custodian                                                                                -             -            2b                   -
Authorization/Custody
Receipt Listing
(CA/CRL)
6.7. Analyze Vehicle
Management Products
6.7.1. Vehicle Utilization                                                                              -             -            2b                   -
Report

6.7.2. Vehicle Rotation                                                                                 -             -            2b                   -
Report

6.7.3. Refundable/                                                                                      -             -            2b                   -
Reimbursement List

6.8. Fundamentals of                                                                                    -             -             B                   -
DoD Fleet Fuel Card
Program

6.9. WRM Vehicle
Program
TR: AFI 25-101, TO 36-
1-191
6.9.1. Fundamentals                                                                                     -            B              B                   -
6.9.2. Implement                                                                                        -            -              -                   -

                                                                           33
                                                       STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge       2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References    Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                            War-
                            time
                            Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                            (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                            Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                       Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                       Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
7. MAINTENANCE
DATA COLLECTION
TR: AFI 23-302,
AFCSM 24-1
7.1. Interpret                7                                                                        -            b             2b                   -
Maintenance Data
Collection Reports
7.2. Fill Out Maintenance     5                                                                        -            b              -                   -
Data Collection Forms
8. SPECIAL
MAINTENANCE
POLICIES AND
PROCEDURES
TR: AFI 23-302; TOs
36-1-191, 36A-1-6
8.1. Winterize Vehicles
TR: TO 36-1-191
8.1.1. Type A                                                                                          -            b              -                   -
8.1.2. Type B                                                                                          -            b              -                   -
8.1.3. Type C                                                                                          -            b              -                   -
8.2. Corrosion Control                                                                                 -            B              -                   -
Procedures
TR: TOs 36-1-191, 36-1-
131
8.3. Prepare Vehicles For     5                                                                        -            b              -                   -
Storage
TR: TO 36-1-191
8.4. Prepare Vehicles For     5                                                                        -            b              -                   -
Shipment
TR: TO 36-1-191
8.5. Prepare Deficiency       7                                                                        -            b             2b                   -
Reports TR: TOs 00-
35D-54, 36-1-191
8.6. Warranty Policies                                                                                 -            B              -                   -
TR: TO 36-1-191
8.7. TCTOs/Service
Bulletins
TR: AFIs 23-302; TOs
0-1-01, 00-5-15
8.7.1. Fundamentals                                                                                    -            B              -                   -
8.7.2. Monitor                                                                                         -            b             2b                   -
8.8. Depot Maintenance                                                                                 -            -              -                   B
Plan
9. TOOLS AND TEST
EQUIPMENT
TR: TOs 32, 33, 34, 36
Series
9.1. Identify                                                                                         A              -             -                   -
9.2. Inspect                                                                                          A              -             -                   -
9.3. Use                                                                                              2b             -             -                   -
10. PERFORM
MAINTENANCE
INSPECTIONS
TR: TOs 36-1-191; 33,
35, 36, 38 Series
10.1.   Operator              5                                                                        -            b              -                   -
10.2.   Scheduled             5                                                                        -            b              -                   -
10.3.   Annual                5                                                                        -            b              -                   -
10.4.   Special               5                                                                        -            b              -                   -
10.5.   Technical (LTI)       5                                                                        -            b              -                   -
10.6.   Quality Assurance     7                                                                        -            -              -                   b




                                                                          34
                                                       STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge       2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References    Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                            War-
                            time
                            Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                            (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                            Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                       Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                       Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
11. GASOLINE
ENGINES
TR: TOs 33, 35, 36, 38
Series
11.1. Fundamentals                                                                                    B             B              -                   -
11.2. Disassemble                                                                                     2b            b              -                   -
11.3. Assemble                                                                                        2b            b              -                   -
11.4. Remove And
Install
11.4.1. Engines                                                                                        -            b              -                   -
11.4.2. Expansion Plugs                                                                                -            -              -                   -
11.4.3. Motor Mounts                                                                                   -            -              -                   -
11.4.4. Oil Coolers                                                                                    -            b              -                   -
11.5. Inspect Engine          5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
Parts
11.6. Test Cylinder           5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
Compression
11.7. Fundamentals Of
Engine Systems
11.7.1. Cooling                                                                                       B             B              -                   -
11.7.2. Lubrication                                                                                   B             B              -                   -
11.7.3. Valve Train                                                                                   B             B              -                   -
11.7.4. Fuel/Air                                                                                      B             B              -                   -
11.7.5. Emission Control                                                                              B             B              -                   -
11.7.6. Computer Control                                                                              B             B              -                   -
Systems
11.8. Isolate
Malfunctions
11.8.1. Cooling               5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
Malfunctions
11.8.2. Lubrication           5                                                                        -            b              -                   -
System
11.8.3. Valve Train           5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
11.8.4. Fuel/Air System       5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
11.8.5. Emission Control      5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
11.8.6. Computer Control                                                                              2b             -             -                   -
Systems
11.9. Adjust
11.9.1. Valve Clearance                                                                                -            -              -                   -
11.9.2. Ignition Timing                                                                               2b            b              -                   -
12. DIESEL ENGINES
TR: TOs 33, 35, 36, 38
Series
12.1. Fundamentals                                                                                    B             B              -                   -
12.2. Disassemble                                                                                     -             b              -                   -
12.3. Assemble                                                                                        -             b              -                   -
12.4. Fundamentals Of
Engine Systems
12.4.1. Cooling                                                                                       B             B              -                   -
12.4.2. Lubrication                                                                                   B             B              -                   -
12.4.3. Valve Train                                                                                   B             B              -                   -
12.4.4. Fuel/Air                                                                                      B             B              -                   -
12.4.5. Emission Control                                                                              B             B              -                   -
12.4.6. Computer Control                                                                              B             B              -                   -
Systems
12.5. Remove And Install                                                                              2b            b              -                   -
Fuel System Components
12.6. Inspect Fuel System     5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
12.7. Bleed Or Prime          5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
Fuel System



                                                                          35
                                                        STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge        2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References     Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                             War-
                             time
                             Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                             (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                             Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                        Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                        Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
12.8. Isolate
Malfunctions
12.8.1. Cooling System         5                                                                        -             -             -                   -
12.8.2. Lubrication            5                                                                        -             -             -                   -
System
12.8.3. Valve Train            5                                                                        -            -              -                   -
12.8.4. Fuel/Air System        5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
12.8.5. Emission Control       5                                                                       2b            -              -                   -
System
12.8.6. Computer                                                                                       2b             -             -                   -
Control System
12.9. Test Cylinder            5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
Compression
12.10. Adjust
12.10.1. Governors             5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
12.10.2. Valve Clearance       5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
12.10.3. Fuel System           5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
Timing
13. ALTERNATIVE
FUEL VEHICLES
TR: TOs 36 Series
13.1. Compressed                                                                                        -            B              -                   B
Natural Gas
Fundamentals
13.2. Electric Drive                                                                                    -            B              -                   B
Fundamentals
13.3. Fuel Cell                                                                                         -            B              -                   B
Fundamentals
13.4. Hybrid Vehicles                                                                                  A             B              -                   B
14. ELECTRICAL
SYSTEMS
TR: TOs: 33, 35, 36
Series
14.1. Fundamentals
14.1.1. Electricity                                                                                    B             B              -                   -
14.1.2. Batteries                                                                                      B             B              -                   -
14.1.3. Starting Systems                                                                               B             B              -                   -
14.1.4. Ignition Systems                                                                               B             B              -                   -
14.1.5. Charging Systems                                                                               B             B              -                   -
14.1.6. Lighting Systems                                                                               B             B              -                   -
14.1.7. Warning Systems                                                                                B             B              -                   -
14.1.8. Glow plug                                                                                      B             B              -                   -
System
14.2. Interpret Electrical     5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System Diagrams And
Schematics
14.3. Remove And
Install Electrical
Components
14.3.1. Computer System        5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
14.3.2. Ignition System                                                                                2b            b              -                   -
14.4. Inspect, Isolate and
Repair Malfunctions
14.4.1. Batteries              5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
14.4.2. Starting System        5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
14.4.3. Ignition System        5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
14.4.4. Charging System        5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
14.4.5. Lighting System        5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
14.4.6. Warning System         5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -



                                                                           36
                                                       STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge       2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References    Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                            War-
                            time
                            Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                            (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                            Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                       Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                       Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
14.4.7. Glow plug             5                                                                      2b             b             -                 -
System
14.5. Computerized            5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
Vehicle Controls
15. HYDRAULIC
SYSTEM
TR: TOs 35, 36 Series
15.1.                                                                                                 B             B              -                   -
Safety/Fundamentals
15.2. Inspect Hydraulic       5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System Components
15.3. Interpret Hydraulic     5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System Diagrams Or
Schematics
15.4. Isolate Hydraulic       5                                                                        -            b              -                   -
System Malfunctions
15.5. Remove And Install      5                                                                        -            b              -                   -
Hydraulic System
Components
15.6. Manufacture                                                                                     2b            b              -                   -
Hydraulic Hoses
16. POWER TRAINS
TR: TOs 35, 36 Series
16.1. Fundamentals
16.1.1. Transmissions                                                                                 B             B              -                   -
16.1.2. Clutches                                                                                      B             B              -                   -
16.1.3. Transfer Cases                                                                                B             B              -                   -
16.1.4. Drive Axle                                                                                    B             B              -                   -
Assemblies
16.1.5. Drive Trains                                                                                  B             B              -                   -
16.1.6. Transaxle/Front                                                                               B             B              -                   -
Wheel Drive
16.2. Remove And
Install
16.2.1. Automatic                                                                                      -            b              -                   -
Transmissions
16.2.2. Manual                                                                                        2b            b              -                   -
Transmissions
16.2.3. Manual Clutch                                                                                 2b            b              -                   -
Assemblies
16.2.4. Transmission                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
Seals And Gaskets
16.2.5. Flywheel/Ring                                                                                  -            b              -                   -
Gears
16.2.6. Drive Shafts                                                                                  2b            b              -                   -
16.2.7. Rear Wheel                                                                                    2b            b              -                   -
Bearings
16.2.8. CV Joints                                                                                     2b            b              -                   -
16.2.9. Front Wheel                                                                                   2b            b              -                   -
Drive Axles
16.2.10. Fluid Couplings                                                                              2b             -             -                   -
And Torque Converters
16.2.11. Front Wheel          5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
Bearings
16.2.12. Universal Joints     5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
Other Than CVs
16.2.13. Speedometer                                                                                   -             -             -                   -
Cable Assembly
16.3. Repair
16.3.1. Automatic                                                                                      -            b              -                   -
Transaxles
16.3.2. Automatic                                                                                      -            b              -                   -
Transmissions


                                                                          37
                                                        STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge        2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References     Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                             War-
                             time
                             Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                             (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                             Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                        Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                        Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
16.3.3. Manual                                                                                         -             b             -                 -
Transmissions
16.3.4. Transfer Case                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
16.3.5. Differentials                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
16.4. Inspect
16.4.1. Drive Axles            5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
16.4.2. Drive Shaft            5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
Components
16.4.3. CV Joints              5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
16.4.4. Transaxle                                                                                       -            b              -                   -
Assemblies
16.5. Adjust
16.5.1. Automatic              5                                                                       b             b              -                   -
Transmission Controls
And Linkages
16.5.2. Free Play Of                                                                                   b             b              -                   -
Clutch Pedals
16.5.3. Manual                                                                                         b             b              -                   -
Transmission Controls
And Linkages
16.5.4. Transfer Case                                                                                  b             b              -                   -
Linkage Or Controls
16.6. Isolate Automatic                                                                                b             b              -                   -
Transmission
Malfunctions
16.7. Pack Wheel                                                                                       b             b              -                   -
Bearings
16.8. Wheel And Tire
16.8.1. Fundamentals                                                                                   B             B              -                   -
16.8.2 Tire Pressure                                                                                   B             B              -                   -
Monitoring System
16.8.3 Dismount Or
Mount
16.8.3.1 Light Duty Tires      5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
16.8.3.2. Split Rim Tires      5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
16.8.3.3 Split Ring Tires      5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
16.8.3.4. Large Single         5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
Rim Tires
16.8.3.5. Balance                                                                                      2b            b              -                   -
Wheels
17. SUSPENSION
SYSTEMS
TR: TOs 35, 36 Series

17.1. Fundamentals                                                                                     B             B              -                   -
17.2. Remove And
Install
17.2.1. Ball Joints                                                                                     -            b              -                   -
17.2.2. McPherson Struts                                                                                -            b              -                   -
17.2.3. King Pins                                                                                       -            b              -                   -
17.2.4. Shock Absorbers                                                                                 -            b              -                   -
17.3. Inspect Suspension       5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System Components
17.4. Align Suspension                                                                                 b             b              -                   -
System
17.5. Electronic Stability                                                                              -            B              -                   -
Controls (ESC)
18. STEERING
SYSTEM TR: TOs 35,
36 Series
                                                                           38
                                                       STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge       2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References    Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                            War-
                            time
                            Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                            (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                            Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                       Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                       Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
18.1. Fundamentals                                                                                    B             B             -                 -
18.2. Remove And
Install
18.2.1. Idler Arms                                                                                     -            b              -                   -
18.2.2. Pitman Arms                                                                                    -            b              -                   -
18.2.3. Power Steering                                                                                 -            b              -                   -
Hoses
18.2.4. Power Steering                                                                                 -            b              -                   -
Pumps
18.2.5. Steering                                                                                       -            b              -                   -
Gearboxes
18.2.6. Steering Wheels                                                                                -            b              -                   -
18.2.7. Tie Rod                                                                                        -            b              -                   -
Components
18.2.8. Wheel Spindle                                                                                  -            b              -                   -
18.2.9. Wheel Studs                                                                                    -            b              -                   -
18.3. Inspect Steering                                                                                2b            b              -                   -
System Components
18.4. Adjust Steering                                                                                 b             b              -                   -
Gear Components
18.5. Isolate Steering                                                                                b             b              -                   -
System Malfunctions
19. BRAKE SYSTEMS
TR: TOs 35, 36 Series
19.1. Common
Components
19.1.1. Remove And
Install Components
19.1.1.1. Rotors                                                                                      2b            b              -                   -
19.1.1.2. Drums               5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
19.1.1.3. Brake Shoes         5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
19.1.1.4. Disc Brake          5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
Calipers
19.1.1.5. Disc Brake Pads    5                                                                        2b            b              -                   -
19.1.1.6. Anti-Lock         AV7                                                                        -            b              -                   -
Brake System
19.1.1.7. Parking Brake       5                                                                       b             b              -                   -
19.1.1.8. Self-Adjusting      5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
Brake Mechanism
19.1.2. Adjust
19.1.2.1. Parking Brakes      5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
19.1.2.2. Service Brakes      5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
19.1.3. Re-surface
19.1.3.1. Brake Drum                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
19.1.3.2. Disc Brake                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
Rotors
19.2. Hydraulic Brakes
TR: TO 36 Series
19.2.1. Fundamentals                                                                                  B             B              -                   -
19.2.2. Remove And
Install
19.2.2.1. Master Cylinder     5                                                                        -            b              -                   -
19.2.2.2. Wheel               5                                                                        -            b              -                   -
Cylinders
19.2.2.3. Hoses Or Lines      5                                                                        -            b              -                   -
19.2.2.4. Boosters,                                                                                    -            b              -                   -
Airpacks or Hydrovac
Components
19.2.3. Test Hydraulic                                                                                 -            b              -                   -
Brake System


                                                                          39
                                                       STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge       2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References    Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                            War-
                            time
                            Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                            (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                            Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                       Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                       Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
19.2.4. Bleed Brake           5                                                                      2b             b             -                 -
System
19.2.5. Isolate
Malfunctions
19.2.5.1. Anti-Lock         AV7                                                                       b             b              -                   -
Brake System
Components
19.2.5.2. Booster,            5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
Airpack Or Hydrovac
System
19.2.5.3. Hydraulic Brake     5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
19.2.6. Disassemble And
Assemble
19.2.6.1. Master Cylinder                                                                              -            b              -                   -
19.2.6.2. Disc Brake                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
Calipers
19.2.6.3. Booster,                                                                                     -            b              -                   -
Airpack Or Hydrovac
Components
19.3. Air Brakes TR:
TO 36 Series
19.3.1. Fundamentals                                                                                  B             B              -                   -
19.3.2. Inspect Air Brake     5
System Components                                                                                     2b            b              -                   -
19.3.3. Isolate Air Brake     5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System Malfunctions
19.3.4. Isolate Anti-Lock                                                                              -            b              -                   -
Brake System
Malfunctions
19.3.5. Remove And            5                                                                        -            b              -                   -
Install Air Brake
Chambers
19.3.6. Repair Air Brake                                                                               -            b              -                   -
Chambers
19.3.7. Adjust Slack          5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
Adjusters
19.4. Electric Brakes
TR: TO 36 Series
19.4.1. Fundamentals                                                                                   -            B              -                   -
19.4.2. Inspect Electric                                                                               -            -              -                   -
Brake System
Components
19.4.3. Isolate Electric                                                                               -             -             -                   -
Brake System
Malfunctions
19.4.4. Remove And                                                                                     -             -             -                   -
Install Electric Brake
Components
20. AIR SYSTEM
TR: TO 36 Series
20.1. Fundamentals                                                                                    B             B              -                   -
20.2. Inspect                 5                                                                       b             b              -                   -
Components
20.3. Isolate                                                                                          -             -             -                   -
Malfunctions
20.4. Adjust Air                                                                                      b             b              -                   -
Governor
20.5. Repair
20.5.1. Compressor                                                                                     -            b              -                   -
20.5.2. Air Governor                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
20.5.3. Valves                                                                                         -            b              -                   -


                                                                          40
                                                      STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge      2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References   Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                           War-
                           time
                           Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                           (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                           Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                      Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                      Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
20.5.4.                                                                                              -             b             -                 -
Actuators/Cylinders
20.6. Replace Air Lines/                                                                             b              -             -                   -
Fittings
20.7. Central Tire
Inflation System (CTIS)
20.7.1. Fundamentals                                                                                  -            B              -                   -
20.7.2. Inspect CTIS                                                                                  -            b              -                   -
Systems
20.7.3. Isolate CTIS                                                                                  -            b              -                   -
System Malfunctions
20.7.4. Remove And                                                                                    -            b              -                   -
Install CTIS System
Components
21. HEATING/AIR
CONDITIONING
SYSTEMS (A/C)
TR: TO 36 Series
21.1. Heating Systems
21.1.1. Fundamentals                                                                                 B             B              -                   -
21.1.2. Isolate/Repair       5                                                                       -             b              -                   -
Heating System
Malfunctions
21.1.3. Remove And                                                                                    -            b              -                   -
Install Heater Cores
21.2. A/C Systems
21.2.1. Fundamentals                                                                                 B             B              -                   -
21.2.2. Inspect A/C                                                                                  2b            b              -                   -
System
21.2.3. Service
21.2.3.1. Evacuate A/C                                                                                -            b              -                   -
System
21.2.3.2. Charge A/C                                                                                  -            b              -                   -
System
21.2.4. Isolate
21.2.4.1. A/C System                                                                                  -            b              -                   -
Malfunctions
21.2.4.2. A/C System                                                                                  -            b              -                   -
Leaks
21.2.5 Remove and
Install
21.2.5.1 System                                                                                       -            b              -                   -
Components
22. AIR BAG SYSTEM
TR: TOs 36-1-191, 36,
36M, 36Y Series
22.1. Fundamentals                                                                                   B             B              -                   B
22.2. Inspect Air Bag                                                                                -             b              -                   -
Systems
22.3. Isolate Air Bag                                                                                 -            b              -                   -
System Malfunctions
22.4. Remove And Install                                                                              -            b              -                   -
Air Bag System
Components
23. MILITARY
SERIES VEHICLES
TR: TOs 36-1-191, 36
Series
23.1. Fundamentals
23.1.1. HMMWV                                                                                        B             B              -                   B
23.1.2. MRAP                                                                                         B             B              -                   B


                                                                         41
                                                       STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge       2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References    Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                            War-
                            time
                            Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                            (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                            Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                       Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                       Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
23.1.3. Medium M-Series                                                                               -             B             -                 B
(i.e., M35, M1083)
23.2. Isolate and Repair
Malfunctions
23.2.1. HMMWV
23.2.1.1. Mechanical                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
System
23.2.1.2. Steering System                                                                              -            b              -                   -
23.2.1.3. Suspension                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
System
23.2.1.4. Electrical                                                                                  2b            b              -                   -
System
23.2.2. Medium M-
Series (i.e., M35, M1083)
23.2.2.1. Mechanical                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
System
23.2.2.2. Steering System                                                                              -            b              -                   -
23.2.2.3. Suspension                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
System
23.2.2.4. Electrical                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
System
23.2.2.5. Air System                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
23.2.2.6. Hydraulic                                                                                    -            b              -                   -
System
23.2.3. MRAP
23.2.3.1. Life                                                                                        2b            b              -                   -
Support/HVAC Systems
23.2.3.2. Electrical                                                                                  2b            b              -                   -
System
23.3 Inspect
23.3.1. MRAP
23.3.1.1. Fire                                                                                        b             b              -                   -
Suppression Systems
23.4. Remove and
Replace
23.4.1. MRAP
23.4.1.1. Body Armor                                                                                  2b            b              -                   -
23.4.2. Medium M-
Series (i.e., M35, M1083)
23.4.2.1. Driveline                                                                                    -             -             -                   -
Components
24. CRANES
TR: TO 36 Series
24.1. Fundamentals                                                                                    B             B              -                   B
24.2. Isolate And Repair
Malfunctions
24.2.1. Mechanical                                                                                     -             -             b                   -
24.2.2. Electrical           V7                                                                       2b             -             b                   -
24.2.3. Computer Control     V7                                                                       2b             -             b                   -
Systems
24.2.4. Hydraulic            V7                                                                       2b             -             b                   -
24.3. Adjust
24.3.1. Mechanical                                                                                     -             -             b                   -
24.3.2. Hydraulic                                                                                      -             -             b                   -
25. CRAWLER
TRACTORS
TR: TO 36 Series
25.1. Fundamentals                                                                                     -            B              -                   B



                                                                          42
                                                      STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge      2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References   Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                           War-
                           time
                           Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                           (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                           Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                      Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                      Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
25.2. Isolate
Malfunctions
25.2.1. Final Drive                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
Assembly
25.2.2. Steering System                                                                               -            b              -                   -

25.2.3. Track System                                                                                  -            b              -                   -
25.3. Adjust
25.3.1. Final Drive                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
Assembly
25.3.2. Steering System                                                                               -            b              -                   -
25.3.3. Track System                                                                                  -            b              -                   -
25.4. Repair
25.4.1. Final Drive                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
Assembly
25.4.2. Steering System                                                                               -            b              -                   -
25.4.3. Track System                                                                                  -            b              -                   -
26. SWEEPER
AUXILIARY
SYSTEMS TR: TO 36
Series
26.1. Fundamentals                                                                                   B             B              -                   B
26.2. Isolate And Repair
Malfunctions
26.2.1. Auxiliary           V7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
Electrical System
26.2. 2. Hydraulic          V7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
26.2. 3. Mechanical         V7                                                                        -            b              -                   -
System
26.2. 4. Water System       V7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
26.3. Adjust
26.3.1. Hydraulic System     V                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
26.3.2. Mechanical           V                                                                        -            b              -                   -
System
26.3.3. Water System                                                                                  -            b              -                   -
27. EQUIPMENT
ATTACHMENT
TR: TO 36 Series
27.1. Fundamentals
27.1.1. Snow Broom                                                                                   -             B              -                   B
27.1.2. Snow Blower                                                                                  B             B              -                   B
27.1.3. Blade/Hitch                                                                                  -             B              -                   -
Assembly
27.2. Isolate And Repair
Malfunctions
27.2.1. Snow Broom                                                                                   -             b              -                   -
27.2.2. Snow Blower                                                                                  2b            b              -                   -
27.2.3 Blade/Hitch                                                                                    -            b              -                   -
Assembly
27.3. Adjust
27.3 1. Snow Broom                                                                                    -            b              -                   -
27.3.2. Snow Blower                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
27.3.3 Blade/Hitch                                                                                    -            b              -                   -
Assembly
27.4. Inspect
27.4.1. Snow Broom                                                                                    -            b              -                   -
27.4.2. Snow Blower                                                                                  2b            b              -                   -


                                                                         43
                                                       STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge       2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References    Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                            War-
                            time
                            Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                            (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                            Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                       Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                       Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
27.4.3 Blade/Hitch                                                                                    -             b             -                 -
Assembly
28. TOWING AND
SERVICING
VEHICLES TR: TOs
36-1-191, 35E17, 36A10,
36Y Series
28.1. Aircraft Towing
Tractors
28.1.1. Fundamentals                                                                                  B             B              -                   -
28.1.2. Isolate And
Repair Malfunctions
28.1.2.1. Electrical        V7                                                                        2b            b              -                   -
System
28.1.2.2. Hydraulic         V7                                                                         -            b              -                   -
System
28.1.2.3. Steering System   V7                                                                        2b            b              -                   -
28.1.2.4. Braking System    V7                                                                        b             b              -                   -
28.1.3. Adjust
28.1.3.1. Hydraulic                                                                                    -            b              -                   -
System
28.1.3.2. Steering System                                                                              -             -             -                   -
28.1.3.3. Braking System    V7                                                                         -            b              -                   -
28.2. Deicers
28.2.1. Fundamentals                                                                                  B             B              -                   B
28.2.2. Fire Suppression                                                                              B             B              -                   -
System
28.2.2. Isolate And
Repair Malfunctions
28.2.2.1. Electrical                                                                                  2b            b              -                   -
System
28.2.2.2. Hydraulic                                                                                   2b            b              -                   -
System
28.2.2.3. Dispensing                                                                                  2b            b              -                   -
System
28.2.2.4. Heating System     V7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
28.2.3. Adjust
28.2.3.1. Electrical                                                                                   -            b              -                   -
System Switches
28.2.3.2. Hydraulic                                                                                   2b            b              -                   -
System
28.2.3.3. Dispensing                                                                                  2b            b              -                   -
System
28.3 Refueling Vehicles
28.3.1 General Safety                                                                                  -            B              -                   B
Precautions
28.3.2 Fundamental                                                                                     -            B              -                   B
Operations
29. GRADERS TR: TO
36 Series
29.1. Fundamentals                                                                                     -             -             -                   -
29.2. Isolate And Repair
Malfunctions
29.2.1. Electrical System                                                                              -            b              -                   -
29.2.2. Hydraulic System                                                                               -            b              -                   -
29.2.3. Drive train                                                                                    -            b              -                   -
System
29.2.4. Steering System                                                                                -            b              -                   -
30. FIRE TRUCKS
TR: TOs 36-1-191,
36A12 Series
30.1. Fundamentals

                                                                          44
                                                      STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge      2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References   Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                           War-
                           time
                           Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                           (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                           Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                      Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                      Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
30.1.1. Crash Truck
30.1.1.1. Dispensing         A                                                                       B             B              -                   B
System
30.1.1.2. Winterization                                                                              B             B              -                   B
System
30.1.1.3. Hydraulic                                                                                  B             B              -                   B
System
30.1.1.4. Air System                                                                                 B             B              -                   B
30.1.1.5. Electrical                                                                                 B             B              -                   B
System
30.1.1.6. Mechanical                                                                                 B             B              -                   B
System
30.1.2. Structural Truck
30.1.2.1. Dispensing         A                                                                       B             B              -                   B
System
30.1.2.2. Winterization                                                                               -             -             -                   -
System
30.1.2.3. Air System                                                                                 B             B              -                   B
30.1.2.4. Electrical                                                                                 B             B              -                   B
System
30.1.2.5. Mechanical                                                                                 B             B              -                   B
System
30.2. Isolate And Repair
Malfunctions
30.2.1. Crash Truck
30.2.1.1. Dispensing        A7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
30.2.1.2. Winterization                                                                              2b            b              -                   -
System
30.2.1.3. Hydraulic                                                                                   -             -             -                   -
System
30.2.1.4. Air System        A7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
30.2.1.5. Electrical        A7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
30.2.1.6. Mechanical        A7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
30.2.1.7 Drivetrain                                                                                  2b            b              -                   -
30.2.2. Structural Truck
30.2.2.1. Dispensing        A7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
30.2.2.2. Winterization                                                                               -             -             -                   -
System
30.2.2.3. Hydraulic                                                                                   -             -             -                   -
System
30.2.2.4. Air System        A7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
30.2.2.5. Electrical        A7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
30.2.2.6. Mechanical                                                                                 2b            b              -                   -
System
30.3. Adjust
Components
30.3.1. Crash Truck
30.3.1.1. Dispensing         A                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
30.3.1.2. Winterization                                                                              2b            b                                  -
System
30.3.1.3. Hydraulic                                                                                   -             -                                 -
System
30.3.1.4. Air System                                                                                 2b            b              -                   -
30.3.1.5. Electrical         A                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
30.3.1.6. Mechanical                                                                                 2b            b              -                   -
System
30.3.2. Structural Truck
                                                                         45
                                                      STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge      2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References   Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                           War-
                           time
                           Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                           (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                           Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                      Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                      Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
30.3.2.1. Dispensing         A                                                                      2b             b             -                 -
System
30.3.2.2. Winterization                                                                               -             -             -                   -
System
30.3.2.3. Hydraulic                                                                                   -             -             -                   -
System
30.3.2.4. Air System                                                                                  -            -              -                   -
30.3.2.5. Electrical                                                                                  -            b              -                   -
System
30.3.2.6. Mechanical         A                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
31. MHE/463L
EQUIPMENT
TR: TO 36 Series
31.1. Fundamentals
31.1.1. Forklifts                                                                                    B             B              -                   B
31.1.2. Cargo Loaders,                                                                               B             B              -                   B
Small
31.1.3. Cargo Loaders,                                                                               B             B              -                   B
60K
31.2. Isolate And Repair
Malfunctions
31.2.1. Forklifts
Standard
31.2.1.1. Electrical        C7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
31.2.1.2. Hydraulic         C7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
31.2.1.3. Mechanical        C7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
31.2.2. Forklifts
Adverse-Terrain
31.2.2.1. Electrical        C7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
31.2.2.2. Hydraulic         C7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
31.2.2.3. Air System        C7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
31.2.2.4. Mechanical        C7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
31.2.3. Cargo Loaders,
Small
31.2.3.1. Electrical        C7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
31.2.3.2. Hydraulic         C7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
31.2.3.3. Mechanical        C7                                                                        -            b              -                   -
System
31.2.4. Cargo Loaders,
60K
31.2.4.1. Electrical        C7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
31.2.4.2. Hydraulic         C7                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
31.2.4.3. Air System                                                                                 2b            b              -                   -
31.2.4.4. Mechanical        C7                                                                        -            b              -                   -
System
31.3. Adjust
Components
31.3.1. Forklift
Standard
31.3.1.1. Hydraulic          C                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System
31.3.1.2. Mechanical         C                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
System

                                                                         46
                                                      STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge      2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References   Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                           War-
                           time
                           Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                           (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                           Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                      Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                      Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
31.3.2. Forklift
Adverse-Terrain
31.3.2.1. Hydraulic            C                                                                     2b            b              -                   -
System
31.3.2.2. Mechanical           C                                                                     2b            b              -                   -
System
31.3.3. Cargo Loader,
Small
31.3.3.1. Electrical           C                                                                     2b            b              -                   -
System
31.3.3.2. Hydraulic            C                                                                      -            b              -                   -
System
31.3.3.3. Air System                                                                                  -            b              -                   -
31.3.4. Cargo Loader,
60K
31.3.4.1. Steering             C                                                                     2b            b              -                   -
31.3.4.2. Encoders             C                                                                     2b            b              -                   -
31.3.4.3. Electrical           C                                                                     2b            b              -                   -
System
32. BODY AND CAB
TR: TOs 36-1-50, 36A-
1-1313, 36 Series
32.1. Fundamentals Of          V                                                                      -            B              -                   B
Body And Cab
Components
32.2. Remove/Replace
32.2.1. Panels                                                                                        -             -             -                   b
32.2.2. Doors                                                                                         -             -             -                   b
32.2.3. Fenders                                                                                       -             -             -                   b
32.2.4. Bumpers                                                                                       -             -             -                   b
32.2.5. Grills                                                                                        -             -             -                   b
32.2.6. Deck lids                                                                                     -             -             -                   b
32.2.7. Hoods                                                                                         -             -             -                   b
32.3. General Body
Repair
32.3.1. Locate                                                                                        -             -             -                   B
Irregularities
32.3.2. Bump-Out                                                                                      -             -             -                   B
Irregularities
32.3.3. Shrink Metal                                                                                  -             -             -                   B
32.4. Repair
Components Using:
32.4.1. Fiberglass                                                                                    -             -             -                   B
32.4.2. Plastics                                                                                      -             -             -                   B
32.4.3. Composites                                                                                    -             -             -                   B
32.5. Fabricate Body                                                                                  -             -             -                   B
Panels And Brackets
33. TRIM AND
HARDWARE
TR: TO 36 Series
33.1. Fundamentals                                                                                    -            B              -                   B
33.2. Replace/Repair
33.2.1. Channels                                                                                      -             -             -                   b
33.2.2. Door Glass                                                                                    -             -             -                   b
Bumpers
33.2.3. Lock Mechanisms    V                                                                          -            -              -                   b
33.2.4. Moldings                                                                                      -            -              -                   b
33.2.5. Regulators         V                                                                          -            b              -                   b
33.2.6. Weather Strips                                                                                -            -              -                   b
33.2.7. Trim Panels/                                                                                  -            -              -                   b
Coverings
                                                                         47
                                                        STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge       2.       3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References    Core/                                                                  Training/Information Provided
                            War-
                            time
                            Tasks        A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                            (See                                                                     3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                            Note)                                                                    Level         Level
                                        Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                        Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
33.2.8. Hinges              V                                                                          -             b             -                 b
33.2.9. Dash Pads                                                                                      -             -             -                 b
33.3. Sewing Machines
33.3.1. Fundamentals                                                                                    -             -             -                   -
33.3.2. Operate                                                                                         -             -             -                   -
33.3.3. Operator
Maintenance
33.3.3.1. Adjust                                                                                        -             -             -                   -
33.3.3.2. Clean                                                                                         -             -             -                   -
33.3.3.3. Lubricate                                                                                     -             -             -                   -
33.4. Upholstery/
Components
33.4.1. Fundamentals                                                                                    -            B              -                   B
33.4.2. Fabricate                                                                                       -            b              -                   -
33.4.3. Inspect                                                                                         -            B              -                   -
33.4.4. Repair                                                                                          -            b              -                   -
33.4.5. Replace                                                                                         -            b              -                   -
33.5. Seat Belts
33.5.1. Inspect                 5                                                                       -            b              -                   -
33.5.2. Install                 5                                                                       -            b              -                   -
33.5.3. Replace                 5                                                                       -            b              -                   -
34. GLASS
TR: TO 36 Series
34.1. Fundamentals                                                                                      -             -             -                   B
34.2. Cut
34.2.1. Glass                                                                                           -             -             -                   B
34.2.2. Plexiglas                                                                                       -             -             -                   -
34.3. Fit                                                                                               -             -             -                   B
34.4. Replace
34.4.1. Windows                 V7                                                                      -            b              -                   b
34.4.2. Windshields             V7                                                                      -            b              -                   b
34.5. Repair Glass                                                                                      -            b              -                   b
35.
PAINTING/Marking
TR: TOs 1-1-8, 36-1-
191, 36-1-161, 36-1-171,
36 Series
35.1. Fundamentals                                                                                      -            A              -                   B
35.2. Prepare Surface                                                                                   -            A              -                   B
35.3. Prepare/Apply
35.3.1. Corrosion Control                                                                               -             a             -                   -
Materials
35.3.2. Enamels                                                                                         -             a             -                   -
35.3.3. Markings                                                                                        -             a             -                   -
35.3.4. Polyurethane                                                                                    -             a             -                   -
35.3.5. Primers                                                                                         -             a             -                   -
35.3.6. Base/Clear Coat                                                                                 -             a             -                   -
35.4. Spot Paint/Blend
35.4.1. Single Stage                                                                                    -             -             -                   -
35.4.2. Two Stage                                                                                       -             -             -                   -
36. HEAT
EXCHANGERS
TR: TO 36 Series
36.1. Fundamentals                                                                                      -            B              -                   B
36.2. Remove/Replace                                                                                    -            b              -                   -
36.3. Test                                                                                              -            b              -                   -
36.4. Repair
36.4.1. Metal                                                                                           -            b              -                   -


                                                                           48
                                                      STS 2T3X1, 2T3X2A/C, 2T370

  1. Tasks, Knowledge      2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
And Technical References   Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                           War-
                           time
                           Tasks       A              B          C            D          E           A             B                       C
                           (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill              7-Skill Level
                           Note)                                                                   Level         Level
                                      Tng           Tng       Trainee      Trainer     Cert                                     (1)               (2)
                                      Start        Compl      Initials     Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course            CDC
36.4.2. Composite                                                                                    -             b             -                 -
37. FUEL TANKS
TR: TO 36 Series
37.1. Purge                                                                                           -             -             -                   -
37.2. Repair                                                                                          -             -             -                   -
38. WELDING
EQUIPMENT
TR: TOs 34W4-1-5,
34W-1-7, 34W-1-8, 36
Series
38.1. Fundamentals
38.1.1. Set Up/                                                                                      B             B                                  B
Preparation
38.1.2. Gas Metal Arc                                                                                B             B              -                   B
38.1.3. Shielded Metal                                                                               B             B              -                   B
Arc
38.1.4. Gas Tungsten Arc                                                                              -            B              -                   B
Welding
38.1.5.                                                                                              B             B              -                   B
Oxygen/Acetylene
38.1.6. Plasma Cutter                                                                                B             B              -                   B
38.2. Weld Metals
Using:
38.2.1. Gas Metal Arc                                                                                2b            b              -                   b
38.2.2. Shielded Metal                                                                               2b            b              -                   b
Arc
38.2.3.                                                                                              2b            b              -                   b
Oxygen/Acetylene
38.2.4. Brazing                                                                                       -            b              -                   b
38.2.5. Soldering                                                                                     -            b              -                   b
38.3. Cut metals Using:
38.3.1.                                                                                              2b            b              -                   b
Oxygen/Acetylene
38.3.2. Plasma Cutter                                                                                2b            b              -                   b
39.
COLLISION/BATTLE
DAMAGE BODY
REPAIR
TR: Collision
Estimating Guides; TO
36 Series
39.1. Fundamentals                                                                                    -             -             -                   B
39.2. Locate And Assess                                                                               -             -                                 b
Damage
39.3. Estimate                                                                                        -             -             -                   b
Repairs/Cost
39.4. Perform Interim                                                                                 -             -                                 b
Repairs
40. TOWING
TR: TO 36-1-191
40.1. Pintle Hook
40.1.1. Inspect              5                                                                       2b            b              -                   -
40.1.2. Replace                                                                                       -            -              -                   -
40.2. Fifth Wheel
40.2.1. Inspect            AV7                                                                        -            b              -                   -
40.2.2. Replace                                                                                       -            b              -                   -
40.3. King Pin
40.3.1. Inspect            AV7                                                                        -            b              -                   -
40.3.2. Replace                                                                                       -            b              -                   -
41. FRAME
TR: TO 36 Series
41.1. Inspect For Damage                                                                              -            b              -                   -


                                                                         49
                                             STS 2T3X7

2. VEHICLE MANAGEMENT AND ANALYSIS APPRENTICE, JOURNEYMAN, AND
CRAFTSMAN
2.1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC applies to all
classes entering after 4 October 2010; CDC customer need date June 2012.
2.2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:
2.2.1. Lists the mandatory and general tasks, knowledge and TRs necessary for Airmen to perform duties
at the 3-, 5- and 7-skill levels in the AFSC 2T3X7 ladder of the Airman Vehicle Management Career
Field.
2.2.2. Becomes an AFJQS for OJT when placed in an OJT record and used according to AFI
36-2201.
2.2.3. Provides OJT certification columns in Part 2, Section A to record completion of task
and knowledge training requirements.
2.2.4. Shows formal training requirements. The 3- and 7-level course columns show the proficiency to
be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training in skill-level ascension courses.
2.2.5. It is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the WAPS. SKTs are developed at the
USAF Occupational Measurement Squadron by senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in
their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development
team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study
references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2502, Airman
Promotion/Demotion Programs. WAPS is only applicable to active duty personnel.
2.3. Qualitative Requirements. Part 2, Section A contains the proficiency code key used to indicate
the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.
2.4. Documentation. Supervisors, trainers and trainees must ensure all training documentation
contained within an Airman’s Individual Training Plan (ITP) in TBA IAW AFI 36-2201 and the
current TBA Application User’s Guide.
2.4.1. The 2T3XX AFCFM has not identified any core tasks requiring third-party certification.
However, MAJCOMs may establish policy concerning third-party certification. Note: Required up-
grade training “core task(s)” identified by local unit, as “not available for training” must be
annotated in TBA. The 5- or 7-level skill can then be awarded when all other training and core
tasks are complete.
2.4.2. Converting External Task into TBA (Transcription Procedures). This action allows
Supervisors to convert tasks from an external source (AF Form623) into TBA. When this action is
initiated, the tasks that are converted into TBA go into the Airman’s archived task lists. At that point,
the supervisor with authority over the Airman’s record can then select which tasks should be
unarchived and moved to an active status IAW the TBA Application User’s Guide.
2.4.3. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available: The supervisor identifies
CDC training references that the trainee requires for career knowledge and ensures, as a minimum, that
the trainee covers the mandatory items in the AFECD. For two-time CDC course exams failures:
Supervisors identify all STS items corresponding to the areas covered by the CDC. The trainee
completes a study of CDC references, undergoes evaluation by the supervisor and receives ITP task
completion in TBA. Note: Career knowledge must be documented prior to pursuing a CDC waiver.
2.4.4. Decertification and Recertification of ITP Task. When an Airman is found to be unqualified
on an ITP task previously completed for their duty position in TBA, the supervisor will take action to
decertify the task and complete Journal Entry IAW the TBA Application User’s Guide, Decertify IPT
Task instructions.
2.5. Training Standard. Tasks are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. Go
means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meet local demands
for accuracy, timeliness and correct use of procedures IAW AFI 36-2201.

                                                  50
                                            STS 2T3X7

2.6. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to
344 TRS/TRRP, 1015 Femoyer Street, Lackland AFB TX 78236-5404. Report inadequacies of
this STS through command channels to HQ USAF/A4LE, referencing specific STS paragraphs.
A customer service information line has been installed for supervisors' convenience to identify
graduates who may have been over or under trained on task/knowledge items listed in this
training standard. For a quick response to problems, call the customer service information line,
DSN 473-2917, from 0730-1630 CST/CDST.

Notes:
 1. Users are responsible for updating training references pending revision of this STS.
 2. All tasks trained by AETC in 3level courses are considered Wartime Tasks.
 3. Items in Core/Wartime Tasks column marked with a symbol/character (5 or 7) are
mandatory “core” tasks that must be completed before the next skill level can be awarded.
Required up-grade training “core task(s)” identified by local unit, as “not available for training”
must be annotated in TBA. Comments regarding training availability may also be annotated in
TBA. The 5- or 7-skill level can then be awarded when all other training and core tasks are
complete.

5 = Required core task for training to AFSC 2T357
7 = Required core task for training to AFSC 2T377




                                                51
                                                         STS 2T3X7

                                          QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                    Proficiency Code Key
                   Scale
                              Definitions: The Individual
                   Value
                              Can do simple parts of task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task.
                      1
     Task                     (Extremely Limited)
                              Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on the hardest parts. (Partially
Performance           2       Proficient)
    Levels                    Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
                      3
                              Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show other how to do the
                      4       task. (Highly Proficient)
                              Can name parts, tools and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
                      a
    *Task
 Knowledge            b       Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)

    Levels                    Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                      c
                              (operating Principles)
                      d       Can predict, isolate and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                              Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
                      A
  **Subject
                              Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject.
 Knowledge            B       (Principles)
    Levels                    Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
                      C
                              Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
                      D

Explanations:
"*" A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a performance scale value to define a level of
knowledge for a specific task. (Example: b and 1b)
"**" A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related
to any specific task, or for a subject common to several task.
"-" This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course
or CDC.
"X" This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training required but not given due to limitations in
resources.
Note for Core/Wartime Task (Column 2):
Items in Core/Wartime Tasks column marked with a symbol/character (5 or 7) are mandatory “core” tasks that must be
completed before the next skill level can be awarded. Required up-grade training “core task(s)” identified by local unit, as “not
available for training” must be annotated in TBA. Comments regarding training availability may also be annotated in TBA. The
5- or 7-skill level can then be awarded when all other training and core tasks are complete.




                                                               52
                                                                    STS 2T3X7

1. Tasks, Knowledge And          2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Technical References             Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                 War-
                                 time
                                 Tasks       A              B            C          D          E           A             B             C
                                 (See                                                                    3-Skill       5-Skill       7-Skill
                                 Note)                                                                   Level         Level         Level
                                            Tng           Tng         Trainee    Trainer     Cert
                                            Start        Compl        Initials   Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course
1. CAREER PATH IN                                                                                          -             B             -
VEHICLE Management
TR: AFI 36-2101, AFECD
2. SPECIFIC OPERATION                                                                                      A             B              -
SECURITY (OPSEC)
VULNERABILITIES OF
AFSC 2T3X7
TR: AFI 10-701
3. AF OCCUPATIONAL
SAFETY AND HEALTH
(AFOSH) PROGRAM TR:
AFIs 32-2001, 32-7042, 32-
7080, 90-803, 91-202, 91-302;
Applicable AFOSH STDS;
TOs 34-1-3, 36-1-191
3.1. Practice Personnel And                                                                                 -            b              -
Shop Safety
3.2. Hazards of AFSC 2T3X7                                                                                  -            B              -
3.3. AFOSH Standards For                                                                                    -            B              -
AFSC 2T3X7
3.4. Initial Federal Hazard                                                                                A              -             -
Communication Training
Program
3.5. Environmental
Compliance
3.5.1. Hazardous Waste                                                                                      -            B              -
Management
3.5.2. Pollution Prevention                                                                                 -            B              -
3.5.3. Waste Minimization                                                                                   -            B              -
3.5.4. Hazardous Material                                                                                   -            B              -
Management
4. VEHICLE
MANAGEMENT TR: AFIs
10-201, 23-302, 36-2101, 38-
101, 38-201, 65-601V1; AF
Manpower Standard 42B1
4.1. Identify Vehicle                                                                                       -            b              b
Management Manning
Requirements
4.2. Prepare Budget/ Financial      7                                                                       -            b             2b
Plan Inputs
4.3. Vehicle Management
Support of Contingency
Operations
4.3.1. Policy                                                                                               -            A             B
4.3.2. Organization                                                                                         -            A             B
4.3.3. Responsibility                                                                                       -            A             B
4.3.4. Status of Resources and                                                                              -            B             -
Training System (SORTS)
5. POLICIES,
PROCEDURES, AND
RESPONSIBILITIES
TR: AFI 23-302; AFMANs
23-220, 64-124; AFMAN 24-
306; AFCSM 24-1; DOD
Directives 4500.36R, 5500.7;
TOs 00-35D-54, 35-1-24, 35-
1-25, 35-1-26, 36-1-7, 36-1-
191; Command Directives
5.1. LRS and Vehicle                                                                                       B             B              -
Management Structure



                                                                       53
                                                                    STS 2T3X7

1. Tasks, Knowledge And          2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Technical References             Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                 War-
                                 time        A              B            C          D          E           A               B           C
                                 Tasks                                                                   3-Skill         5-Skill     7-Skill
                                 (See                                                                    Level           Level       Level
                                 Note)      Tng           Tng         Trainee    Trainer     Cert
                                            Start        Compl        Initials   Initials   Initials     Course          CDC         Course
5.2. Vehicle Management
Responsibilities
5.2.1. VFM/VMS                                                                                             B               B            -
5.2.2. Vehicle Management &                                                                                B               B            -
Analysis
5.2.3. Materiel Control                                                                                    B               B            -
5.2.4. Work Center Supervisor                                                                              B               B            -
5.3. Administer Policies/
Procedures
5.3.1. Track Accident/Abuse         5                                                                       -              b            -
Programs
5.3.2. Limited Technical            5                                                                      B               B            -
Inspection (LTI)
5.3.3. Replacement Codes                                                                                   B               B            -
5.3.4. Cannibalization              5                                                                      B               b            -
Procedures
5.3.5. Develop Depot                7                                                                       -              b           2b
Maintenance Plan
5.3.6. Vehicle Add-ons                                                                                      -              B            -
5.3.7. Vehicle/Equipment                                                                                    -              B            -
Storage
5.3.8. Corrosion Control                                                                                    -              B            -
5.3.9. Vehicle Authorizations
5.3.9.1. Request Coordination                                                                               -              B            -
5.3.9.2. Review/Validate            7                                                                       -              -            -
Request
5.3.10. Vehicle/Part Warranty       5                                                                      B               B            -
5.3.11. Vehicle Identification                                                                             -               -            -
Link (VIL) Key
5.3.12. Manage TCTOs/               7                                                                       -              b           2b
Service Bulletins/
Manufacturer's Recalls/One-
Time Inspections
5.3.13. Contract Programs
5.3.13.1. AF Form 9                                                                                         -        B                  -
5.3.13.2. Blanket Purchase                                                                                  -        B                  -
Agreements
5.3.13.3. Government                                                                                        -        B                  -
Purchase Card (GPC)
5.3.14. Rental/Lease Vehicles
5.3.14.1. Short Term                                                                                        -              B            -
5.3.14.2. Long Term                                                                                         -              B            -
5.3.14.3. Lease with Option to                                                                              -              B            -
Buy
5.3.14.4. General Services                                                                                  -               -           -
Administration (GSA) Vehicle
Management
5.3.15. Manage Delayed
Maintenance Program
5.3.15.1. Maintenance/Parts         5                                                                      B               b            -
5.3.15.2. NMCS                      5                                                                      B               B            -
5.3.15.3. Reconcile Delayed         5                                                                      2b              b            -
Maintenance Files
5.3.16. Deficiency Reporting
5.3.16.1 Deficiency Report          5                                                                      B               b            -
Overview
5.3.16.2. Prepare Deficiency        5                                                                       -              b           2b
Reports




                                                                       54
                                                                   STS 2T3X7

1. Tasks, Knowledge And         2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Technical References            Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                War-
                                time        A              B            C          D          E           A             B             C
                                Tasks                                                                   3-Skill       5-Skill       7-Skill
                                (See                                                                    Level         Level         Level
                                Note)      Tng           Tng         Trainee    Trainer     Cert
                                           Start        Compl        Initials   Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course
5.3.17 Annual Code
Validation
5.3.17.1. Perform                  5                                                                       -            b              -
Reimbursable /Distributable
(R/D)
5.3.17.2. Perform                  5                                                                       -            b              -
Responsibility Center/Cost
Center (RC/CC)
5.3.17.3. Master Nuclear           5                                                                      A             B              -
Certification List (MNCL)
5.3.18. Vehicle Control
Program
5.3.18.1. VCO/VCNCO                5                                                                      B             B              -
Program
5.3.18.2. Conduct Vehicle          5                                                                       -            b              -
Assessments
5.3.18.3. Perform Unit             5                                                                       -            b              -
Assistance Visit
5.3.19.4. Coordinate Vehicle       5                                                                       -            b              -
Rotations
5.3.19. Official Travel
5.3.19.1. Toll Tickets                                                                                    -             -             -
5.3.19.2. Fleet Fuel/Service       7                                                                      B             B             B
Card
5.4. Vehicle Priorities
5.4.1. Mission Essential
Level (MEL) and priority
recall listing (VPRL)
5.4.1.1. Develop MEL               7                                                                      b             b              -
5.4.1.2.. Conduct VPRL             5                                                                      B             b              -
6. MATERIEL CONTROL
TR: AFI 23-302; AFMAN
23-110 Vol 2, PT13; AFCSM
24-1; Supply Publication
FEDLOG
6.1. Federal Supply System                                                                                 -            B              -
6.2. Determine Supply
Requirements
6.2.1. Bench Stock                                                                                         -            B              -
6.2.2. Adjusted Stock Level                                                                                -            B              -
6.2.3. Working Stock                                                                                       -            B              -
6.2.4. Repair Cycle Support                                                                                -            B              -
6.3. Supply Management                                                                                     -            B              -
Products/Listings
6.4. Management Of Tires                                                                                   -            B              -
And Batteries
6.5. Initiate Requisitions/AF      5                                                                       -            b              -
Form 2005
6.6. Mission Impaired
Capability Waiting Parts
(MICAP) Process
TR: AFMAN 23-110
6.6.1. Create MICAP Due-Out        5                                                                       -            b              -
6.6.2. Delete MICAP Due-Out        5                                                                       -            b              -
6.6.3. Determine Parts             5                                                                       -            b              -
Requisition Priorities (SRD,
FAD, UJC)
6.7. Repair Cycle Process
TR: AFMAN 23-110; TOs
00-20-3, 00-35D-54; AFI 23-
302
6.7.1. Review Repair Cycle         5                                                                       -            b              -
Asset Management Listing
(D23)
                                                                      55
                                                                   STS 2T3X7

1. Tasks, Knowledge And         2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Technical References            Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                War-
                                time        A              B            C          D          E           A             B             C
                                Tasks                                                                   3-Skill       5-Skill       7-Skill
                                (See                                                                    Level         Level         Level
                                Note)      Tng           Tng         Trainee    Trainer     Cert
                                           Start        Compl        Initials   Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course
6.7.2. Perform Due-In From         5                                                                      -             b             -
Maintenance (DIFM)
Reconciliation
6.7.3. Process DIFM Status         5                                                                       -            b              -
Codes
6.7.4. Turn-In Repair Cycle        5                                                                       -            b              -
6.8. Turn-In Process
TR: AFMAN 23-110, AFI 23-
302
6.8.1.                                                                                                     -            B              -
Consumables/Expendables
Turn-in
6.9. Process Inquiries
TR: AFMAN 23-110, AFI
23-302, ES-S User's Guide
6.9.1. Process Consolidated        5                                                                       -            b              -
Transaction History (CTH)
6.9.2. Process Discoverer          5                                                                       -            b              -
Queries
7. PRODUCTION
CONTROL AND
WORKLOAD
SCHEDULING
TR: AFI 23-302; AFCSM
24-1
7.1 Perform Scheduled
Maintenance
7.1.1 Scheduled/Special/           5                                                                      b             b              -
Concurrent Inspections
7.1.2 TCTOs/Service                5                                                                      b             b              -
Bulletins/Manufacturer’s
Recalls/One-Time Inspections
7.1.3 Develop Long Range           7                                                                      a             b              -
Scheduled Maintenance Plan
7.1.4 Mileage Estimator            5                                                                      b             b              -
7.2. Control Work Flow             5                                                                      b             b              -
7.3. Vehicle Status Control
Board
7.3.1. Coordinate Status                                                                                   -             -             -
7.3.2. Update Vehicle/             5                                                                      2b             -             -
Equipment Status
7.3.3. Perform/Reconcile Yard      5                                                                       -            b              -
Check
7.3.4. Prepare Control Board       5                                                                      2b             -             -
Vehicle Status Reports
7.4. Coordinate Mobile                                                                                     -             -
Maintenance
8. DATA COLLECTION
AND PROCESSING
TR: AFI 23-302; AFMAN
23-110; AFCSM 24-1; TOs
00-35D-54, 36-1-191; VMIF
8.1. Annotate Source
Documents
8.1.1. Vehicle/Equipment           5                                                                      2b             -             -
Work Orders
8.1.2. Operator Inspection         5                                                                      2b             -             -
Guide
8.1.3. Delayed                     5                                                                      2b             -             -
Maintenance/NMCS
8.1.4. Labor Hour Accounting       5                                                                      2b             -             -
8.1.5. Assign System Codes         5                                                                      1a             -             -

                                                                      56
                                                                    STS 2T3X7

1. Tasks, Knowledge And          2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Technical References             Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                 War-
                                 time        A              B            C          D          E           A             B             C
                                 Tasks                                                                   3-Skill       5-Skill       7-Skill
                                 (See                                                                    Level         Level         Level
                                 Note)      Tng           Tng         Trainee    Trainer     Cert
                                            Start        Compl        Initials   Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course
8.2. Process OLVIMS
Parameters
8.2.1. Begin Day/ End of Day        5                                                                      2b             -             -
8.2.2. New Month                    5                                                                      2b             -             -
8.2.3. End of Month                 5                                                                      2b             -             -
8.2.4. OLVIMS Partial                                                                                       -             -             -
Archive (Sneaker LAN)
8.3.Establish/Process/Update
Records for OLVIMS /
Logistics Installation
Management Systems-
Enterprise View Vehicle
View (LIMS-EV VV)
8.3.1. Vehicle Receipts
8.3.1.1. Load OLVIMS                5                                                                      2b            b              -
Vehicle/Equipment Record
8.3.1.2. LIMS-EV VV
Vehicle Receipt
8.3.1.2.1 Registered Assets         5                                                                      2b            b              -
8.3.1.2.2 Lease Assets              5                                                                      2b            b              -
8.3.2. Vehicle Rotations
8.3.2.1. OLVIMS                     5                                                                      2b            b              -
Vehicle/Equipment
8.3.2.2. LIMS-EV VV                 5                                                                      2b            b              -
Vehicle/Equipment
8.3.3. Vehicle
Shipment/DRMS
8.3.3.1. OLVIMS                     5                                                                      2b            b              -
Vehicle/Equipment
8.3.3.2. LIMS-EV -VV                5                                                                      2b            b              -
Vehicle Shipment
8.3.3.3. LIMS-EV VV DRMS            5                                                                      2b            b              -
Vehicles
8.3.4. OLVIMS Master
Records
8.3.4.1. Vehicle/Equipment
8.3.4.1.1. Vehicle Add-On           5                                                                      2b            b              -
Equivalents
8.3.4.2. Employee                   5                                                                      2b            b              -
8.3.4.3. High Cost Bench            5                                                                       -            b              -
Stock
8.3.4.4. Organizational Code                                                                                -             -             -
Table
8.3.4.5. Work Center Table                                                                                  -             -             -
8.4. Process Daily Inputs
8.4.1. Work Orders
8.4.1.1 Work Order (W/O)            5                                                                      2b             -             -
Knowledge
8.4.1.2. W/O Unscheduled            5                                                                      2b             -             -
8.4.1.3. W/O Scheduled              5                                                                      2b             -             -
8.4.1.4. W/O Accident, Abuse        5                                                                      2b             -             -
8.4.1.5. W/O Warranty               5                                                                      2b             -             -
8.4.1.6 W/O Service Bulletin,       5                                                                      2b             -             -
TCTOTCTO
8.4.1.7. W/O 4000/5000              5                                                                      2b             -             -
8.4.1.8. W/O Contract               5                                                                      2b             -             -
8.4.1.9 W/O Delay                   5                                                                      2b             -             -
8.4.1.10. W/O VDP, On/Off           5                                                                      2b             -             -
8.4.2. Commercial Parts Issues      5                                                                      2b             -             -
8.4.3. Delayed                      5                                                                      2b             -             -
Maintenance/NMCS
8.4.4. Labor Hour Accounting        5                                                                      2b             -             -

                                                                       57
                                                                   STS 2T3X7

1. Tasks, Knowledge And         2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Technical References            Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                War-
                                time        A              B            C          D          E           A             B             C
                                Tasks                                                                   3-Skill       5-Skill       7-Skill
                                (See                                                                    Level         Level         Level
                                Note)      Tng           Tng         Trainee    Trainer     Cert
                                           Start        Compl        Initials   Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course
8.4.5. Parts Transactions          5                                                                     2b             -             -
8.4.6. Errors/Rejects (“TD”)       5                                                                     2b             -             -
8.4.7. Fuel Transactions           5                                                                     2b             -             -
8.4.8. Validate/Edit               5                                                                     2b             -             -
Input/Output (PCN-5)
8.4.9. Back-Up/Restore Data        5                                                                      2b            b              -
8.4.10. Generate Output            5                                                                      2b            -              -
Products
8.5. OLVIMS Monthly
Processing Actions
8.5.1. Generate Monthly            5                                                                       -            b              -
Products
8.5.2. Refundable/                 7                                                                       -            b              b
Reimbursement List
8.6. OLVIMS Quarterly
Processing Actions
8.6.1. Enter Quarterly             5                                                                       -            b              -
Corrections
8.6.2. Generate Quarterly          5                                                                       -            b              -
Products
8.7. Management Software
8.7.1. Load OLVIMS                 5                                                                       -            b              -
8.7.2. Update OLVIMS               5                                                                       -            b              -
Release
8.7.3. Recover OLVIMS                                                                                      -            B              -
System
8.8. Limited Technical
Inspection (LTI)
8.8.1. Fundamentals                                                                                       B             B              -
8.8.2. Prepare/Update LTI          5                                                                      2b            -              -
8.8.3. Determine Vehicle           5                                                                       -            -              -
Repair Authority
8.8.4 Process LTI                  5                                                                       -             -             -
8.9. Data Systems
Reconciliation
8.9.1. Vehicle Management          7                                                                       -            b              -
Index File
9. DATA
INTERPRETATION,
ANALYSIS, AND
PRESENTATION
TR: AFIs 23-302; AFP 36-
2241; AFCSM 24-1;
Commercial Manuals
9.1. Extract Data From
Vehicle Management
Products
9.1.1. MC Report                   5                                                                      2b            b              -
9.1.2. Delayed Maintenance         5                                                                      2b            b              -
9.1.3. Scheduled Maintenance       5                                                                      2b            b              -
Report
9.1.4. Master Lists                5                                                                      2b            b              -
9.1.5. Work Order Master List      5                                                                      2b            b              -
9.1.6. Excessive Labor Hour        7                                                                       -            b              -
Report/Accident, Abuse and
Uneconomical Repair Work
Orders
9.1.7. Monthly Listings            7                                                                       -            b             2b
9.1.8. Quarterly Listing           7                                                                       -            b             2b
9.1.9. Inquiries                   7                                                                       -            -              -
9.1.10. “Canned” Retrievals        7                                                                       -            -              -

                                                                      58
                                                                    STS 2T3X7

1. Tasks, Knowledge And          2.      3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
Technical References             Core/                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                 War-
                                 time        A              B            C          D          E           A             B             C
                                 Tasks                                                                   3-Skill       5-Skill       7-Skill
                                 (See                                                                    Level         Level         Level
                                 Note)      Tng           Tng         Trainee    Trainer     Cert
                                            Start        Compl        Initials   Initials   Initials     Course         CDC          Course
9.1.11. Develop Retrievals          7                                                                      -             -
9.1.12. Vehicle Authorization       5                                                                     2b             b             2b
List (VAL)
9.1.13. Base Master Vehicle         5                                                                      2b             -            2b
Authorized/Assigned Report
9.1.14. Vehicle Allocation/         7                                                                      2b            b              -
Due-In Listing
9.1.15. Vehicle Custodian           5                                                                      2b            b             2b
Authorization/Custody Receipt
Listing (CA/CRL)
9.1.16. Annual Vehicle Buy                                                                                  -             -             -
Plan/Program
9.2. Analyze Vehicle
Management Products
9.2.1. Fundamentals of                                                                                      -            B              -
Analysis Process
9.2.2. Control Charts                                                                                       -            -              -
9.2.3. Vehicle Utilization          7                                                                       -            b             2b
9.2.4. Vehicle Rotation             7                                                                                    b             2b
9.2.5. Vehicle Authorization        7                                                                       -            -              -
Analysis
9.3. Presentations
9.3.1. Develop Visual Media                                                                                 -            b              -
9.3.2. Write Narratives to                                                                                  -            b              -
Support Studies/Analysis
10. SUPERVISION AND
TRAINING                  TR:
AFIs 23-302, 36-2201, 38-101,
36-2101; AFPs 36-2241, 36-
2618; ETCA
10.1. Supervision
10.1.1. Supervise Personnel                                                                                 -             -             -
10.1.2. Evaluate Personnel                                                                                  -             -             -
Performance
10.2. Training
10.2.1. Evaluate/Resolve                                                                                    -             -             -
Personnel Training Needs
10.2.2. Prepare Job                                                                                         -             -             -
Qualification Standards
10.2.3. Motivate Trainers And                                                                               -             -             -
Trainees
10.2.4. Counsel Trainers And                                                                                -             -             -
Trainees On Training Progress
10.3. Monitor Effectiveness
Of:
10.3.1. Career Knowledge                                                                                    -             -             -
Upgrade Training
10.3.2. Job Proficiency                                                                                     -             -             -
Upgrade Training
10.3.3. Qualification Training                                                                              -             -             -
10.4. Maintain Training             7                                                                       -             -             -
Records
10.5 Evaluate Effectiveness of                                                                              -             -             -
Training Programs
10.6 Recommend Personnel                                                                                    -             -             -
for Training TR: ETCA
11. WRM Vehicle Program
TR: AFI 25-101, TO 36-1-
191
11.1. Fundamentals                                                                                          -            B             B
11.2. Implement                     7                                                                       -            b             b


                                                                       59
SECTION B, Course Objective List. This area is reserved.

SECTION C, Support Material. There are currently no support material requirements. This
area is reserved.

SECTION D, Training Course Index. See the following list of available courses for
broadening and expanding career field knowledge. Refer to Education and Training Course
Announcements (ETCA) at website https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ for information on all courses
listed in this index

AIR FORCE IN-RESIDENCE COURSES

Course Number        Course Title                                                  Location
*L9AQN2T331 00AA     Inter-service Mechanic Apprentice Course(s).                  Port Hueneme CA
*L9AQN2T332A00AA     *These courses are the Air Force/Navy “common core”
*L9AQN2T332C00AA     “qualifying courses for the 3 level”
                     AFSC awarding courses.
L3ABP2T331 00AA      Vehicle and Equipment Maintenance Apprentice                  Port Hueneme CA
L3ABP2T332A00AA      Specialized Vehicle Maintenance Apprentice, Fire Trucks       Port Hueneme CA
L3ABP2T332C00AA      Specialized Vehicle Maintenance Apprentice, MHE               Port Hueneme CA
L3ABP2T337 00AA      Vehicle Management and Analysis Apprentice                    Port Hueneme CA
L3AZP2T390 00AA      Vehicle Management Superintendent                             Port Hueneme CA
L3AZP2T351 00AA      Diesel Engine Maintenance                                     Port Hueneme CA
L3AZP2T352A19PA      A/S32P-19 Fire Truck O/I Maintenance                          Port Hueneme CA
L3AZP2T352A23PA      A/S32P-23 Fire Truck O/I Maintenance                          Port Hueneme CA
L3AZP2T351 02AA      Automatic Transmission/Transaxle/Transfer Case Maintenance    Port Hueneme CA
L3AZP2T351 03AA      Steering, Suspension, Wheel Alignment, and Anti-Lock Brakes   Port Hueneme CA
L3AZP2T351 05AA      Vehicle Diagnostic Test Equipment and Electrical Systems      Port Hueneme CA

AIR FORCE MOBILE TRAINING TEAM (MTT) COURSES:

Course Number        Course Title
L7AZT2T352A19PA      A/S 32P-19 Fire Truck O/I Maintenance
L7AZT2T352A23PA      A/S 32P-23 Fire Truck O/I Maintenance
L7AZT2T352C25KA      FMC Halvorsen 25K Cargo Loader Maintenance
L7AZT2T352C60KA      Systems and Electronics Inc. 60K Cargo Loader Maintenance
L7AZT2T351 00AA      Vehicle Air Conditioning Systems
L7AZT2T351 01AA      Condor Deicing Platform Maintenance
L7AZT2T351 02AA      Global Deicer Maintenance

MAJCOM COURSES: As determined by the MAJCOMs.

Course Number        Course Title                              MAJCOM
365PAC2T35X-001      Automotive Brake Systems                  PACAF
365PAC2T35X-002      Diagnostic Test Equipment                 PACAF
365PAC2T35X-003      Automatic Transmissions                   PACAF
365PAC2T35X-004      Quality Assurance Fundamentals            PACAF
365PAC2T35X-006      Automotive Electrical System Principles   PACAF
365PAC2T35X-007      Automotive Air Conditioning               PACAF
365PAC2T35X-008      Diesel Engine Computer Mgmt System        PACAF
365PAC2T35X-009      War Readiness Materiel Vehicle Storage    PACAF



                                                 60
365PAC 2T35X-010        Vehicle Mgt Craftsman Supervisor            PACAF
365PAC2T35X-011         Automotive Computer Systems                 PACAF
365PAC2T35X-012         MRAP ATV (MATV) Field Level Maint.          PACAF
365PAC2T35X-013         Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Maint.      PACAF
365PAC2T35X-014         Welding Fundamentals                        PACAF
365PAC2T35X-015         Vehicle Mgt Journeyman Supervisor           PACAF
3C5AFE2T35X 001         Brakes/Suspension Systems                   USAFE
3C5AFE2T35X 003         Automatic Transmissions Course              USAFE
3C5AFE2T35X 006         Automotive Electrical System PRC            USAFE
3C5AFE2T35X 007         Automotive Air Conditioning                 USAFE
3C5AFE2T35X 008         Diesel Engine Fuel Systems                  USAFE
3C5AFE2T35X 010         Vehicle Maintenance Supervisor Course       USAFE
3C5AFE2T35X 011         Computerized Engine Controls                USAFE
3C5AFE2T3X7 004         VM&A Fleet Management Functions             USAFE
 3C5AFE2T3X7 005        VM&A Analysis/Workload Control              USAFE

OTHER GENERAL COURSES:
Course Number           Course Title
L6ACW2T370 00AA         Vehicle Management Craftsman Course

SECTION E, MAJCOM Unique Requirements.

Course Title                                                                MAJCOM
Lightweight Tactical All Terrain Vehicle (LTATV) Mechanics Course           AFSOC
Non-Standard Commercial Vehicle (NSCV) Mechanics Course                     AFSOC
All Terrain Vehicle (ATV) Mechanics Course                                  AFSOC




                                                    61
