DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                        CFETP 14NX
Headquarters, US Air Force                                                           Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1040                                                         13 February 2013




                        AFSC 14NX
                  INTELLIGENCE OFFICER




                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                     AND TRAINING PLAN

                       CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                           INTELLIGENCE OFFICER SPECIALTY
                                       AFSC 14NX

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                                       CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                           INTELLIGENCE OFFICER SPECIALTY
                                                       AFSC 14NX


                                                                        Table of Contents


Part I ...................................................................................................................................................................... 3 

        Preface.............................................................................................................................................................3

        Abbreviations and Terms Explained. ..............................................................................................................4 

        Section A—General Information ....................................................................................................................8 

        Section B—Career Field Progression and Information ..................................................................................9 

        Section C—Proficiency Training Requirements ..........................................................................................39 

        Section D—Resource Constraints.................................................................................................................42 

Part II ................................................................................................................................................................... 46 

        Section A—Course Training Standard .........................................................................................................46 

        Section B—Training Course Index ...............................................................................................................47 

        Section C—Support Material ........................................................................................................................52 

        Section D—MAJCOM Unique Requirements..............................................................................................52 

    




__________________________________________________________________________________________
OPR: HQ USAF/A2DF
Certified by: AF/A2DF (Col Monica E. Midgette)
Approved by: AF/A2 (Lt Gen Larry D. James)
Supersedes: CFETP 14NX, 15 Jan 02
Number of Printed Pages: 59


                                                                                                                                                                   2
Part I

Preface
1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive document that identifies life-
cycle education and training requirements, training support resources, and minimum requirements for the
intelligence officer specialty. The CFETP will provide a clear career path to success and will instill rigor in all
aspects of career field training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts; supervisors plan, manage, and control training within the specialty using
both parts of the plan.

   2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains how
   everyone will use the plan; Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
   responsibilities, training strategies, and career path; Section C associates each level with specialty
   qualifications (knowledge, education, training, experience, and other mandatory requirements); and Section
   D indicates resource constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities.

   2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Course Training Standard (CTS), which identifies
   qualitative and qualification training requirements, available formal or correspondence courses, and Air
   Force Specialty (AFS) proficiency levels. Section B provides a training course index supervisors can use to
   determine resources available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional courses;
   Section C identifies available support materials. Section D identifies MAJCOM-unique training requirements
   supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs. At unit
   level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the
   overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive effective and efficient
training at the appropriate points in their career. This plan will enable us to train today's intelligence
professionals for tomorrow's challenges.




                                                                                                           3
Abbreviations And Terms Explained.
Advanced Academic Degree (AAD). AF desires AAD education to prepare officer and enlisted personnel to
perform the duties of a specifically designated position, to meet the needs of a particular career field or to meet
AF mission requirements. The AF desires advanced academic education for civilians to prepare them for
leadership positions and to meet current and future AF mission requirements.

Advanced Skills Training. Formal course that provides individuals who are proficient in one or more
positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills and knowledge to enhance their expertise in
the career field.

Advanced Distributed Learning (ADL). Evolution of distributed learning (distance learning) that emphasizes
collaboration on standards-based versions of reusable objects, networks, and learning management systems, yet may
include some legacy methods and media. ADL leverages the full power of computers, information, and
communication technologies through the use of common standards in order to provide learning that can be tailored
to individual needs and delivered anywhere-anytime. ADL also includes establishing an interoperable “computer-
managed instruction” environment that supports the needs of developers, learners, instructors, administrators,
managers, and family. ADL encompasses all the methodologies mentioned above, and in addition, includes ongoing
and expected improvements in learning methods.

Bridge Course. A formal or informal course of training that allows the individual to expand his/her knowledge in
another area of expertise.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive core training document
that identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements; training support resources, and minimum core
task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give personnel a clear path and instill a sense of industry
in career field training.

Career Field Manager (CFM). AF focal point for the designated career field within a functional community.
Serves as the primary advocate for the career field, addressing issues and coordinating functional concerns across
various staffs. Responsible for the career field policy and guidance. Must be appointed by the FM and hold the grade
of Colonel/GS-15 (or equivalent) for officer and DAF civilian specialties, and the grade of Chief Master Sergeant for
enlisted Airmen.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual‘s ability to perform a task to required standards. Guidance for
intelligence personnel certifications are supplemented with AFI 14-202, Vol 1-3.

Competencies. The observable or measurable knowledge, skills, abilities, behaviors, and other characteristics
needed to perform a type or work or function.

Continuum of Learning (CoL). Career-long process of individual development where challenging
experiences are combined with education and training through a common taxonomy to produce Airmen who
possess the tactical expertise, operational competence, and strategic vision to lead and execute the full spectrum
of Air Force missions.

Core Tasks. Tasks the Air Force Career Field Managers (CFM) identify as minimum qualification
requirements for everyone within an AFSC, regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a
particular skill level or in general across the AFSC.

Course Training Standard (CTS). Training standard that identifies the training members will receive in a
specific course.

                                                                                                             4
Development Team (DT). Provide oversight of officer and civilian personnel development to meet both
functional and Air Force corporate leadership requirements.

Distributed Learning. Structured learning mediated with technology that does not require the physical
presence of the instructor. Distributed learning models can be used in combination with other forms of
instruction or it can be used to create wholly virtual classrooms.

Education. Process of imparting general bodies of knowledge and habits of mind applicable to a broad
spectrum of endeavors to intellectually prepare individuals to deal with dynamic environments and solve ill-
defined problems by using critical thought and reasoned judgment. Education programs prepare Airmen to
anticipate and successfully meet challenges across the range of military operations and build a professional
corps. Further, they positively impact both recruitment and retention efforts.

Experience. Active participation/involvement in positions, events, or activities leading to the accumulation of
knowledge or skill that can be utilized to meet mission requirements.

Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA). Contains specific MAJCOM procedures, fund cite
instructions, reporting instructions, and listings for those formal courses conducted or managed by the
MAJCOMs or field operating agencies (FOAs). The ETCA contains courses conducted or administered by the
AF and reserve forces and serves as a reference for the AF, DoD, other military services, government agencies,
and security assistance programs.

Force Development (FD). A deliberate process of preparing Airmen through the CoL with the required
competencies to meet the challenges of current and future operating environments. Institutional development
generally results in leadership, management, and warrior ethos proficiency. Occupational development
generally results in flying and technical skill proficiency.

Force Development Construct. Direct, concise philosophy for linking the Airman’s perspective with defined
competencies and processes to prepare Airmen to successfully meet war fighter requirements. Development is
delivered through a repetitive process that involves the CoL.

Functional Competency. Occupational or functional competencies are the knowledge, skills, and abilities
related to specific career field duties. Each career field identifies the desired occupational competencies for its
members. These competencies are focused on building depth of functional experience.

Functional Area Managers (FAM). The individual accountable for the management and oversight of all
personnel and equipment within a specific functional area to support the operational planning and execution.
Responsibilities include, but are not limited to, developing and reviewing policy; developing, managing, and
maintaining UTCs; developing criteria for and monitoring readiness reporting; force posturing; and analysis. At
each level of responsibility (HAF, MAJCOM, Air Component, FOA, DRU, and Unit), the FAM should be the
most highly knowledgeable and experienced person within the functional area and have the widest range of
visibility over the functional area readiness and capability issues.

Future Years Defense Program (FYDP). The official service plan, effective with the submission of the
annual Biennial PPBE cycle, that summarizes SECDEF-approved programs for DoD. The FYDP projects
detailed resource requirements. During the PPBE process, the FYDP goes through two refinements until the
DoD budget is submitted as the President‘s Budget. Those refinements are the Service‘s POM and the Service‘s
Budget Estimate Submission (BES). The FYDP consists of the budget years plus the next four programming
years for the DoD. In even years there are a total of six years in the FYDP; in odd years there are a total of five
years in the FYDP. The last year of the FYDP is always an odd year.

                                                                                                           5
Institutional Competencies (ICs). Common taxonomy used to implement the CoL. These leadership
competencies are expected of all Airmen, throughout their careers, and will be the competencies needed to
operate successfully in the constantly changing environment in which they function.

Initial Qualification Training (IQT). IQT is training needed to qualify intelligence personnel for basic duties
in an assigned position for a specific MDS, weapons system, intelligence function or activity, without regard for
a unit’s specific mission.

Mission Qualification Training (MQT). MQT follows IQT and is training needed to qualify intelligence
personnel to perform their specific unit mission in an assigned position. AFI 14-202, the applicable AFI 14-
2(MDS)V1, and other relevant AFIs prescribe minimum MQT requirements.

Occupational Competencies. A set of competencies required of all Airmen within a specific workforce
category (a group of functions requiring similar work, i.e. Engineering). They describe technical/functional
skills, knowledge, abilities, behaviors, and other characteristics needed to perform that function’s mission
successfully.

Officer Initial Skills Training (IST). Provides skill sets required to be successful in awarded AFSC. Skill sets
range from technical skills, as in pilot and navigator, to managerial skills. Officer initial skills training is not
AFSC awarding, but is used in conjunction with experience, OJT, and other supplemental training to provide
required skill sets. The Intelligence Officer Course at Goodfellow AFB functions as the IST for the 14N AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, “over-the-shoulder” training conducted to certify personnel in both
upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (position certification training).

Professional Tradecraft. Competencies required for employees in one or more occupations within a particular
mission category (e.g., collection operations).

Proficiency. The quality of having competence and a command of the fundamentals derived from practice and
familiarity. A measure of how well a task is completed. An individual is considered proficient when he/she can
perform tasks at the minimum acceptable levels of speed, accuracy, and safety.

Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-
job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade.

Program Objective Memorandum (POM). OSD directed, service developed document identifying money, people
and equipment requirements and allocations over a specified period of time (example FY03-07). POM funding
baselines are used to develop budget level detail for distribution of resources during budget execution years. The
POM is developed by individual services to set objectives for their forces, weapon systems and logistical support
within the fiscal limits assigned to them by the Secretary of Defense. Covers a six-year period.

Position Qualification Training (QT). Hands-on performance training designed to qualify an Airman in a
specific position. This training occurs both during and after upgrade training to maintain up-to-date
qualifications.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit to qualify, or
aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed, computer-based,
or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and equipment that
preclude desired training from being delivered.

                                                                                                            6
Specialty Training. The total training process used to qualify airmen in their assigned specialty.

Subject Matter Expertise. Competencies required for employees in one or more occupations within a mission
category, depending on a particular specialty or assignment. These competencies include substantive
knowledge areas, such as intelligence topics and target countries, certifications, and intelligence disciplines
(e.g., GEOINT, HUMINT, and SIGINT).

Supplemental Training. Formal training on techniques, procedures, knowledge, equipment, and technology
not suited for on-the-job training and not included in AFS upgrade or functional competency training.




                                                                                                       7
Section A—General Information
1. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for the 14N CFM, MAJCOM functional managers
(MFM), training management, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective and
efficient career field training program. The plan outlines the training individuals in the 14N AFS should receive
in order to develop and progress throughout their intelligence career. For purposes of this plan, training is
divided into continuing technical training, proficiency training, and supplemental training. Continuing technical
training develops the foundational breadth of knowledge across the entire career field, and occurs over the
course of an officer’s career. Proficiency training provides depth to an officer’s capability within specific
functional competencies, ranging from initial qualification to advanced skills training. Supplemental training
provides unique knowledge and abilities that are beyond the minimum required for upgrade and performance as
an intelligence officer.

   1.1. The purpose of the 14N CFETP is to develop, through individual career management and rigorous
   certification criteria, an intelligence professional community skilled in intelligence functional areas and
   competencies to achieve national security objectives. Collectively, intelligence professionals should be
   capable of creating new intelligence doctrine and concepts of operation, employing a wide range of
   intelligence platforms, integrating intelligence capabilities into the joint warfighting environment, and
   identifying intelligence requirements in the acquisition process. This requires critical thinking and problem-
   solving skills to deliver combat capability using increasingly complicated and dynamic ISR systems.

2. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive and cohesive
training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

   2.1. AETC training personnel will develop and revise formal resident, non-resident, field and exportable
   training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the CFETP. They
   will also work with the 14N CFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide
   the identified training.

   2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade, and
   proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, and contract training or exportable courses can satisfy
   identified requirements. MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFSC must be identified for inclusion
   into the plan.

   2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The list of
   courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The 14N CFM is the approval authority and will initiate a formal review of
this document every 24 months to ensure currency and accuracy. MAJCOM representatives and AETC training
personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part
II, they will eliminate duplicate training.




                                                                                                           8
Section B—Career Field Progression and Information
4. Specialty Description.

     4.1. Specialty Summary. Intelligence officers lead and perform intelligence activities across the full range
     of military operations supporting the Air Force’s Service Core Function (SCF) of Global Integrated
     Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR). A single ISR mission may cover multiple geographic
     commands, simultaneously collecting data to meet strategic, operational, and tactical requirements for
     national, joint, coalition or interagency partners in any combination.1       The 14N career field thus
     encompasses an incredibly diverse set of missions requiring an equally diverse breadth and depth of
     experience, training and education.

     4.2. Duties and Responsibilities. The Air Force conducts global integrated ISR operations through a five-
     phase cycle or process commonly known by its acronym, PCPAD: planning and direction; collection;
     processing and exploitation; analysis and production; and dissemination. Additionally, ISR professionals
     conduct assessment, evaluation and feedback throughout each phase.2 Air Force intelligence officers lead
     Airmen through the PCPAD process across four main areas, also known as functional competencies:
     Analysis, Collection, Integration, and Targeting. To execute these functional competencies intelligence
     officers utilize subject matter expertise in intelligence disciplines and professional tradecraft such as
     geospatial intelligence (GEOINT) or airborne ISR. In addition, intelligence officers integrate thoroughly
     within cross functional capabilities, missions and organizations such as space or force protection. Finally,
     intelligence officers perform ISR enterprise management/staff functions such as strategy or acquisition. The
     following paragraphs describe in detail these competencies, disciplines, tradecraft and staff functions.

     4.3. Functional Competencies. Functional (or occupational) competencies are the knowledge, skills,
     abilities and behaviors related to specific career field duties. Due to mission and skill set diversity, Air Force
     intelligence defies easy characterization (i.e., what do intelligence officers do?). However, for the purpose of
     career field management, Air Force intelligence activities can be grouped into the four main areas of
     Analysis, Collection, Integration, and Targeting. These ISR functional competencies do not constitute career
     ‘shreds’ or tracks, nor do they comprise a checklist of items to be mastered by each officer. Rather, the
     intelligence CFM and MFMs must ensure that as a career field, the force collectively maintain sufficient
     expertise in each of these competencies. They are a universal foundation which any 14N must acquire,
     maintain, and improve through a successful career. Each individual will truly master, at most, one
     competency in their career, but will also be proficient in the remaining competencies, to include
     understanding of at least one intelligence discipline. Each functional competency has supporting proficiency
     training courses beyond the 14N initial skills course, to include initial and advanced skills training as well as
     distributed learning.

        4.3.1. Analysis. Analysis is a cognitive activity, using tools and methods, to produce intelligence through
        discovery, assessment, explanation, and anticipation of all-source data in order to deliver products and
        services that support known or anticipated user requirements.3 During analysis, intelligence is produced
        from the information gathered by the collection capabilities assigned or attached to the joint force and
        from the refinement and compilation of intelligence received from subordinate units and external


1
    AFDD 2-0 Global Integrated ISR Operations, 6 Jan 12, pg 3.
2
    AFDD 2-0 Global Integrated ISR Operations, 6 Jan 12, pg 4.
3
    Adapted from JP 1-02 DoD Dictionary of Military Terms, 15 Oct 11, pg 22.

                                                                                                               9
        organizations. Relevant information is identified from collected data and reporting (discovery), and is
        then assessed and evaluated to provide baseline knowledge (assessment) and to support the explanation of
        events and activities (explanation). Analysis also serves to provide indications and warning, strategic
        warning, and long-range forecasts of national security threats (anticipation). All four of these activities
        coalesce in the products and services (delivery) that satisfy a commander’s PIRs or RFIs and support
        mission activities. Intelligence production for joint operations is accomplished by units and organizations
        at every echelon. At the regional, theater, and national levels, analysis is done primarily by all-source
        analysis that fuses information from all intelligence disciplines and activities. The product resulting from
        this multidiscipline fusion effort is known as all-source intelligence.4 All AF intelligence officers must
        maintain and exercise analytical capabilities and critical thinking skills wherever they are assigned. In
        terms of functional jobs and positions, however, AF analysts are employed at all echelons and across the
        service, joint, and national intelligence communities. Duty positions include functions at production
        units, AOC/ISRDs, the DCGS Analysis and Reporting Teams (DART), FOAs, CSAs, and other DoD and
        IC organizations.

        4.3.2. Collection. Collection is the acquisition of information and the provision of this information to
        processing elements.5 Collection comprises those activities related to the tasking, collecting, processing,
        exploitation and dissemination of data required to satisfy intelligence requirements. This functional
        competency can further be characterized by breaking it out into three interrelated yet indivisible
        components: collection management, collection operations and processing, exploitation and dissemination
        (PED).

           4.3.2.1. Collection Management. Collection management is the process of converting intelligence
           requirements into collection requirements, establishing priorities, tasking or coordinating with
           appropriate collection sources or agencies, monitoring results, and retasking, as required.6 It spans all
           aspects of global integrated ISR operations, including RFI and collection requirements management,
           ISR mission planning, tasking and assessment, and combat assessment (CA) activities. It requires
           extensive knowledge of the intelligence collection cycle and ISR platform capabilities and utilizes
           various national and theater specific collection management systems and databases. Although
           normally associated with the AOC/ISRD, duty positions include functions at MAJCOMs, COCOMs,
           CSAs, and other DoD and IC organizations.

           4.3.2.2. Collection Operations. Collection operations involve the direction, scheduling, and control of
           specific collection platforms, sensors, and HUMINT sources.7 It includes not only the physical
           operation of airborne systems (both manned and remotely piloted aircraft), space-based systems, cyber,
           non-traditional ISR and HUMINT sources, but also near real time (NRT) coordination and control.
           Global integrated ISR operations are domain and platform neutral. The focus is on meeting
           requirements and providing actionable intelligence to commanders.8 Therefore, collection operators
           not only require mastery of their own platforms, sensors and discipline, but must also be familiar with


4
    JP 2-0 Joint Intelligence, 22 Jun 07, pg I-15.
5
    JP 1-02 DoD Dictionary of Military Terms, 15 Oct 11, pg 55.
6
    JP 1-02 DoD Dictionary of Military Terms, 15 Oct 11, pg 55.
7
    JP 2-0 Joint Intelligence, 22 Jun 07, pg I-14.
8
    AFDD 2-0 Global Integrated ISR Operations, 6 Jan 12, pg 4.

                                                                                                            10
           those of others in order to maximize the combat multiplying effect of sensor cross-cueing. Duty
           positions include Airborne Intelligence Officer (AIO) and Information Integration Officer (IIO),
           HUMINT case officer, AOC Senior Intelligence Duty Officer (SIDO), ISR Tactical Controller (ITC),
           ISR Package Commander, and RPA Mission Intelligence Coordinator (MIC).

           4.3.2.3. Processing, Exploitation and Dissemination (PED). During processing, exploitation and
           dissemination, raw collection is converted into forms that can be readily used by commanders, decision
           makers at all levels, intelligence analysts and other consumers. PED includes first phase imagery
           exploitation, data conversion and correlation, document translation, foreign material exploitation
           (FME), and signal decryption, as well as reporting the results of these actions to analysis and
           production elements. Different types of data require different degrees of processing before they can be
           intelligible to the recipient. For instance, full motion video may be exploited and disseminated NRT
           via computer chat while SIGINT PED is increasingly automated. On the other hand, FME may require
           months of intensive effort before its full capabilities can be determined.9 The majority of Air Force
           PED is presented via the distributed, network-centric, global DCGS enterprise. Duty positions include
           DCGS mission crews, HUMINT document and media exploitation (DOMEX),10 and TECHINT
           functions at service and other DoD and IC organizations.11

        4.3.3. Integration. Integration is the application of all-source intelligence information to sustain plan,
        conduct and assess combat operations. It contextualizes intelligence for the mission at hand, and
        synthesizes it with the planning, training, and execution of tactical missions for achieving kinetic and non-
        kinetic effects.12 Integration requires extensive knowledge regarding the application of air, space and
        cyber power in general and the capabilities and limitations of the directly supported platform in particular.
        Integration functions include mission planning, aircrew threat training and certification, mission
        debriefing and reporting, and essential elements of information (EEI) and RFI management. Duty
        positions include direct support to combat flying wings, air control and special tactics squadrons, special
        operations forces (SOF), exercise and training units, and AOC/ISRD Unit Support.

        4.3.4. Targeting. Targeting is the process for selecting and prioritizing targets and matching appropriate
        actions to those targets to create specific desired effects that achieve objectives, taking account of
        operational requirements and capabilities. It is a central component of Air Force operational art, forming
        an essential link between strategy and the tactical application of air and space power. Targeting applies to
        targets, which are areas, complexes, installations, forces, equipment, capabilities, functions, individuals,
        groups, systems, or behaviors indentified for possible action to support the commander’s objectives,
        guidance and intent.13 Targeteers identify and nominate specific centers of gravity (COG) and high-value
        targets (HVT) that, if exploited in a systematic manner, will create the desired effects and support
        accomplishment of the commander’s objectives.14 Targeting functions include kinetic and non-kinetic


9
    JP 2-0 Joint Intelligence, 22 Jun 07, pg I-14.
10
     JP 2-0 Joint Intelligence, 22 Jun 07, pg B-4.
11
     JP 2-0 Joint Intelligence, 22 Jun 07, pg B-6.
12
     AFDD 2-0 Global Integrated ISR Operations, 6 Jan 12, pg 22.
13
     AFDD 3-60 Targeting, 28 Jul 11, pg 1.
14
     JP 2-0 Joint Intelligence, 22 Jun 07, pg I-18.

                                                                                                             11
        target development, weaponeering, precision point mensuration (PPM), force application, execution
        planning and combat assessment. Duty positions include functions at AOCs, target material production
        units, combat flying wings, AOCs, target material production units, MAJCOMs, COCOMs, CSAs, and
        other DoD and IC organizations.

     4.4. Subject Matter Expertise. Subject matter expertise refers to the demonstrable competency required by
     intelligence professionals to perform the duties within a given duty or functional competency. Subject
     matter expertise is gained through focused training, education and experience and is measured and
     documented through the training certification process. Subject matter expertise is further broken out
     between intelligence disciplines, professional tradecraft and cross functional capabilities.

        4.4.1. Intelligence Disciplines. Intelligence disciplines are well-defined areas of intelligence planning and
        direction, collection, processing, exploitation, analysis and production, and dissemination using a specific
        category of technical or human resources. These disciplines should be used in concert to complement and
        support analytical conclusions in an integrated, multi-disciplined approach to intelligence analysis.15
        They are largely defined by the collection sources and methods, in other words, the ‘how’ of ISR.

           4.4.1.1. Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT). GEOINT is the exploitation and analysis of imagery and
           geospatial information to describe, assess and visually depict physical features and geographically
           referenced activities on the Earth. Geospatial intelligence consists of imagery, imagery intelligence
           (IMINT), and geospatial information. In addition to optical literal imagery products such as a
           photograph or full-motion video (FMV), IMINT also includes non-optical, non-literal imagery
           products like infrared, radar, moving target indications (MTI), multispectral (MSI) and hyperspectral
           (HSI) imagery.16

           4.4.1.2. Human Intelligence (HUMINT). HUMINT is a category of intelligence derived from
           information collected and provided by human sources. This includes all forms of information gathered
           by humans, from direct reconnaissance and observation to the use of recruited sources and other
           indirect means. This discipline also makes extensive use of biometric data (e.g., fingerprints, iris
           scans, voice prints, facial/physical features collected on persons of interest. Examples of HUMINT
           include prisoner interrogations, developed, ‘walk-in’ and unwitting source operations, friendly forces
           and non-combatant debriefing, and document and media exploitation (DOMEX).17 HUMINT is
           perhaps the most specialized form of ISR performed by Air Force intelligence officers, requiring
           extensive training, language proficiency, and highly sensitive assignments worldwide. Interested
           officers and supervisors should refer to paragraph 8.5.4.2 for more information on HUMINT
           specialization.

           4.4.1.3. Measurement and Signature Intelligence (MASINT). MASINT is scientific and technical
           intelligence obtained by quantitative and qualitative analysis of data (metric, angle, spatial,
           wavelength, time dependence, modulation, plasma and hydro-magnetic) derived from specific
           technical sensors for the purpose of identifying any distinctive features associated with the target,
           source, emitter, or sender.18 Data is derived from specific technical sensors for the purpose of

15
     JP 2-0 Joint Intelligence, 22 Jun 07, pg I-5.
16
     AFDD 2-0 Global Integrated ISR Operations, 6 Jan 12, pg 34-35.
17
     JP 2-0 Joint Intelligence, 22 Jun 07, pg B-3.
18
     JP 2-0 Joint Intelligence, 22 Jun 07, pg B-5.
                                                                                                             12
           identifying any distinctive features (either reflected or emitted) associated with the target.19 Officers
           should be aware that the line between MASINT and advanced geospatial intelligence (AGI) products
           (like MSI and HSI) is blurry and is frequently defined more by the collection management process and
           sensor used than the data produced.

           4.4.1.4. Open Source (OSINT). OSINT is based on publicly available information (i.e., any member of
           the public could lawfully obtain the information by request or observation), as well as other
           unclassified information that has limited public distribution or access. Examples of OSINT include
           on-line official and draft documents, published and unpublished reference material, academic research,
           databases, commercial and noncommercial websites, “chat rooms,” web logs (“blogs”) and social
           networks. OSINT complements the other intelligence disciplines and can be used to fill gaps as well
           as provide accuracy and fidelity in classified information databases. OSINT is very useful during
           interagency collaboration and in multinational operations where OSINT-based intelligence information
           can be easily shared.20

           4.4.1.5. Signals Intelligence (SIGINT).     SIGINT is an intelligence discipline comprising either
           individually or in combination all communications intelligence (COMINT), electronic intelligence
           (ELINT), and foreign instrumentation signals intelligence (FISINT), however transmitted.
           Specifically, SIGINT uses intercepted electromagnetic emissions to provide information on the
           capabilities, intentions, formations, and locations of adversary forces.21 This discipline includes
           computer network exploitation (CNE).

           4.4.1.6. Technical Intelligence (TECHINT). TECHINT is derived from the exploitation of foreign
           materiel and scientific information. It begins with the acquisition of a foreign piece of equipment or
           foreign scientific/technological information. The item or information is then exploited by specialized,
           multi-Service collection and analysis teams. These TECHINT teams assess the capabilities and
           vulnerabilities of captured military materiel and provide detailed assessments of foreign technological
           threat capabilities, limitations, and vulnerabilities.22

        4.4.2. Professional Tradecraft. The Office of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) defines
        professional tradecraft as the competencies required for employees in one or more occupations within a
        particular mission category.23 When tailored to the Air Force, professional tradecraft refers to substantive
        knowledge areas that require specific combinations of training, education and experience. Tradecraft
        tends to focus more on objectives, products, and outcomes than on a discipline or domain; in other words,
        the ‘what’ of ISR rather than the ‘how.’ The following list is neither exhaustive nor comprehensive, but
        illustrates the types of tradecraft currently practiced by Air Force intelligence officers.

           4.4.2.1. Assessment. Assessment is any continuous process that measures the overall effectiveness of
           employing joint force capabilities during military operations. It is also a determination of the progress


19
     AFDD 2-0 Global Integrated ISR Operations, 6 Jan 12, pg 36.
20
     JP 2-0 Joint Intelligence, 22 Jun 07, pg B-5.
21
     AFDD 2-0 Global Integrated ISR Operations, 6 Jan 12, pg 35.
22
     JP 2-0 Joint Intelligence, 22 Jun 07, pg B-6.
23
     ICD 610 Competency Directories for the Intelligence Community Workforce, 1 Sep 08, pg 3.

                                                                                                            13
           toward accomplishing a task, creating a condition, or achieving an objective.24 Assessment is
           systematic and based upon carefully crafted measures of performance (MOP), measures of effect
           (MOE) and success indicators (SI). Significant examples of Air Force intelligence assessment are ISR
           assessment (how well our sensors perform as well as how well our products meet the customer’s
           requirements) and targeting assessments at the tactical, operational, campaign and national level
           (commonly, though incorrectly, referred to as battle damage assessment or BDA).25

           4.4.2.2. Counterproliferation. Counterproliferation encompasses those actions taken to defeat the
           threat and/or use of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) against the United States, our forces, friends,
           allies, and partners.26 The development and employment of WMD capabilities is a complex but
           identifiable process, with several generic activities that together constitute an adversary’s proliferation
           continuum. This proliferation continuum represents key decision points by an adversary to either
           possess or proliferate WMD. Proactive actions can be taken at every stage of the proliferation
           continuum to successfully combat the WMD proliferation.27

           4.4.2.3. Counterterrorism (CT). Counterterrorism comprises actions taken directly against terrorist
           networks and indirectly to influence and render global and regional environments inhospitable to
           terrorist networks.28 Accurate and timely intelligence is absolutely critical to counterterrorism,
           requiring the use of all intelligence disciplines. Due to the global nature of terrorism, USSOCOM is
           the fusion point for DoD synchronization of CT plans and establishing intelligence priorities against
           terrorist networks.29

           4.4.2.4. Current Intelligence. Current intelligence is the art of producing and fusing global integrated
           ISR products on the current situation in a particular area or on activities of specific groups. Topics
           include assessments on adversary intentions, capabilities and centers or gravity, environmental and
           social analysis of the operational area, and significant military and political events. Current intelligence
           is fundamentally all-source and places a premium on timely, accurate predictive or anticipatory
           analysis.30

           4.4.2.5. General Military Intelligence (GMI). GMI is intelligence concerning the 1) military
           capabilities of foreign countries or organizations or 2) topics affecting potential US or multinational
           military operations such as: armed forces capabilities, including order of battle (OB), organization,
           training, tactics, doctrine, and strategy; area, terrain and meteorological intelligence; military
           economics, material production and support industries; military and civilian transportation and
           communications systems; insurgency and terrorism; military-political-sociological intelligence;


24
     JP 1-02 DoD Dictionary of Military Terms, 15 Oct 11, pg 27.
25
     AFDD 3-60 Targeting, 28 Jul 11, pg 58-60.
26
     JP 1-02 DoD Dictionary of Military Terms, 15 Oct 11, pg 80.
27
     JP 3-40 Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction, 10 Jun 09, II-4.
28
     JP 3-26 Counterterrorism, 13 Nov 09, GL-6.
29
     JP 3-26 Counterterrorism, 13 Nov 09, V-1.
30
     AFDD 2-0 Global Integrated ISR Operations, 6 Jan 12, pg 47.

                                                                                                               14
           location, identification, and description of military-related installations; and escape and evasion.
           Examples of GMI products are military capabilities assessments, country studies and military related
           infrastructure assessments.31

           4.4.2.6. Indications and Warning (I&W). I&W refers to those intelligence activities intended to detect
           and report time-sensitive intelligence information on foreign developments that could involve a threat
           to the United States or allied and/or coalition military, political, or economic interests or to US citizens
           abroad. It includes forewarning of hostile actions or intentions against the United States, its activities,
           overseas forces, or allied and/or coalition nations.32 I&W products are derived from a worldwide
           system that analyzes and integrates information to assess the probability of hostile actions, and
           provides sufficient warning to preempt or counter their outcome.33

           4.4.2.7. Irregular Warfare (IW). Irregular warfare is a violent struggle among state and non-state
           actors for legitimacy and influence over the relevant populations. IW favors indirect and asymmetric
           approaches, though it may employ the full range of military and other capabilities in order to erode and
           adversary’s power, influence, and will.34 While often an enabler of other operations, intelligence may
           constitute the primary function of air, space, and cyberspace capabilities in IW. Intelligence personnel
           should think differently and be proactive in their collection, analysis, and planning by breaking from
           the traditional warfare mindset when engaged in IW. Cultural intelligence is of primary importance,
           which may require innovative collection and analysis methods. Intelligence personnel should provide
           decision makers with accurate, relevant, and timely intelligence pertaining to local civilian attitudes,
           culture, demographics, infrastructure, conflict dynamics, economics, religion, and social and political
           aspects of the operating environment. This intelligence helps US forces gain insight to the local
           populace, while helping identify enemy networks, their motivations, objectives, leadership, intentions,
           and locations.35

           4.4.2.8. Target Intelligence. Target intelligence portrays and locates the components of a target or
           target complex and indicates its vulnerability and relative importance.36 Global integrated ISR
           operations play a prominent role in the targeting cycle by detecting, locating, and identifying targets, as
           well as supporting mission planning and assessment. Additionally, successful employment of
           precision munitions against mobile targets often requires near-real time targeting information.37 Target
           intelligence products include target system analysis, weaponeering solutions, collateral damage
           estimates (CDE), mission planning materials and graphics, precision point mensuration (PPM) and pre-
           and post-strike imagery.



31
     AFDD 2-0 Global Integrated ISR Operations, 6 Jan 12, pg 47-48.
32
     JP 2-0 Joint Intelligence, 22 Jun 07, pg GL-10.
33
     AFDD 2-0 Global Integrated ISR Operations, 6 Jan 12, pg 46.
34
     AFDD 3-24 Irregular Warfare, 28 Jul 11, 1.
35
     AFDD 3-24 Irregular Warfare, 28 Jul 11, 31.
36
     JP 1-02 DoD Dictionary of Military Terms, 15 Oct 11, pg 336.
37
     AFDD 2-0 Global Integrated ISR Operations, 6 Jan 12, pg 48.

                                                                                                               15
        4.4.3. Cross Functional Capabilities. Cross functional capabilities are a collection of skills that include
        both the knowledge competency and task proficiency needed to produce a distinctive operational
        capability that is not entirely developed within the AF institutional and core utilization (AFSC) skill
        development plan. These capabilities are sourced by more than one, but not all, AFSCs then combined
        with institutional and occupational functions. Enduring and long standing, cross functional capabilities
        require a high level of competency and proficiency resulting from career-long deliberate training,
        education, and experience.38 Furthermore, a significant component of cross functional competency is the
        practical familiarity of working within a distinctive organizational structure and culture (for example,
        SOF). If the intelligence disciplines are the ‘how’ of ISR, and professional tradecraft the ‘what’, then
        cross functional capabilities can be seen as the ‘who.’

           4.4.3.1. Airborne ISR. Airborne ISR refers to the crews of surveillance and reconnaissance aircraft
           that collect, analyze and disseminate tactical, operational and strategic intelligence. It includes manned
           ISR aircraft such as the E-8C JSTARS, the RC-135V RIVET JOINT (RJ), and MC-12W LIBERTY as
           well as remotely piloted aircraft (RPA) like the RQ-4 GLOBAL HAWK that perform strictly ISR
           missions. Intelligence officers execute aircrew duties (X14N) such as Airborne Intel Officer (AIO)
           and Information Integration Officer (IIO). Non-aircrew positions provide intelligence integration such
           as mission planning and briefing/debriefing support.

              4.4.3.1.1. Multi-Role RPA. Multi-role RPAs like the MQ-1B PREDATOR and MQ-9A REAPER
              are considered a distinct sub-set of Airborne ISR because of their ability to perform close air
              support (CAS) and strike missions as well as ISR. Intelligence officers execute non-flying crew
              positions such as Mission Intelligence Coordinator (MIC). Non-crew positions provide intelligence
              integration such as mission planning and briefing/debriefing support.

           4.4.3.2. Air Operations Center (AOC). To plan, execute, and assess air and space power, the Air Force
           has developed a series of tailored air and space operations centers that can be networked to provide the
           full range of air and space power to a joint force. Because air and space forces are not monolithic in
           execution and force presentation – some are organized regionally, others functionally – the nature of
           AOCs has been tailored to better plan and execute this mix.39 Air Force ISR personnel are embedded
           throughout the AOC divisions and staff elements with the sole purpose of integrating global integrated
           ISR throughout the air, space, and cyberspace planning cycle and to support command and control of
           theater, air, space, and cyberspace forces. In general, assigned ISRD personnel provide tailored
           analytical and targeting products to each element, and manage intelligence requirements necessitating
           global integrated ISR operations.40

           4.4.3.3. Air Support Operations Center (ASOC). The ASOC is the element responsible for planning,
           coordination, control, and execution of air operations that directly support ground combat forces. They
           are normally located at Army corps level. The ASOC provides Air Force expertise to senior Army
           tactical echelons. It advises the ground commander on the capabilities and limitations of aerospace
           power, providing expertise on how and when air operations can enhance the effectiveness of ground
           operations. The ASOC also exercises operational control (OPCON) of subordinate tactical air control



38
     CDFA Capability Definition and FA Roles, draft 10 Nov 11, pg 1.
39
     AFDD 2 Operations and Organization, 3 Apr 07, pg 105.
40
     AFDD 2-0 Global Integrated ISR Operations, 6 Jan 12, pg 20.

                                                                                                             16
           parties (TACPs) aligned with ground force combat units subordinate to the corps.41 This category also
           incorporates the functions performed by Air Support Operations Squadrons (ASOS). Although
           normally associated with the close air support (CAS) mission, during the recent operations in
           Afghanistan and Iraq the ASOC increasingly performed ISR integration and coordination.

           4.4.3.4. Cyberspace. Cyberspace operations are the employment of cyber capabilities where the
           primary purpose is to achieve objectives in or through cyberspace.42 As with space, ISR professionals
           supporting cyberspace execute the functional competencies but tailor them to the unique military
           challenges of cyberspace. CNE and other cyber ISR as performed by Air Force intelligence personnel
           constitute the majority of activities in cyberspace, and are the key to effective Computer Network
           Defense (CND) and Computer Network Attack (CNA), as well as assessing the latter’s effectiveness.
           The director of the NSA has stated that cyber ISR accounts for roughly 95% of cyber operations, as the
           need to characterize the domain is fundamental to effective operations. Additionally, CYBERCOM
           has established a cyber team concept to execute operations. 60% of these teams are made up by cyber
           ISR personnel. Cyberspace is a man-made domain, and is therefore unlike the natural domains of air,
           land, and maritime. However, cyberspace nodes physically reside in all domains and activities in
           cyberspace can enable freedom of action for activities in the other domains, and activities in the other
           domains can create effects in and through cyberspace.43 For instance, a ship’s anchor dragging along
           the ocean floor can cut a cable, denying computer connectivity between network partners thousands of
           miles apart. Intel officers supporting cyberspace operations require unique technical proficiency, to
           include networking, operating systems, internet protocols, system architectures, and aspects of the
           electromagnetic spectrum. The Cyberspace Professional Development Program (CPDP) governs Air
           Force cyberspace force development.

           4.4.3.5. DCGS. The Air Force’s primary system for enabling distributed operations is the Air Force
           Distributed Common Ground System (DCGS), a network-centric, global enterprise. It is the weapon
           system which provides PED for most Air Force airborne IMINT and SIGINT collection, but takes
           advantage of AF, Joint, national, and coalition sensors in all domains and spans multiple intelligence
           (multi-INT) disciplines. Although the AF has chosen to designate specific DGS core sites for specific
           regions, a strength of the DCGS federation is that each DGS is networked and linked. If one DGS
           becomes task saturated or degraded another DGS can pick up the mission workload in near real time.
           Most importantly, the AF DCGS system is scalable and capable of both forward-based and globally
           distributed operations.44 Although considered an intelligence organization, the sheer scope,
           complexity, and diversity of specialties makes the DCGS a cross functional capability for the purposes
           of this CFETP and ISR force management.

           4.4.3.6. Flying Unit Level Support. Flying unit level support refers to the ‘classic’ integration
           functional competency of providing direct intelligence support to aircrew. It applies to the intelligence
           capability resident within a wing staff or operations group as well as to intelligence personnel assigned
           to operational squadrons. An important component of the cross-functional capability is the required
           knowledge of not just the technical aspects of the platform supported, but also the distinctive


41
     AFDD 3-1 Air Warfare, 28 Jul 11, pg 58.
42
     JP 1-02 DoD Dictionary of Military Terms, 15 Oct 11, pg 86.
43
     AFDD 3-12 Cyberspace Operations, 15 Jul 10, pg. 2.
44
     AFDD 2-0 Global Integrated ISR Operations, 6 Jan 12, pg 26-27.

                                                                                                            17
           institutional sub-culture. Such cultural fluency can be key to successful integration. While
           traditionally flying unit level support is further broken down into the sub-groups Combat Air Forces
           (CAF), Mobility Air Forces (MAF), and Global Strike, it also refers to air control, combat search and
           rescue (CSAR) and others.

           4.4.3.7. Force Protection (FP). Force protection intelligence (FPI) is analyzed, all-source information
           concerning threats to Department of Defense (DoD) missions, people or resources arising from
           terrorists, criminal activities, Foreign Intelligence and Security Services (FISS) and opposing military
           forces. FPI supports FP decisions and operations and is performed collaboratively by Intelligence,
           AFOSI and Security Forces personnel. Intelligence supports unit deployments, readiness training,
           mission planning and other mission execution functions. FP also incorporates ISR in direct support of
           security forces units and base defense.

           4.4.3.8. Information Operations (IO). Information operations are the integrated employment of the
           capabilities of influence operations, electronic warfare operations, and network warfare operations, in
           concert with specified integrated control enablers, to influence, disrupt, corrupt, or usurp adversarial
           human and automated decision making while protecting our own. They are integral to all Air Force
           operations and may support, or be supported by, air and space operations. The thorough integration of
           kinetic and nonkinetic air, space, and information capabilities provides the Air Force with a
           comprehensive set of tools to meet military threats.45 Effective IO actions require current, accurate,
           and highly specialized ISR information from all available sources.46

           4.4.3.9. Space. Space power is defined as the total strength of a nation’s capabilities to conduct and
           influence activities to, in, through and from space to achieve its objectives.47 In addition to leveraging
           space-based ISR sensors for collection, intelligence professionals supporting space operations execute
           the functional competencies but tailor them to the unique prism of the space domain. For instance,
           when conducting IPOE for space, defining the operational environment involves determining the
           orbital and terrestrial regimes in which space forces will be employed and space effects will be
           generated or realized. Similarly, space target development may include an adversary’s data links,
           booster storage facilities, satellites storage and assembly facilities, communications links, telemetry,
           tracking and commanding nodes, and launch sites and vehicles.48 Air Force space professional
           development is governed under AFI 36-3701 Space Professional Development Program.

           4.4.3.10. Special Operations Forces (SOF). SOF operations are intrinsically intelligence-intensive,
           both in planning and execution. Timely, detailed and global integrated ISR support is vital. In
           essence, intelligence requirements for SOF are similar to those of other components, though the degree
           of detail is dramatically increased. Furthermore, due to security classification and access constraints,
           SOF ISR support tends to rely on organic assets, is less centralized, and is more focused at the tactical
           level than ISR support for conventional forces.49


45
     AFDD 3-13 Information Operations, 28 July 11, pg 1.
46
     AFDD 3-13 Information Operations, 28 July 11, pg 41.
47
     JP 1-02 DoD Dictionary of Military Terms, 15 Oct 11, pg 313.
48
     AFDD 3-14 Space Operations, 28 Jul 11, pg 23-24.
49
     AFDD 2-0 Global Integrated ISR Operations, 6 Jan 12, pg 25.
                                                                                                             18
     4.5. Enterprise Management. Enterprise management refers to the organizations, functions and activities
     that enable and sustain global ISR. It subtly differs from the PCPAD phase ‘planning and direction’ in that
     instead of executing ISR, enterprise management trains, organizes and equips the ISR force as well as
     provides formal guidance such as policy and doctrine. Although normally associated with headquarters’
     ‘staff work’, enterprise management also refers to training, education, acquisition, research and development,
     and other such specialized support functions. Officers do not normally gain experience in an ISR functional
     competency or subject matter expertise, but rather leverage the experience and expertise they’ve already
     accrued. For instance, the ideal background for an officer responsible for the program management of the
     DCGS is Collection specialization and one or more DCGS assignments. Logically, the majority of enterprise
     management billets are for senior captains and FGOs. An officer should expect to serve in at least one
     enterprise management job during a 20 year career. The following list provides examples of enterprise
     management to include the organizational level at which they occur.

        4.5.1. Acquisition. Acquisition refers to the anticipation and delivery of material warfighter capabilities.
        Successful development of weapons systems, new operational concepts, and innovative combat
        techniques depends upon rapid, precise, accurate, and detailed intelligence, along with the infrastructure
        needed to provide it. Intelligence officers support effective research, development, fielding, employment,
        sustainment, and improvement of AF capabilities by identifying intelligence requirements,
        resolving/mitigating deficiencies, integrating intelligence, and providing needed intelligence data and
        infrastructure in a timely and secure manner. Effective acquisition intelligence support is relevant,
        iterative, tailored, and collaborative.50 Intelligence officers have an important and expanding role in
        assisting the acquisition process by characterizing the emerging threat environment. The great
        innovations in ISR over the past decade were enabled by smart ISR officers partnering with the
        acquisition community. Most acquisition billets reside within Air Force Material Command.

        4.5.2. Career Broadening. Career broadening refers to intelligence officers performing duties that are not
        directly related to ISR functional competencies or enterprise management. Not all career broadening
        assignments are equal. Some are highly selective, such as the Regional Affairs Specialist (RAS) program.
        Others (such as being a flying ops group exec) are not separate assignments at all, but are instead
        broadening opportunities within a traditional 14N assignment. Many officers find career broadening
        personally and professionally rewarding, but officers should keep in mind that the experience gained is at
        the expense of their core AFSC.

        4.5.3. Doctrine. The fundamental principles by which the military forces or elements thereof guide their
        actions in support of national objectives. It is authoritative but requires judgment in application.51
        Doctrine is codified explicitly in published Joint and Air Force doctrine documents (such as AFDD 2-0
        Global ISR Operations) as well as implicitly throughout functional AF training, education, tactics,
        techniques, procedures and culture (for instance, the AFTTP 3-1 MDS series volumes). ISR doctrine
        billets can typically be found on AF and MAJCOM level staffs, Air University and the AF’s Centers of
        Excellence.52

        4.5.4. Education & Training. Education refers to the process of imparting general bodies of knowledge
        and habits of mind applicable to a broad spectrum of endeavors to intellectually prepare individuals to


50
     AFI 14-111 Intelligence Support to the Acquisition Life-Cycle. 18 May 12, pg 2-3.
51
     AFDD 2-0 Global Integrated ISR Operations, 6 Jan 12, pg 104.
52
     AFDD 2-0 Global Integrated ISR Operations, 6 Jan 12, pg 22.

                                                                                                            19
        deal with dynamic environments and solve ill-defined problems by using critical though and reasoned
        judgment. Training refers to a set of events or activities presented in a structured or planned manner
        through one or more media for the attainment and retention of skills, knowledge, and attitudes required to
        meet job performance requirements.53 For enterprise management purposes it refers not only to AETC
        student and instructor billets, but also to MAJCOM sponsored training instructors, unit level training
        managers, and those primarily involved with exercise support (such as Red or Green Flag).

        4.5.5. Financial Management. The Air Force requires commanders and managers to be responsible for
        the effective, efficient, and economical use of all resources. Intelligence officers assist in the planning
        and execution of AF budgets, typically as Program Element Monitors (PEM). A PEM is appointed for
        each Program Element (such as the DCGS or Training) and are responsible for the review, evaluation, and
        maintenance of all pertinent data on the programs contained in the PE. This includes the preparation of
        budgetary data, program advocacy, tracking milestones, justifying requirements and making financial
        adjustments. Financial management billets are normally found on the HQ USAF Air Staff.

        4.5.6. Human Capital/Force Management. Human capital refers to the organizational asset made up of
        the collective sum of the attributes, life experiences, knowledge, inventiveness, energy, and enthusiasm
        that people choose to invest in their work.54 Force management refers to the AF-wide guidance for
        management, policy, oversight and guidance for the education, training, and development of AF ISR
        professionals across the total force. Billets are typically found at the MAJCOMs and on HQ AF Air Staff
        as well as the AFPC 14N assignments team.

        4.5.7. Information Technology.         Information technology refers to the systems and associated
        infrastructure for the collection, processing, storage, transmission, display, dissemination, and disposition
        of information.55 Although normally associated with the communications career field, 14Ns play a pivotal
        role in ISR related information technology from a requirements standpoint. Billets are typically found at
        the MAJCOM and AF staff levels.

        4.5.8. Modeling & Simulation. Modeling and simulation refers to the use of models, including emulators,
        prototypes, simulators, and stimulators, either statically or over time, to develop data as a basis for
        making managerial or technical decisions. It is also the application of a standard, rigorous, structured
        methodology to create and validate a physical, mathematical, or otherwise logical representation of a
        system, entity, phenomenon, or process.56 Modeling and simulation is an emerging, dynamic capability
        that AF ISR is just now starting to embrace. Billets can be found on the HQ Air Force staff, at NASIC,
        and elsewhere within the greater IC.

        4.5.9. Policy. Policy refers to the legal and institutional underpinnings of the ISR enterprise. Examples
        include Title 10 and 50 (US Code) issues, intelligence oversight, and integration with the other services
        and the greater intelligence community. Billets typically are at the highest service, joint and interagency
        levels, to include policy advisors to senior governmental leaders.



53
     AFPD 36-26 Total Force Management, 27 Sep 11, pg 9-10.
54
     ITEB Consolidated Lexicon of Intelligence Learning, 15 Jul 09, pg 7.
55
     JP 1-02 DoD Dictionary of Military Terms, 15 Oct 11, pg 163.
56
     ITEB Consolidated Lexicon of Intelligence Learning, 15 Jul 09, pg 14.

                                                                                                             20
        4.5.10. Research & Technology. Research and technology refers to the development, testing and
        evaluation of ISR related systems and technology. It comprises everything from platforms (such as the
        MC-12W Liberty) to components (quick reaction capabilities [QRCs]), as well as the tactics, techniques
        and procedures on how best to employ them. Billets typically reside on MAJCOM and higher staffs as
        well as specific test and evaluation organizations.

        4.5.11. Security. Security refers to the measures taken by a military unit, activity, or installation to
        protect itself against all acts designed to, or which may, impair its effectiveness. In respect to classified
        matter or facilities, the condition that prevents unauthorized persons from having access to official
        information that is safeguarded in the interests of national security.57 In regards to enterprise management,
        security relates to those billets (such as squadron security manager) whose primary responsibility is for
        personnel and physical security.

        4.5.12. Strategy. Strategy is a prudent idea or set of ideas for employing the instruments of national
        power in a synchronized and integrated fashion to achieve theater, national, and/or multinational
        objectives.58 Specifically, ISR strategists develop, integrate, and promulgate Air Force ISR strategy in
        support of National Security Strategy, National Defense Strategy, National Military Strategy, and national
        intelligence community strategic direction. ISR strategy takes place within the AOC’s Strategy Division
        as well as headquarters’ staffs.

5. AFS Level Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the entry to the qualified level play
an important role in the AF’s ability to accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training
does his or her part to plan, manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this
part of the CFETP will ensure that each individual receives proper training and education at the appropriate
points in their career. Section C of this CFETP expands upon the following overview.

     5.1. Entry (14N1) Level. For entry into this specialty, an officer must meet the mandatory requirements
     listed in the specialty description in the 14N AFSC Air Force Officer Classification Directory (AFOCD).

     5.2. Intermediate (14N2) Level. For award of AFSC 14N2, officers must: (1) graduate from the Air Force
     Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Course (ISR 100), or receive an AFCFM waiver; (2) complete initial
     qualification training (IQT) and unit mission qualification training (MQT) for at least one ISR functional
     competency, conducted in accordance with AFI 14-202; (3) complete the distributed learning ISR
     Intermediate Skills Course (ISR 200); (3) complete a minimum of 12 months performing intelligence
     functions; (4) meet mandatory requirements listed in the specialty description in the AFOCD; and (5) be
     recommended by supervisor.

     5.3. Qualified (14N3) Level. For award of AFSC 14N3, officers must: (1) complete an Advanced Skills
     Training (AST) course or an IQT/MQT program within a second ISR functional competency; (2) complete
     ISR 300, either by distributed learning or by attending the ISR Master Skills Course; (3) accumulate a
     minimum of 6 years commissioned service experience performing intelligence functions*; (4) meet
     mandatory requirements listed in the specialty description in the AFOCD; and (5) be recommended by
     supervisor.




57
     JP 1-02 DoD Dictionary of Military Terms, 15 Oct 11, pg 300.
58
     JP 1-02 DoD Dictionary of Military Terms, 15 Oct 11, pg 323.

                                                                                                             21
        5.3.1. * If an officer’s 6 years of service were not exclusively performing intelligence functions, a
        postgraduate degree in a language, technical, or regionally focused degree; completion of the National
        Intelligence University MSSI program, or comparable in-residence course, may be submitted to the
        AFCFM for waiver to the “performing intelligence functions” requirement. A minimum of 6 years total
        commissioned service is still required.

     5.4. Staff (14N4) Level. To qualify for 4-qualification level, officers must: (1) have previously achieved at
     least 14N2 (2) be assigned to a staff position above wing level. The 4-qualification is billet dependent; an
     officer will revert back to his or her previous qualification level (2- or 3-) upon leaving the staff assignment.*

        5.4.1. * Although the 14N4 is termed a qualification level, there are no additional qualifications and not
        all positions above wing level are eligible to be 14N4 positions. Per AFI 36-2101, the xxx4 staff AFS
        code identifies an officer position above wing level specifically on the duty requirements (developing
        broad policies, plans, and procedures) of the role performed, not the fact that the authorization is on a staff
        above wing level.59

     5.5. Implications. AFS levels indicate an officer’s preparation to perform at a given level of proficiency and
     assume certain levels of responsibility. In order to be competitive for promotion and other opportunities,
     intelligence officers should progress through the AFS levels in accordance with the timeline outlined above.
     Officers should be able to achieve the 14N2 (intermediate) level by the time they leave their first operational
     intelligence assignment, and should achieve the 14N3 (qualified) level before meeting their first vector. The
     DT may factor qualified level attainment into vectoring and leadership board decisions. Additionally,
     officer’s not holding a 14N3 AFSC will be ineligible to screen for command.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass the
entire spectrum of training requirements for the intelligence career field. The spectrum includes a strategy for
when and how to meet the training requirements. Commanders and supervisors of Intelligence officers,
adhering to the CFETP requirements, ensure their officers receive the necessary training for mission
accomplishment as well as timely career progression. Given the extensive breadth of the intelligence career
field and perishable nature of the tradecraft and subject matter involved, a continuum of “just-in-time” training
is extensively utilized. This applies equally to PME, technical training, as well as intelligence proficiency
training.

     6.1. Continuing Technical Training (CTT) Requirements. Given the breadth of AF ISR, the development of
     an AF intelligence professional requires continuing effort to achieve a standard level of functional
     knowledge common across the entire career field. In the past, the only formal intelligence course required of
     all officers -- over their entire career -- was the Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Course. This CFETP
     introduces a true continuum of learning to the intelligence officer career field by establishing a career long
     series of distance and resident learning requirements. These courses cover the ISR functional competencies
     as well as ISR officer professional skills, appropriate to the rank, experience and level of responsibility of the
     students. Together they reflect the current, official baseline view of AF ISR and serve to ‘reblue’ our
     intelligence officer corps. This is why the Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) process reviews all
     CTT courses together, to ensure coherency and currency. AFSC skill upgrade requirements include
     completion of 100/200/300/400-level ISR courses, in addition to proficiency in ISR functional competencies.
     Additionally, attainment of the appropriate level of ISR CTT may be a pre-requisite for selectively hired
     positions and advanced training opportunities, as well as a significant consideration for the 14N
     Developmental Team.


59
     AFI 36-2101 Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 14 Jun 10, pg 64.

                                                                                                               22
6.1.1. Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Course (ISR 100). The ISR 100 course is the Intelligence Officer
Initial Skills Course. Course requirements are identified during the 14N U&TW IAW AFI 36-2201, with
the 17th Training Wing (AETC) at Goodfellow AFB being responsible for course development and
instruction. ISR 100 provides new personnel with an introduction to the breadth of AF Intelligence core
expertise and establishes the foundation they will need to develop the specific knowledge and skill sets
prerequisite for their development throughout their careers. All intelligence professionals will attend the
14N AFSC-awarding course (or receive an AFCFM waiver) prior to attending any other intelligence
training courses. Note: ARC members must attend the 14N AFSC-awarding course (or receive an
AFCFM waiver) within two years of assignment to a 14N billet

   6.1.1.1. AFSC Waiver Policy. Refer to AFI 36-2101 for current AFSC waiver policy.

6.1.2. Intelligence Intermediate Skills Course (ISR 200). ISR 200 course is a distance learning course. It
is an ISR intermediate skills course that focuses on the operational level of warfighting, integrating ISR
operations in air, space, cyberspace, and ground operations. Officers should complete ISR 200 between
the two and five year point of their careers. The intent is to provide post-initial skills training to CGOs to
better prepare them for the leadership roles and responsibilities they will assume as captains. Currently
under development, the course will consist of modules for each of the core functional competencies
(Analysis, Collection, Integration and Targeting) as well as one for officer professional development
(report writing, career management, etc). The course will be by distance learning with formal tests.
Officers will be afforded the opportunity to take a pre-test to ‘test out’ of the modules in which they
demonstrate the proper level of expertise. Block test scores will be recorded in the student’s records for
potential future use by supervisors and the DT. Enrolled ISR 200 students and graduates will also be
directly invited (via AFPC Robot email) to participate in virtual seminars (such as a VTC or WEBINAR).
Course instructional materials will be available for any officer (not just students) to use as a reference.
ISR 200 is not mandatory, although completion is required to progress to the 14N2 specialty qualification
level. Until ISR 200 is fully validated and available for use by the total force, it will not be considered a
necessary component for progression to the 14N2 level. The only waiver the AFCFM will grant for ISR
200 is to ‘grandfather’ those officers currently serving who never had the opportunity to take the course.

6.1.3. Intelligence Master Skills Course (ISR 300). ISR 300 is a combination distance and resident
course. It is an ISR advanced course that focuses on the strategic application of intelligence capabilities
across all domains. Officers should complete ISR 300 between the six and 10 year point in their careers.
The intent is to provide mid-career training to CGOs to prepare them for the leadership roles and
responsibilities they will assume as FGOs. The course will again cover the core functional competencies,
but from a more strategic level which includes the integration of ISR effects, strategy, policy, doctrine,
law and acquisition across the joint military community. Officer professional development will be
tailored to what a newly minted Major needs to know (budgeting, manpower, mentorship, etc). Officers
can complete ISR 300 either through a distance learning program identical to ISR 200, or by attending the
Intelligence Master Skills Course in residence. Whether through distance learning or in residence, the
terminal learning objectives, standards, and evaluations are the same. Enrolled ISR 300 students and
graduates will also be directly invited (via AFPC Robot email) to participate in virtual seminars (such as a
VTC or WEBINAR). ISR 300 is not mandatory, although completion is required to progress to the 14N3
specialty qualification level. Until ISR 300 as outlined above is fully validated and available for use by
the total force, it will not be considered a necessary component for progression to the 14N3 level. The
only waiver the AFCFM will grant for ISR 300 is to ‘grandfather’ those officers currently serving who
never had the opportunity to take the course.

6.1.4. Intelligence Senior Skills Course (ISR 400). ISR 400 is a combination distributed learning and
resident course, and constitutes the capstone of formal ISR CTT. It is an ISR senior leader course that

                                                                                                      23
        focuses on strategy, policy, and doctrine as well as senior officer professional development topics.
        Officers should complete ISR 400 between the 11 and 16 year point in their careers. The intent is to
        provide late-career training to FGOs to prepare them for the leadership roles and responsibilities they will
        assume at the O-5 and O-6 level (for example, participating as a member of the DT or promotion board).
        The course will again cover the core functional competencies, but from a senior, ‘big picture’ perspective.
        More time will be devoted to the officer professional development issues distinctive to senior Air Force
        officers. Officers can complete ISR 400 either through distance learning or by attending the Intelligence
        Senior Skills Course in residence (hosted by AF/A2D in the National Capitol Region). Whether through
        distance learning or in residence, the terminal learning objectives, standards, and evaluations are the same.
        Enrolled ISR 400 students will also be directed and graduates invited (via AFPC Robot email) to
        participate in virtual seminars (such as a VTC or WEBINAR). ISR 400 is not mandatory, although
        commands may make completion a local policy. There are no AFCFM waivers for ISR 400.

     6.2. Intelligence Personnel Training (IPT). While CTT focuses on establishing and maintaining a baseline
     proficiency for all intel officers in the four ISR functional competencies and officer professional
     development topics, IPT focuses on tailored training for specific jobs. The intelligence officer career field is
     of such diversity that few officers can achieve sufficient mastery of the ISR functional competencies to
     sustain them through an entire career. To address this challenge, the 14N CFETP utilizes a continuum of
     training where officers receive tailored and specific training for each assignment, often called “just-in-time”
     training. Officers will complete Initial Qualification Training (IQT) for each assignment, preferably enroute
     by attending the associated Intelligence Formal Training Unit (IFTU). Upon assuming duties at their new
     units, officers will complete local IQT (if not accomplished enroute) and then Mission Qualification Training
     (MQT). Many officers will later attend Advanced Skills Training (AST) in order to progress to a higher
     level of technical master in a specific functional competency. Part II, Section B lists the available IQT and
     AST formal courses and their corresponding ISR functional competencies. Supervisors should work with
     their MAJCOM functional managers to ensure they are making the appropriate training recommendations for
     their personnel, and proper proficiency training requirements are identified and available for required formal
     courses.

        6.2.1. Initial Qualification Training (IQT). IQT is training needed to qualify intelligence personnel for
        basic duties in an assigned position for a specific mission design series (MDS), weapons system,
        intelligence function or activity, without regard for a unit’s specific mission.60 Currently, IQT is
        accomplished through attendance at an IFTU, other formal training course, or by completion of an
        organization’s local IQT program in accordance with AFI 14-202v2 and the applicable AFI 14-
        2(MDS)v2. SIOs are responsible for ensuring each 14N under their mentorship accomplishes the
        proficiency training applicable to their specific assigned duties.

        6.2.2. Mission Qualification Training (MQT). MQT follows IQT and is training needed to qualify
        intelligence personnel to perform their specific unit mission in an assigned position. The applicable AFI
        12-2(MDS)v1 and other relevant AFIs prescribe minimum MQT requirements.61 Training certifications
        are duty position specific and are validated and documented through the Intelligence
        Standardization/Evaluation (Stan/Eval) Program IAW AFI 14-202v2 and AFI 14-2(MDS)v2.62



60
     AFI 14-202v1 Intelligence Training, 10 Mar 08, pg 5.
61
     AFI 14-202v1 Intelligence Training, 10 Mar 08, pg 5.
62
     AFI 14-202v2 Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 Mar 08, pg 4.

                                                                                                             24
        6.2.3. Advanced Skills Training (AST). Advanced Skills Training is necessary for intelligence officers to
        attain advanced proficiency and/or expertise in the ISR functional competencies, various mission areas,
        and weapon systems. AST attendance will typically be associated with a subsequent assignment in a
        particular functional competency. For instance, an officer who was a DCGS MOC as a lieutenant might
        go to the ISR Operators Course (IROC) as a Captain upon being assigned as an AOC Senior Intel Duty
        Officer (SIDO). The Weapons Instructor Course (WIC) at the USAF Weapons School is a particularly
        robust example of AST. Similarly to the IFTUs and unlike CTT, AST attendance is driven by manning
        and broader ISR force management requirements. Individual positions within a unit are coded with AST
        requirements, which are reflected in the formal requisitions submitted to AFPC. Some officers will attend
        one or more AST courses, while others may attend none. Paragraph 8.0 goes into more detail on career
        field specialization.

     6.3. Supplemental Training. Supplemental training consists of formal training and OJT on techniques,
     procedures, knowledge, equipment, and technology not included in AFS upgrade or functional competency
     training. Examples of supplemental training course include, but are not limited to, regional orientation
     courses, Anti-Terrorism/Force Protection Level II, SV-80 SERE, and the Counter Narcotics Analysis
     Course.

7. Education. Together with training and experience, education is one of the pillars of military professionalism,
particularly for Air Force intelligence officers. While the Air Force will provide some formal education, it is
usually only through highly competitive processes. Ultimately, it’s incumbent on the individual officer to
prioritize and manage their time, both on and off duty, to achieve his or her educational goals.

     7.1. Professional Military Education (PME). Air Force DE programs expand knowledge and increase
     understanding of the role of air, space and cyberspace power in times of peace and war. Air Force education
     programs prepare Air Force personnel to anticipate and successfully meet challenges across the range of
     military operations and build a professional corps. Further, they positively impact both recruitment and
     retention efforts.63 The objectives of PME programs are reflected in the AF Institutional Competency List
     and implemented through the Air University Continuum of Education. To be competitive for promotion,
     selective assignments, and other developmental opportunities, officers MUST complete the appropriate level
     of PME for their grade. Officers have a limited window of opportunity to complete PME, governed by AFI
     36-2301 Developmental Education. Given the time constraint, officers are highly encouraged to complete
     the available non-resident programs at their first opportunity. Deployments, remote assignments, and other
     life events may hinder an officer’s ability to complete non-resident or resident programs if they wait until the
     end of their eligibility window. PME is divided up into three sub-categories:

        7.1.1. Primary Developmental Education (PDE). PDE programs are Squadron Officer School (SOS) and
        the SOS-equivalent Inter-American Air Forces Academy (IAAFA) course.64 SOS can be completed either
        in residence or by distributed learning (correspondence).

           7.1.1.1. Currently PDE in residence is competitive, although the intent of the Air Force is for all
           officers to eventually complete PDE in residence.

        7.1.2. Intermediate Developmental Education (IDE). IDE programs are specified as Intermediate-Level
        Colleges (in the joint community and identified foreign schools) and/or Command & Staff Colleges,


63
     AFI 36-2301 Developmental Education, 16 Jul 10, pg 4.
64
     AFI 36-2301 Developmental Education, 16 Jul 10, pg 15.

                                                                                                             25
        internships and fellowships, as well as certain graduate degree programs through AFIT, NPS, ASAM and
        NDIC. Command & Staff Colleges include: ACSC, sister service and JPME I equivalent IDE-level
        foreign schools. IDE can be completed either in residence or by distributed learning. Resident IDE at all
        Service schools and the ACSC-DL programs are JPME Phase I awarding. Officers selected for IDE at
        non-JPME I awarding programs (AF Intern Program, AF Fellow Program, AFIT, NPS, etc.) are required
        to complete ACSC-DL to receive both JPME-I and IDE in-residence credit. Officers can elect to enroll in
        ACSC by DL/seminar. Officers who are selected to attend a non-Masters degree granting program, and/or
        do not hold a Masters degree may enroll in the AU Online Masters Program.65

           7.1.2.1. IDE in residence is highly competitive. To attend resident IDE, a pre-determined percentage
           of majors (and “selects”) will be identified as IDE “selects” from their promotion selection board. If
           not identified as a “select” from the promotion board, officers are considered an IDE “candidate” and
           can be nominated by their senior rater to their DT to attend resident IDE. The DT will competitively
           consider candidates for IDE selection, then vector those selected to the appropriate IDE opportunity.
           DT-nominated “candidates” must re-compete annually for IDE consideration. Final approval of IDE
           designations will occur at the annual DEDB. Board-identified IDE “selects” will attend resident IDE
           during their eligibility window as long as their performance continues to meet standards. IDE “selects”
           must complete ACSC-DL if it is determined that their designated IDE program is not JPME Phase I
           awarding. 66

        7.1.3. Senior Developmental Education (SDE). SDE programs are categorized as Senior-Level Colleges
        (in the joint community and identified foreign schools) and/or each Service‘s War College, National
        Defense University (NDU) programs (National War College and Industrial College of the Armed Forces),
        and certain fellowships (a complete listing of AF Fellowships can be found in Attachment 4 of AFI 36-
        2301). Resident programs at the Service‘s War Colleges and NDU programs award JPME Phase II credit.
        (NOTE: Most NDU programs award both JPME Phase I and Phase II.)67

           7.1.3.1. SDE in residence is extremely competitive. To attend resident SDE, a pre-determined
           percentage of lieutenant colonels (and selects) will be identified as SDE selects from their promotion
           selection board. If not identified as a “select” from the promotion board, officers are considered a SDE
           “candidate” and can be nominated by their senior rater to their Development Team (DT) to attend
           resident SDE. The DT will competitively consider “candidates” for SDE selection, then vector those
           selected to the appropriate SDE opportunity. Final approval of SDE designation will occur at the
           annual DEDB. DT-nominated “candidates” must re-compete annually for SDE consideration. SDE
           “selects”, to include lieutenant colonels, colonel (selects), and colonels must graduate school no later
           than their 23rd year of commissioned service.68

        7.1.4. Complete your PME! To be competitive for promotion, selective assignments, and other
        developmental opportunities, officers MUST complete the appropriate level of PME for their grade.
        Officers have a limited window of opportunity to complete PME, governed by AFI 36-2301. Given the
        time constraint, officers are highly encouraged to complete the available non-resident programs at their


65
     AFI 36-2301 Developmental Education, 16 Jul 10, pg 15.
66
     AFI 36-2301 Developmental Education, 16 Jul 10, pg 16.
67
     AFI 36-2301 Developmental Education, 16 Jul 10, pg 16.
68
     AFI 36-2301 Developmental Education, 16 Jul 10, pg 16.

                                                                                                           26
        first opportunity. Deployments, remote assignments, and other life events may hinder an officer’s ability
        to complete non-resident or resident programs if they wait until the end of their eligibility window.

     7.2. Advanced Academic Degrees. Air Force officers, particularly intelligence officers, need to complete
     advanced academic degrees (AAD). On one hand, AADs are important to officer professional development
     to the extent they enhance the officer’s professional qualifications. A degree which is directly related to the
     primary utilization area is appropriate at any level since this degree adds depth of experience.69 On the other
     hand, completion of any AAD is often seen as a signal of professional dedication that distinguishes an officer
     from those that don’t complete an AAD. Regardless, it is highly desirable for officers to complete their
     master’s degree before their major’s promotion board. To aid officers in achieving their AAD, opportunities
     exist both through official AF programs as well as tuition assistance at civilian institutions.

        7.2.1. Desired Degrees. Traditionally, intelligence officers have entered the career field with
        undergraduate degrees in predominantly political science, history and regional affairs. Similarly, intel
        officers have gravitated towards similar types of graduate degrees. Although these fields seem to
        naturally apply to intelligence and are readily available from part time, distributed learning education
        programs, the career field is imbalanced towards the humanities and soft sciences. The highly technical
        nature of ISR requires equally technical expertise (particularly in cyber and computer topics). Any
        degrees in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) fields are useful for intelligence
        officers. The dependence of intelligence on sound data management and evaluation makes degrees in
        operations research, statistics, accounting, and other hard sciences valuable. Foreign language, cultural
        and regional proficiency are also in high demand, with their necessity being explicitly stated at the highest
        levels of the DoD. Foreign language proficient officers may apply to participate in the Language Enabled
        Airman Program (LEAP) to assist in honing their language skills (see para 7.3 below).

        7.2.2. Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT). AFIT provides graduate education opportunities at its
        two resident graduate schools, the Graduate School of Engineering and the Graduate School of Logistics
        and Acquisition Management, as well as supervising students enrolled in its civilian institutions program.
        AFIT offers both MA and PhD programs, as well as distributed learning curricula. For more information,
        visit the website at www.afit.edu.

        7.2.3. National Intelligence University (NIU). NIU offers both MA and PhD programs, as well as
        distributed learning curricula. AF intelligence officers are frequently sent to NIU for resident IDE where
        they earn a Master of Science of Strategic Intelligence (MSSI) degree. For more information, visit the
        website at http://www.ni-u.edu.

        7.2.4. Naval Postgraduate School (NPS). NPS offers both MA and PhD programs, as well as distributed
        learning curricula. For more information on NPS, visit the website at http://www.nps.edu.

        7.2.5. Fellowships, Scholarships, and Grants. The Air Force provides an avenue by which officers may
        accept a fellowship, scholarship, or grant from an eligible donor when acceptance also includes
        sponsorship by AFIT. This applies to all Regular and Reserve officers, and Air Force Academy and
        Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) cadets who want to accept non-government-sponsored
        fellowships, scholarships, or grants. US Air Force Regular or career Reserve officers on extended active
        duty (EAD), and Air Force Academy cadets, Air Force ROTC cadets, Airman Education and
        Commissioning Program (AECP) candidates and Officer Trainees in Officer Training School (OTS) may
        apply for permission through AFIT to accept a fellowship, scholarship, or grant by an eligible donor (i.e.,


69
     AFI 36-2611 Officer Professional Development, 1 Apr 96, pg 8.

                                                                                                             27
        civilian universities).70 The program is governed by AFI 36-2302 Professional Development (Advanced
        Academic Degrees and Professional Continuing Education).

        7.2.6. Civilian Degrees. Air Force Military Tuition Assistance (TA) is authorized for active duty Airmen
        pursuing an educational goal. An education plan must be on file with the base Education Office. Tuition
        Assistance is authorized for college goals below the doctorate level. TA is not authorized for courses
        leading to a lateral or lower level degree than already possessed. TA is authorized for both resident (i.e.,
        ‘brick and mortar’) and distributed learning universities.

     7.3. Language Enabled Airman Program (LEAP). The Air Force Culture and Language Center (AFCLC) is
     chartered to develop Airmen who can communicate, build relations, negotiate and influence across cultural
     boundaries in support global expeditionary operations. AFCLC runs the LEAP program to sustain, enhance
     and utilize the existing language skills and talents within the Air Force. The stated goal of LEAP is to
     develop a core group of Airmen across specialties and careers possessing the capability to communicate in
     one or more foreign languages. To become a participant in LEAP, Airmen must already possess moderate to
     high levels of proficiency in a foreign language specified on the Air Force Strategic Language List. For
     more information, go to the website at http://www.culture.af.edu.

     7.4. Quality of Analysis (Q of A) Program. The purpose of the Q of A program is to improve the quality of
     Air Force intelligence analysis and help retain qualified intelligence personnel by increasing the depth of
     analytical area and functional expertise. The program is open to AF officers, enlisted and civilians. The
     program funds costs not to exceed $5,000 for up to three months of training. The individually tailored
     training may include travel to foreign countries for geographic area familiarization; attendance at academic
     seminars, scientific symposia, and equipment exhibitions; and visits to Federal and private research centers,
     laboratories, educational institutions, and production facilities. The training must not be used for collection
     and cannot be used to fund routine TDYs. Participants will submit a written trip report to AF/A2D at the end
     of training.71 For more information, refer to AFI 14-106 Intelligence Education, Research and Training
     Programs and the annual message released by AF/A2D in August.

8. Experience. Together with training and education, experience is the third pillar of military professionalism.
There are few military careers that are as diverse as Air Force intelligence officer. In fact, there are so many
different permutations for the nearly 2,900 authorized 14N billets that no two careers need look the same.
Furthermore, a review of the biographies of senior intelligence officers shows that there is no single path to
success beyond being outstanding, whatever and wherever the job. The following paragraphs will describe in
detail intel officer career progression, career management processes, and options for both depth and breadth of
expertise.

     8.1. Assignments. The goal of the assignment system is to satisfy operational requirements while balancing
     force and professional development. Officers must keep in mind when filling out their Airman Development
     Plan (ADP) that their assignment preferences are just that; the mission will always be the primary
     consideration in assignment decision. Assignments should also ultimately prepare intelligence officers for
     positions of increasing responsibility within the Air Force, Joint Commands and the intelligence community.
     Historically, the intelligence officer career field has faced significant manning, experience, and deployment
     challenges compounded by emerging growth in mission areas and organizational expansions. With a chronic


70
  AFI 36-2302 Professional Development (Advanced Academic Degrees and Professional Continuing
Education), 11 Jul 01, pg 11.
71
     AFI 14-106 Intelligence Education, Research and Training Programs, 5 Sep 02, pg 16.

                                                                                                            28
imbalance between officer authorizations and inventory, AF ISR force managers and the AFPC assignment
team are forced to manage tradeoffs and risks in order to best support operations while developing the ISR
force.

  8.1.1. Non-Rated Officer Prioritization Plan (NROPP). Assignments are driven by prioritized
  requirements. The NROPP is an annual document issued by the AF/A2 to the AFPC intel assignment
  team. Its objective is to satisfy Air Force combat/operational intelligence requirements first, and then
  prioritize among joint, key staff, training, operations support and career broadening/special duty
  requirements. AFPC fills billets in accordance with organizational entitlements found in the NROPP.
  Entitlement levels are set by grade and by command/agency, based on core 14N manning. Each PCS
  cycle, AFPC determines current manning rates for each command and identifies the number of movers
  required to sustain/meet entitlement based upon projected losses (PCS, Separations, and Retirements).
  MAJCOM 14N Functional Managers (MFM) prioritize their vacancies to facilitate AFPC assignment
  selections. The number of inbounds for each MAJCOM/COCOM will drive the number of requirements
  advertised by AFPC for PCS movers. Although the NROPP delegates vacancy prioritization to the
  command MFMs, the A2 reserves the authority to issue specific assignment guidance (for instance, to
  man Goodfellow instructors at 100%).

  8.1.2. Overseas Assignments. The intel career field affords many opportunities to serve overseas. Many
  are accompanied ‘long tours’ of two to three years, but others are remote, unaccompanied ‘short tours’
  (particularly to Korea). Upon giving the Oath of Office, officers assert to be a world-wide volunteer and
  must therefore prepare themselves and their families for an unaccompanied tour. While there are officers
  who retire without ever having had a short tour, they are statistical outliers. In fact, many officers prefer
  to pro-actively manage their careers by volunteering for remotes at a time of their choosing, instead of
  waiting to be ‘non vol-ed’. Officers should discuss such options with their supervisors and mentors.

8.2. Career Progression.

  8.2.1. 0 to 6 Years. For the first two to three assignments intel officers will predominantly execute ISR
  by performing duties in one or more of the four functional competencies (Analysis, Collection, Integration
  and Targeting). Sometimes lieutenants will execute enterprise management (i.e., staff jobs), but these
  cases will be by necessity (such as Join Spouse or humanitarian re-assignment), or exception (such as
  having a prior-service lieutenant stay at Goodfellow to instruct), not design. Typical job titles are ‘Intel
  Officer’, ‘OIC’, ‘Chief’ and non-boarded ‘Flight Commander'. A few officers will distinguish themselves
  from their peers by being accepted for competive training programs such as Weapons School, the Joint
  Officer Cryptologic Career Program (JOCCP), and resident advanced academic degrees. In these years
  officers will build the ISR and leaderhip skills that will be the foundation for the rest of their careers.

  8.2.2. 7 to 12 Years. The career stage of senior captain to senior major is intense as an officer tries to
  meet several important career milestones in a short period of time. Most will still work executing primary
  ISR missions, but in more supervisory capacities. Typical job titles are ‘Intel Flight Commander’,
  ‘Branch Chief’ and ‘Senior Intel Duty Officer’. More officers will transition to enterprise management
  billets, such as ‘Instructor’, ‘Action Officer’ and ‘Functional Manager.’ Captains will meet their Majors
  promotion board, where the first formal winnowing will occur, as some officers are distinguished from
  their peers by being ‘Definitely Promotes’, ‘IDE Selects’ or not promoted at all. Some will compete for
  O-4 leadership jobs (‘DO’, ‘OGI/Wing IN’ and ‘Det CC’) while all will receive their first vector from the
  14N DT.

  8.2.3. 13 to 19 Years. The majority of senior FGOs are involved with leading and directing ISR in senior
  supervisory positions or managing the ISR enterprise. Many positions are joint or within the greater
  intellience community. Common job titles are “Division Chief”, “Senior Intelligence Officer”, or
                                                                                                  29
        “Commander”. By the time an officer is in the primary promotion zone for lieutenant colonel (~14 years)
        his or her career trajectory has largely been set. Not everyone will command a squadron; of the
        approximately 385 14N O-5 authorizations, only about 30 are for squadron command. Similarly, fewer
        officers will attend SDE in residence compared to IDE. However, many officers find deep satisfaction in
        finally having the opportunity and authority to influence enterprise-wide decisions based upon their depth
        of expertise.

        8.2.4. 20 to 30 Years. The majority of intelligence officers do not serve to 20 years, let alone past that
        point. This is the top of the career pyramid, as only about 110 out of 3,000 14N authorizations are for O-
        6 and above. A few will continue the trajectory to be group and wing commanders, NAF or MAJCOM
        A2s, or COCOM J2s. The majority, however, will supervise the management of the ISR enterprise at the
        highest levels. ISR force mangement IAW this CFETP effectively stops once an officer makes O-6 or
        reaches the 20 year mark (with the exception of prior enlisted officers). Colonels are still force managed,
        but they utilize a different assignment and personnel management process.

     8.3. 14N Development Team (DT). DTs play a critical role in developing officers to support current and
     projected mission capabilities. Among other things, they ensure senior leadership within each career field
     becomes familiar with the people assigned to their functional area, making assessments of member potential
     for future opportunities; prepare senior leaders with a comprehensive understanding of both functional and
     institutional personnel requirements; and balance institutional and functional requirements for utilization of
     individual officers.72 A panel of senior ISR officers convenes periodically at AFPC to review 14N FGO
     records. The composition of this O-6 only board is vetted by the AF/A2, with a General Officer serving as
     the board president. DT members are a mix of WG/CCs and MAJCOM A2s, including USAFE, PACAF,
     and at least one Joint representative. For each DT Board, the AF/A2 issues instructions to the board
     members, establishing specific guidance and priorities for the career field. All officers will receive their first
     DT vector upon selection to O-4. The 14N DT will review each officer’s record of performance and
     determine how best the ISR community can utilize their skills and experience or recommend development of
     more breadth – both in and outside of the ISR functional areas. Development Team feedback is intended to
     provide the officer with the DT's best judgment on the way the Air Force might match documented
     experience, chain of command recommendations, and the developmental assignments foreseeable at the time
     of the DT's meeting. It is important to understand that the DT's "vector" is determined at a single point in
     time, but that an individual’s circumstances and Air Force mission requirements change constantly. A DT
     vector represents one way to develop an officer, but NOT the only way. The 14N DT board convenes three
     times per year:

        8.3.1. Summer DT. Squadron command candidate list and IDE/SDE selection

        8.3.2. Fall DT. O-4 leadership candidate list, graduating squadron commander outplacement and JOCCP
        nominee selection

        8.3.3. Spring DT. Vectors for new major selects and lieutenant colonel selects

     8.4. Depth versus Breadth. The perpetual challenge of ISR force management is to strike the right balance
     between depth and breadth of expertise, both within an individual officer’s career as well as the career field
     as a whole. In fact, the history of the AF intelligence officer career field is basically defined by efforts to
     resolve the depth versus breadth conundrum. This section will discuss where we’ve been to better describe
     where we’re going.


72
     AFI 36-2640 Executing Total Force Development, 29 Dec 11, pg 10.

                                                                                                               30
   8.4.1. AFS History (1947-1993). At its inception in 1947, Air Force intel was a consolidated officer
   career field. In the late 1950s Air Force intelligence officers were sub-divided into eight distinct AFSCs
   (8025 - HUMINT; 8035 - SIGINT; 8045 - IMINT; 8065 - Maps, Charts & Geodesy [MC&G]; 8075 -
   Applications; 8085 - Targeting; 8016 - Staff; and 8096 - Command). The specifics as to why this
   decision was made appear to be lost to history, but presumably it was in response to the technological
   intelligence collection methods of the time. Intelligence officers had a high degree of technical expertise
   (depth) but little understanding of the big picture (breadth).

   8.4.2. AFS History (1994-1998). During Desert Storm, commanders realized that the majority of Air
   Force intelligence officers were experts in their respective AFSCs, but lacked a holistic view of ISR.
   Additionally, with the post-Cold War reduction in force the Air Force could no longer afford to specialize
   to the same extent. The response was to reorganize the intel officer corps into a single AFSC (14Nx) with
   three shreds (14N1A - Operations; 14N1B - Applications; and 14N1C - MC&G), which were later
   reduced to two. The ‘Alphas’ covered the technical aspects of collection (IMINT, SIGINT, HUMINT and
   MASINT) while the ‘Bravos’ focused on applying intelligence to support aircrew as well as other AF,
   joint and national missions. Although an improvement over the Cold War structure, problems persisted
   with the perception that officers were still overly specialized.

   8.4.3. AFS History (1999-2010). In 1998 HQ USAF/XOI directed the combination of ‘Alphas’ and
   ‘Bravos’ into a single AFSC. The intent was to eliminate the over-specialization of the intel officer corps.
   All 14Ns were now on a ‘level playing field’ and were expected to be leaders, not specialists.
   Unfortunately, while this decision addressed the perceived over-specialization problem, it created a new
   one. Instead of having too many specialists, many believe that USAF intel officers are now overly-
   generalized, lacking expertise in any discipline or function. Over the past decade there were a series of
   efforts to address this situation, to include the publication of the first 14N CFETP (15 Jan 02). What they
   all had in common was the clear statement that although some degree of depth or specialization is desired,
   the career field will not return to formal shreds.

   8.4.4. AFS Present and Future. Beginning in 2011 HQ USAF/A2DFM undertook a complete rewrite of
   the 14N CFETP with the expressed purpose of making it the keystone of an overarching ISR force
   management plan. Where this CFETP differs from efforts in the past is its reliance upon previously
   unavailable quantitative and qualitative experience tracking through Career Path Tool (see para 8.8 for
   more details) as well as a standardized continuum of learning (CTT). CPT allows ISR force managers to
   measure the depth of ISR experience of indvidual officers as well as across the career field. Similarly,
   through the ISR 100 thru 400 courses CTT assures all intel officers sustain a common, coherent
   proficiency in the core ISR functional competencies. The unitary AFSC is preserved but ISR
   specialization is acknowledged, defined and tracked.

8.5. ISR Specialization and Certification. Although intel AFSC shreds ended in 1998, the 14N career field
recognizes that the intelligence profession requires expertise in the four core functional competencies. Intel
will now use a formal process to certify expertise in the core ISR functional capabilities based on specific
education, training and experience criteria.

   8.5.1. An officer who follows a very specialized path (either by choice or by force management decision)
   should expect by the time he or she became squadron command eligible to be Level 3 in one functional
   competency. Similarly, an officer who follows an optimally generalized path (again, either by choice or
   by force management) would likely be Level 1 in all four functional competencies. Most officers will fall
   somewhere in between, with perhaps achieving Level 2 in one competency and Level 1 in two others.

   8.5.2. These certifications will document individual qualifications as well as precisely describe ISR billet
   requirements, facilitating more effective matching of individuals to jobs. Officers and supervisors may
                                                                                                       31
reference certifications in individual Airman Development Plans (ADP) as may the DT for vectoring
purposes. From a broader ISR force management perspective, certifications will be used to better
characterize the career field (i.e., “Do we have enough targeting expertise across the career field?”),
thereby guiding decisions regarding organization, training, and capabilities.

8.5.3. ISR Professional Development Certification. Each of the four ISR functional competencies
(Analysis, Collection, Integration and Targeting) is broken down into three certification levels. The levels
are sequential, as officers progress from a foundation of technical competency (Level 1), through
demonstrated depth of knowledge and experience in application (Level 2), to extensive knowledge and
experience in ISR and warfighting operations (Level 3). Criteria for the various levels are tied to
education, training, and experience (with deployment experience being weighted). For specific details
refer to Attachment 6, but generally the levels are as follows.

   8.5.3.1. Level 1. Complete 14N Initial Skills Training (IST); complete IQT and MQT and be CMR
   (IAW AFI 14-202) in a duty position within the functional competency for at least 12 months or 179
   days at a deployed location; be recommended by supervisor. Note: Graduates from the Weapons
   School’s Intelligence Weapons Instructor Course automatically earn Level 1 certification for each of
   the four functional competencies.

   8.5.3.2. Level 2. Already be Level 1 in the functional competency; be CMR (IAW AFI 14-202) in a
   duty position within the functional competency for a cumulative total of at least 36 months at home
   station or 12 months at home station plus 365 days deployed; graduate from the functional
   competency’s Advanced Skills Training (AST) course or complete a related resident Advanced
   Academic Degree (such as AFIT) or internship (such as JOCCP); be recommend by supervisor. Note:
   IWIC graduates automatically earn Level 2 certification in Integration while ISWIC graduates earn
   Level 2 in Collection. JOCCP graduates also automatically receive Level 2 in Collection. Note: For
   the purpose of achieveing Integration Level 2 certification, in residence attendance at an IFTU or
   attendance at multiple IFTUs may be used to fulfill the AST requirement.

   8.5.3.3. Level 3. Already be Level 2 in the functional competency; be CMR (IAW AFI 14-202) in a
   duty position within the functional competency for a cumulative total of at least 60 months or 36
   months at homestation plus 365 days at a deployed location; graduate from the functional
   competency’s Advanced Skills Training course or complete a related resident Advanced Academic
   Degree (such as AFIT) or internship (such as JOCCP); be recommend by supervisor.

8.5.4. Other forms of ISR specialization. In addition to the aforementioned ISR Professional
Development Certifications, there are other ways that intelligence officers acquire and document
specialized experience. Some involve deliberately seeking out competitive training opportunities (such as
Weapons Officers or clandestine HUMINT), while others (such as Space and Cyberspace) accrue through
the normal assignment process.

   8.5.4.1. Cyberspace. AF Space Command is the Cyberspace Professional Functional Authority and
   therefore governs the Cyberspace Professional Development Program (CPDP). CPDP certification is
   based on specific education, training and experience criteria. It is used to document individual
   qualification, identify cyberspace professional billet requirements and facilitate an effective match of
   individuals to jobs for mission success. Certification is the basis for cyberspace professional career
   management through consistent and attainable standards at several career points. Only cyberspace
   related duty counts towards CPDP certification. Upon achieving CPDP certification officers are
   entitled to wear the cyberspace badge (the badget level corresponds to the wearer’s CPDP certification


                                                                                                    32
           level). For more specific details refer to AFGM 36-03, but CPDP certification requirements for
           intelligence officers are as follows:73

              8.5.4.1.1. Level 1. Complete 14N Initial Skills Training (IST); attend the Network Warfare Bridge
              Course (NWBC) and complete applicable IQT/MQT for duty position; be Combat Mission Ready
              (CMR) for 12 months in a CPDP billet.

              8.5.4.1.2. Level 2. Already be CPDP Level 1; complete the Cyberspace 200 course; serve for a
              cumulative total of 5 years in CPDP billets.

              8.5.4.1.3. Level 3. Already be CPDP Level 2; complete the Cyberspace 300 course; serve for a
              cumulative total of 7 years in CPDP billets.

           8.5.4.2. HUMINT. HUMINT is among the most specialized forms of Air Force intelligence. Officers
           selected for HUMINT specialization should expect two or three HUMINT assignments during their
           career. The path is rigorous and highly competitive, with screening, background checks, and
           challenging academic and field courses. Ideal candidates must have excellent interpersonal skills and
           demonstrated foreign language proficiency/aptitude (must have a DLAB score on file). The critical
           first step is identifying and evaluating officers early (senior lieutenants and junior captains) for
           potential HUMINT speciallization. Officers (as well as supervisors and SIOs) looking for more
           information on AF HUMINT opportunities should contact AF/A2DFM, preferably by SIPRNet or
           JWICS.

           8.5.4.3. Regionalization. The past decade of conflict has validated the imperative for intelligence
           officers to possess expertise in foreign languages, regions, and cultures. The Air Force has
           demonstrated its commitment through the establishment of a Language, Region and Culture Policy
           Branch on the Air Staff (HQ USAF/A1DG) as well as the Air Force Culture and Language Center.
           Among their successes are LEAP (see para 7.3), the consolidation of coded langauge designated
           positions, and the highly successful International Affairs Specialist program (see para 8.6.1). Although
           still in its infancy, regionalization is the future and we fully expect there to be more programs to
           develop, utilize and track regional expertise. Interested officers should strive to gain increased
           language proficiency and cultural familiarity through available educational opportunities (targeted
           regions are: Europe, Far East, Middle East, and North Africa) and monitor developments in
           information outlets such as the ISR Force Quarterly newsletter (put out by AF/A2DFM), DT Notes to
           the Field, and AFPC Robot emails.

           8.5.4.4. Space. AF Space Command is the Space Professional Functional Authority and therefore
           governs the Space Professional Development Program (SPDP). SPDP expands knowledge, experience
           and systems understanding to ensure AF space professionals serve effectively as integral members of
           the joint warfighting community.74 SPDP certification is based on specific education, training and
           experience criteria used to document individual qualifications, identify space billet requirements and
           facilitate an effective match of individuals to jobs for mission success. Only space related duty counts
           towards SPDP certification.75 Upon achieving SPDP certification officers are entitled to wear the


73
     AFGM 36-03 Cyberspace Professional Development Program, 16 Jul 11, pgs 4-5.
74
     AFI 36-3701 Space Professional Development Program, 20 May 10, pg 5.
75
     AFI 36-3701 Space Professional Development Program, 20 May 10, pg 19.

                                                                                                           33
           Space badge (the badge level corresponds to the wearer’s SPDP certification level).76 For more
           specific details refer to AFI 36-3701, but SPDP certification requirements for intelligence officers are
           as follows:77

              8.5.4.4.1. Level 1. Complete 14N Initial Skills Training (IST); serve for 12 months in a SPDP
              billet and attend the Space IFTU (SIFTU), or 24 months without SIFTU; successfully complete the
              SPDP Certification Briefing.

              8.5.4.4.2. Level 2. Already be SPDP Level 1; complete the Space 200 course; serve for a
              cumulative total of 5 years in SPDP billets.

              8.5.4.4.3. Level 3. Already be SPDP Level 2; complete the Space 300 course; serve for a
              cumulative total of 7 years in SPDP billets.

           8.5.4.5. Weapons Officers. The USAF Weapons School Weapons Instructor Course (WIC) is a
           “graduate level” course, which develops and refines instructor skill sets. The course is conducted at
           Nellis AFB, lasts 5 ½ months, and is run twice a year (starting in January and in July). Intel graduates
           earn the ‘W’ AFSC prefix, incur a three year ADSC to the USAF, and a five year commtment to the
           intelligence community in a WIC graduate assignment (i.e. a W14N coded billet). The initial (Tier
           One) assignment is normally at the operational wing level. For the follow on (Tier Two) assignment,
           graduates normally move on to major commands, AOCs, intelligence squadrons or return to the school
           house to instruct. Intel graduates are trained to instruct and train on an array of ISR topics, divided
           between two tracks. For more information on Weapons School, interested officers should contact
           AFPC, their local WIC graduate, or the 19 WPS (the intelligence squadron within the Weapons
           School).

              8.5.4.5.1. Intelligence Weapons Instructor Course (IWIC). Creates instructors who can train
              intelligence personnel for USAF combat Mission Design Series’ tactical mission planning and
              requirements for each specific USAF combat platform.

              8.5.4.5.2. Intelligence Sensor Weapons Instructor Course (ISWIC). Creates instructors who can
              train intelligence operators in tasking, collection, processing, exploitation, dissemination, and
              integration and the tactical applications of ISR sensors.

        8.5.5. Officers wishing to deliberately specialize should seek feedback and mentorship from their
        leadership and document their intent in the comments section of their Airman Development Plan. Not
        everybody has the inclination, ability and opportunity to specialize, nor is the intelligence career field
        structured for everyone to be a specialist. The needs of the Air Force are always paramount, which is why
        the key to career success is high quality performance at every assignment, regardless of what or where it
        is.

     8.6. Career Broadening. To strengthen our impact on Air Force and joint operations, opportunities exist to
     provide experience outside the ISR functional areas. Opportunities may include: International Affairs
     Specialist (IAS); Acquisitions Intelligence Experience Exchange Tour (AIEET); instructor duties for Reserve
     Officer Training Corp (ROTC), United States Air Force Academy (USAFA), and Air University (AU); and


76
     AFI 36-3701 Space Professional Development Program, 20 May 10, pg 21.
77
     AFI 36-3701 Space Professional Development Program, 20 May 10, pg 20.

                                                                                                           34
numerous internships. Officers should reference current AFPC 14N assignment team career broadening
opportunity guidance for availability and eligibility requirements. AFI 36-2611, Chapter 9 provides further
details on more career broadening opportunities.

  8.6.1. The International Affairs Specialist (IAS). The IAS program is managed as two distinct
  development paths, RAS and PAS. The RAS selection board meets during the annual Summer DT
  (Jun/Jul timeframe). Interested officers need to take the DLAB before applying (the DLAB is scheduled
  through the base education office). Officers should also have their commander contact the AFPC Intel
  Assignments team if they intend on competing for RAS/PAS. Officers selected for RAS/PAS will receive
  alternating 16F/G and 14N assignments

     8.6.1.1. Pol-Mil Affairs Strategist (PAS). Pol-Mil expert without language skills (international Pol-Mil
     generalist) (Eligibility: 7-12 yr point)

     8.6.1.2. Regional Affairs Strategist (RAS). Regional expert with professional language skills and in-
     depth cultural knowledge. (Eligibility: 7-10 yr point). Additionally, Olmstead Scholars and Mansfield
     Fellows will be designated as RAS officers upon graduation. It is highly desired that intelligence
     officers seek regional expertise in areas acknowledged by the Intelligence Community and the Air
     Force as having strategic importance, (the Far East, Middle East, North Africa, or Europe, for
     example) or those posing threats to the US.

  8.6.2. Acquisitions Intelligence Experience Exchange Tour (AIEET). 14N officers serve one 3-year
  developmental acquisition assignment in an AFSC 6X position. Participants are required to return to their
  core AFSC following the developmental assignment. The AIEET messages are released around March
  with complete application instructions.

  8.6.3. Reserve Officer Training Corp (ROTC) Faculty. The 14N career field does not generally release
  anyone to ROTC due to current manning, except for humanitarian or Join Spouse reasons. However, the
  14N AFS is sometimes subject to AF-wide manpower ‘taxes’ that will dictate a ROTC instructor quota
  that intel is obligated to fill. Interested officers should discuss with their SIOs, who will in turn contact
  AFPC.

  8.6.4. United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) Faculty. The 14N career field policy is to not release
  anyone for USAFA duty due to current manning except for those who owe “USAFA Payback” (i.e. they
  obtained an advanced degree though USAFA and are obligated to serve on the USAFA faculty).

  8.6.5. Air University Faculty. Each officer career field is expected to fill a quota of instructor billets at
  Air University, and intelligence is no exception. These duties range from leading a flight of Officer
  Training School (OTS) cadets to teaching at the Air War College. AU volunteers also receive preferential
  treatment from the AFPC when it comes to follow-on assignment matching. Interested officers should
  indicate their willingness to be considered for an AU assignment on their ADP.

  8.6.6. Internships. Numerous internships exist for all AFSCs, reference the AFPC web site for full list of
  opportunities. Intelligence officers should primarily pursue internships that support their growth as an
  ISR professional. The only exceptions to make toward career broadening internships are when such
  assignments are in areas that expose them to high levels of the decision-making structure and political and
  international affairs (i.e. AF Intern Program.) The prestigious internships are highly competitive in their
  selection process and tend to be viewed favorably by promotion boards. The following programs are
  specifically relevant to intel officers:


                                                                                                       35
8.6.6.1. Computer Network Operations Development Program (CNODP). The CNODP is comprised
of both the System and Network Interdisciplinary Program (SNIP) and the Global Network
Exploitation and Vulnerability Analyst (GNEVA) Development Program (GDP). This is an
opportunity for a select group of highly technically inclined individuals to further develop their skills
in the areas of secure system design, vulnerability analysis, computer network defense (CND), and
Computer Network Exploitation (CNE). The goal of the program is to develop a cadre of technical
leaders who will improve the DOD's and the service's Computer Network Operations capabilities. The
program is a technically demanding three-year tour with a follow-on assignment individually tailored
to each applicant to best capitalize on his/her expertise.

   8.6.6.1.1. Applicants should have an educational background and experience in the areas of
   computer engineering, computer science, electronic and electrical engineering, cryptanalysis, or
   applied mathematics. Eligible grades are O-2 to O-4, with less than 14 years total active federal
   military service. See program announcement for current application requirements.

8.6.6.2. Joint Officer Cryptologic Career Program (JOCCP). JOCCP is a selective 3 year (PCS) joint
officer professional development program at the National Security Agency/Central Security Service
(NSA/CSS) Ft George G. Meade, MD. HQ USAF/A2D in concert with NSA, the Air Force
Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Agency and Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC)
assignment officers manage the program for all active duty Air Force personnel.

   8.6.6.2.1. JOCCP offers participants a unique 36-month opportunity to develop broad technical and
   operational expertise through a combination of academics and workcenter experience. By taking
   courses through the National Cryptologic School (NCS), participants are exposed to a wide range of
   technical material that prepares them for their required workcenter tours. Program participants must
   complete approximately 1400 hours of NCS courses in the areas of signals intelligence, collection
   management, information assurance, information operations, and network analysis. During
   program, each officer is required to successfully complete four 6-month workcenter tours.

   8.6.6.2.2. In addition to exposure to the cryptologic effort at NSA, participants are offered the
   opportunity to interact with other organizations throughout the intelligence community as well as
   major military commands. Individuals may also have an opportunity to serve on a temporary duty
   status at field units. It is highly probable that JOCCP interns will complete at least one NSA/Air
   Force contingency TDY while assigned to the program. JOCCP graduates will receive an
   individually tailored follow-on assignment to best capitalize on his/her expertise.

   8.6.6.2.3. Applicants must be a career intelligence officer with an outstanding record of past
   performance who has completed at least one operational assignment. Eligible grades are O-2 to O-
   3, with no more than 7 years total active federal commissioned service and 12 years total active
   federal military service. See program announcement for current application requirements.

8.6.6.3. Geospatial Intelligence Analyst Career Program (GACP). GACP is an intern program
currently being developed by the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency (NGA) as a GEOINT
counterpart to JOCCP. It will be a three-year training program to prepare highly qualified, active duty,
career military personnel to fill Geospatial intelligence positions through advanced formal training and
individually tailored operational assignments while stationed at NGA. The program encompasses
formal academic curriculum provided by the NGA College (NGC) and on-the-job training assignments
throughout NGA, including possible operational deployment and appropriate Intelligence Community
partners. The program includes all facets of GEOINT applications and specialties that require
knowledge of, or training in, the analytic techniques and processes of exploiting advanced imagery

                                                                                                 36
      systems. Upon graduation, assignment in a 36 month follow-on tour commensurate with the
      education/training received from this program.

         8.6.6.3.1. GACP is still in development. Interested officers should monitor developments in
         information outlets such as the ISR Force Quarterly newsletter (put out by AF/A2DFM) or AFPC
         Robot emails.

8.7. Joint Assignments. There are three distinct types of joint activity assignments: Air Force requirements in
joint organizations; Air Force joint duty assignment (JDA) billets; and critical joint duty assignments
(CJDA) in joint organizations (only fully qualified joint specialty officers [JSO] can fill CJDAs). All three
tours are stabilized. Once an officer completes a full JDA or CJDA tour (normally 3 years), full joint credit is
awarded. Both JDAs and CJDAs are governed by the Goldwater-Nichols DoD Reorganization Act of 1986.

   8.7.1. Early, non-credit joint assignments that allow an officer to gain depth or breadth within ISR
   competencies within the joint environment (example: working targeting or collection management at a
   COCOM) may be appropriate for some officers. But these early CGO assignments do not award credit
   towards the joint officer qualification required for senior officer career progression.

   8.7.2. JSOs complete the Joint Professional Military Education (JPME) Program, followed by a JDA tour,
   or two JDA tours and are nominated to the Secretary of Defense by a central board. Officers who have a
   critical occupational specialty (pilots, navigators, nonrated operations) may de-sequence the order of the
   JPME and JDA tours.

   8.7.3. Field grade officers should complete a JDA in order to develop depth, gain experience in joint
   matters, and rotate USAF and joint experiences between joint activities and USAF positions.

   8.7.4. Joint agencies advise AFPC of requirements through the requisition process. The number of
   positions is limited. Selection is based on the officer’s potential to become a JSO or prior designation as a
   JSO. Officers completing National War College or the Industrial College of the Armed Forces can
   anticipate a JDA (all JSOs and 50 percent of other graduates must go to a JDA immediately after
   graduation).

8.8. Experience Tracking Through Career Path Tool (CPT). In order to more effectively identify key
experiences to fill AF and Joint requirements as well as better manage the AF career force, AF/A1 developed
an experience coding and tracking system to more readily employ forces called Career Path Tool (CPT).
CPT is based upon a six digit Airmen Capability Management (ACM) code, where the first three digits
consist of the career field AFS (14N) and the last three are used to categorize roles and experience. The 14N
Career Field Manager (CFM) was charged to develop a methodology for the last three digits of the ACMs
for ISR functionality. Once fully populated, CPT allows AF functional and CFMs the data necessary to
monitor and develop the force to the appropriate breadth and depth of experience required for the health of
the career field. Additionally, CPT allows the AFPC assignment team and the 14N Development Team (DT)
to quickly identify candidates for positions requiring specific experiences and certifications, replacing the
time intensive process of delving into hundreds of individual documents (such as performance reports).

   8.8.1. CPT pulls individual duty histories from MILPDS. A “man in the loop” then assigns each duty
   history line a six digit ACM code that characterizes the experience. In addition to listing each
   individual’s experiences, CPT also quantifies the data by years and months. This data can then be mined
   by individual (how many months of experience does Capt Snuffy have in Targeting?) or collectively (how
   many Captains do we have with Targeting experience?). There are also Individual Capability
   Management (ICM) codes that are deliberately assigned, as opposed to being automatically drawn from
   MILPDS. Similar to Special Experience Identifiers (SEIs) but more easily tailored, ICMs allow
                                                                                                        37
qualitative and very specific tags to be assigned to an individual (such as ‘Intel Weapons School
Graduate’ or ‘COCOM Planner’).

8.8.2. Career Path Tool is online and fully functional. If they haven’t already, officers must go to the CPT
website (either directly at https://afvec.langley.af.mil/af-cpt/Consent.aspx or through the "MyODP" link
in AF Portal) and register. Once registered, members should view and validate the coding of their duty
histories. Officers may correct discrepancies by either updating their duty histories in MILPDS and/or by
using the “Report ACM Error” function from the “My Duty History” screen. More information on CPT
may be found within the 14N CPT Business Rules/Lexicon found on the CPT Dashboard or at MyODP.




                                                                                                    38
Section C—Proficiency Training Requirements
9. Purpose. Proficiency training requirements are defined in terms of tasks and knowledge requirements. This
section outlines the knowledge, education, training, and experience requirements for qualification level
progression. The Course Training Standard (CTS) and Training Course Index at Part II, Section A and B of this
CFETP identify the specific task and knowledge training requirements as well as the available Proficiency
Training courses for Initial Qualification and Advanced Skills Training.

10. Specialty Qualification Requirements.

     10.1. Entry Level Specialty Qualification (14N1).

        10.1.1. Knowledge.       Knowledge is mandatory of intelligence fundamentals, security, analysis,
        communications skills, the intelligence disciplines, the intelligence community, ISR information systems,
        research sources and methods, the presentation of friendly forces, friendly weapons systems, adversary
        capabilities, ISR operations, targeting, and integration. In addition, officers require depth of knowledge
        for their assigned functional competency, as identified in AFI 14-202 and AFI 14-2(MDS) series AFIs.

        10.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, an undergraduate academic specialization is desirable in
        science (especially computers, geosciences and remote sensing), humanities (especially political science,
        sociology, foreign area studies and languages), structured analysis (especially statistics and operations
        research), engineering and mathematics. Foreign language study is highly desirable.

        10.1.3. Training. Officers will attend the Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Course or receive an AFCFM
        waiver as soon as possible after being accessed as a 14N1.

        10.1.4. Experience. No experience requirement.

        10.1.5. Other. Foreign language skills are highly desired. Specialty requires routine access to Top Secret
        material or similar environment. For award and retention of AFSCs 14NX, completion of a current
        Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program
        Management is mandatory.

        10.1.6. Training Sources and Resources. Training must be obtained via formal training course.

        10.1.7. Implementation. In accordance with AFI 36-2101 all newly commissioned officers are classified
        (i.e., awarded the 14N1 AFSC) by HQ AFPC/DPSIP, Officer Accession Branch, upon commissioning.78
        However, per AFI 14-202, until completion of the Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Course (or receiving
        an AFCFM waiver) no officer will perform intelligence duties unsupervised and under no circumstances
        will they deploy.79

     10.2. Intermediate Level Specialty Qualification (14N2).


78
     AFI 36-2101 Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 14 Jun 10, pg 14.
79
     AFI 14-202v1 Intelligence Training, 10 Mar 08, pg 6.



                                                                                                          39
  10.2.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of intelligence fundamentals, security, analysis,
  communications skills, the intelligence disciplines, the intelligence community, ISR information systems,
  research sources and methods, the presentation of friendly forces, friendly weapons systems, adversary
  capabilities, ISR operations, targeting, and integration. In addition, officers require depth of knowledge
  for their assigned functional competency, as identified in AFI 14-202 and AFI 14-2(MDS) series AFIs.

  10.2.2. Education. For career advancement in this specialty, officers should begin an advanced academic
  degree program (i.e., Master’s Degree). Recommended areas of specialization include foreign language,
  foreign area studies (or regionally focused programs), business administration, statistical analysis and
  operations research, and computer science.

  10.2.3. Training. Completion of the Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Course (or AFCFM waiver);
  completion of initial qualification training (IQT) and unit mission qualification training (MQT) for an ISR
  functional competency; and completion of the ISR 200 Continuing Technical Training (CTT) course are
  mandatory.

  10.2.4. Experience. Completion of a minimum of 12 months commissioned service performing
  intelligence functions after completing the Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Course (or AFCFM waiver) is
  mandatory.

  10.2.5. Other. Foreign language skills are highly desired. Specialty requires routine access to Top Secret
  material or similar environment. For award and retention of AFSCs 14NX, completion of a current
  Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program
  Management is mandatory.

  10.2.6. Training Sources and Resources. Training may be obtained via formal training, OJT, IQT/IFTU
  courses, and/or distributed learning.

  10.2.7. Implementation. The 14N2 AFSC is awarded upon certification by the officer’s supervisor and
  endorsement by the officer’s commander or staff agency that all requirements have been met.

10.3. Qualified Level Specialty Qualification (14N3).

  10.3.1. Knowledge. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of intelligence fundamentals, security,
  analysis, communications skills, the intelligence disciplines, the intelligence community, ISR information
  systems, research sources and methods, the presentation of friendly forces, friendly weapons systems,
  adversary capabilities, ISR operations, targeting, and integration. In addition, officers require depth of
  knowledge for their assigned functional competency, as identified in AFI 14-202 and AFI 14-2(MDS)
  series AFIs.

  10.3.2. Education. For career advancement in this specialty, officers will complete the appropriate level of
  professional military education (PME) and it is highly desirable for officers to complete an advanced
  academic degree program (i.e., Master’s Degree) as early as possible. See Paragraph 7.2.1 for
  recommended areas of specialization.

  10.3.3. Training. Completion of an intelligence Advanced Skills Training (AST) course (or an IQT/MQT
  program within a second ISR functional competency) and completion of the ISR 300 CTT course (either
  by distributed learning or by attending the ISR Master Skills Course) are mandatory.

  10.3.4. Experience. Completion of a minimum of 6 years commissioned service performing intelligence
  functions is mandatory.

                                                                                                      40
           10.3.4.1. If an officer’s 6 years of service were not exclusively performing intelligence functions, a
           postgraduate degree in a language, technical, or regionally focused degree; completion of the National
           Intelligence University MSSI program, or comparable in-residence course, may be submitted to the
           AFCFM for waiver to the “performing intelligence functions” requirement. A minimum of 8 years
           total commissioned service is still required.

        10.3.5. Other. Foreign language skills are highly desired. Specialty requires routine access to Top Secret
        material or similar environment. For award and retention of AFSCs 14NX, completion of a current
        Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program
        Management is mandatory.

        10.3.6. Training Sources and Resources. Training may be obtained via formal training, OJT, IQT/IFTU
        courses, and/or distributed learning.

        10.3.7. Implementation. The 14N3 AFSC is awarded upon certification by the officer’s supervisor and
        endorsement by the officer’s commander or staff agency that all requirements have been met.

     10.4. Staff Level Training Specialty Qualification (14N4).

        10.4.1. Knowledge. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of intelligence fundamentals, security,
        analysis, communications skills, the intelligence disciplines, the intelligence community, ISR information
        systems, research sources and methods, the presentation of friendly forces, friendly weapons systems,
        adversary capabilities, ISR operations, targeting, and integration. In addition, officers require depth of
        knowledge for their assigned functional competency, as identified in AFI 14-202 and AFI 14-2(MDS)
        series AFIs.

        10.4.2. Education. Staff officers should have completed the appropriate level of professional military
        education. For career advancement in this specialty, an advanced academic specialization or degree is
        desirable in a language, technical, or regionally focused program.

        10.4.3. Training. There are no training requirements but must be 14N2 at a minimum.

        10.4.4. Experience. There are no experience requirements but must be 14N2 at a minimum.

        10.4.5. Other. Designation of staff level relates only to the level of functional responsibility and is
        restricted to positions above wing level. It does not denote additional specialty qualifications.

        10.4.6. Training Sources and Resources. There are no mandatory training requirements. However, staff
        officers should attend appropriate supplemental training, advanced skills courses, local training courses,
        and professional seminars and symposiums that enhance their staff skills and expertise in their area of
        responsibility.

        10.4.7. Implementation. This AFSC is awarded upon assignment to some staff positions above wing level.
        Manpower will use the staff AFSC requirements for determining applicability. The 14N4 AFSC is used
        to identify planning and policy-making positions above wing level.80 Duty AFSC 14N4 is only for the
        duration of an assignment at a NAF or higher staff-level position. Upon reassignment to a non-staff
        position, the DAFSC should revert to 14N2 or 3, with 14N4 retained as the primary AFSC (PAFSC),
        second (2AFSC), or third (3AFSC) in the individual’s records IAW AFI 36-2101.



80
     AFI 36-2101 Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 14 Jun 10, pg 64.
                                                                                                          41
Section D—Resource Constraints
11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints, such as cost and manpower, which preclude
optimal and desired training from being developed or conducted. Narrative explanations of each resource
constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint has on training are included. Also in
this section are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource
constraints will be, at a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

12. Training Constraints:

  12.1. Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Course (ISR 100).

     12.1.1. Overview. The ISR 100 course is the Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Course. Course
     requirements are identified during the 14N U&TW IAW AFI 36-2201, with the 17th Training Wing
     (AETC) at Goodfellow AFB being responsible for course development and instruction. ISR 100 provides
     new personnel with an introduction to the breadth of AF Intelligence core expertise and establishes the
     foundation they will need to develop the specific knowledge and skill sets prerequisite for their
     development throughout their careers. All intelligence officers will attend the 14N AFSC-awarding
     course (or receive an AFCFM waiver) prior to attending any other intelligence training courses. Although
     designed for entry level officers (i.e., 2Lts), the course is also used to train officers cross-flowing from
     other career fields as well as civilians (primarily those in the PALACE ACQUIRE program).

        12.1.1.1. Course Length (days). 130 training days

        12.1.1.2. Programmed Annual Student Throughput. 490 (FY10); 542 (FY11); 594 (FY12); 557 (FY13)

        12.1.1.3. Actual Annual Student Throughput. 428 (FY10); 359 (FY11); 351 (FY12)

     12.1.2. Constraints. The 14N Intelligence Officer Initial Skills course is a well developed course that is
     reviewed through the U&TW process IAW AFI 36-2201. Some students are placed in ‘casual’ status
     pending adjudication of their TS/SCI clearance. The number of officers cross-flowing from other career
     fields is difficult to project, since the Non-Rated Officer Line (NRL) Officer Crossflow program adjusts
     annually based on the relative health of the NRL.           Casual and crossflow officers can affect the
     Programmed and Actual Annual Student Throughput numbers.

     12.1.3. Impact. Casual students draw upon training resources (such as billeting) but the 17 TRG has a
     strong program to make use of them until they begin training. AFPC and the 17 TRG are successfully
     able to manage the small numbers of crossflow officers.

     12.1.4. Resources Required. The last STRT produced a course that was 11 days shorter, so AETC
     determined that a new CRE was not required.

     12.1.5. Action Required. The 315 TRS is responsible for making updates to the course IAW with the
     revised CTS. The intent is for ISR 100 to be reviewed concurrently with ISR 200, 300 and 400 during the
     14N U&TW process.

     12.1.6. OPR and Target Completion Date. AF/A2DFM and AETC/A3TC (Mr Thomas Cacy) are the co-
     chairs for the 14N U&TW. Future U&TWs are projected for Jul 2014 and Jul 2016.

  12.2. Intelligence Intermediate Skills Course (ISR 200).


                                                                                                         42
  12.2.1. Overview. ISR 200 is an ISR intermediate skills course that focuses on the operational level of
  warfighting, integrating ISR operations in air, space, cyberspace, and ground operations. Officers should
  complete ISR 200 between the two and five year point of their careers. The intent is to provide post-
  initial skills training to CGOs to better prepare them for the leadership roles and responsibilities they will
  assume as captains. The course will consist of modules for each of the core functional competencies
  (Analysis, Collection, Integration and Targeting) as well as one for officer professional development
  (report writing, career management, etc). Each module will have an online test, and officers will be able
  to take a pre-test; a passing score means they don’t have to take that particular module or modules. Block
  test scores will be recorded in the student’s records for potential future use by supervisors and the DT.
  Course instructional materials will be available for any officer (not just students) to use as a reference.

     12.2.1.1. Course Length (days). Self-paced, but the intent is for students to invest about 40 hours (5
     days) in study and taking the tests. Officers who test-out of modules should see a commensurate
     saving of time.

     12.2.1.2. Programmed Annual Student Throughput. 400

     12.2.1.3. Actual Annual Student Throughput. As a new course, there is no data for FY10 and FY11

  12.2.2. Constraints. The course is currently purely conceptual and needs complete development. In a time
  of uncertain budgets, it is critical to build this course as cost-effectively and efficiently as possible.

  12.2.3. Impact. The Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Course is the only intel course a 14N is required to
  take in his or her entire career. This compares unfavorably with our sister services, such as the Army who
  requires all Military Intelligence Officers to attend a 20 week resident advanced course. The creation of
  IMSC was a good first step, but the legacy version took place at the 8-10 year mark in an officer’s career.
  Given that a 14N’s average career length is 11.32 years, the majority never attended IMSC. ISR 200
  targets all intel officers during their initial Active Duty Service Commitment (ADSC), ensuring a standard
  level of functional and professional knowledge common across the entire career field at the critical ranks
  of senior lieutenant and junior captain. ISR 200 provides the professional bridge between Goodfellow
  lieutenant and seasoned ISR CGO. Without it, the continuum of learning is interrupted and ISR force
  management is made much more difficult.

  12.2.4. Resources Required. ISR 200 will be completely by distance learning. Wherever possible, course
  materials will be taken from existing Goodfellow courses (the 14N Initial Skills Course, IFTUs, and
  advanced courses) to economize resources and ensure content coherency. The intent is to leverage
  Interactive Multimedia Instruction (IMI) expertise within the 315 TRS to develop course materials that
  reside on JIVU, with student administration run by Air University.

  12.2.5. Action Required. Prepare a draft CTS, create a demonstration model, and submit a CRE. Once the
  CTS and CRE are approved, develop/implement the new course content. The intent is for ISR 200 to be
  reviewed concurrently with ISR 100, 300 and 400 during the 14N U&TW process.

  12.2.6. OPR and Target Completion Date. AF/A2DFM is the OPR for developing the draft CTS, working
  closely with the 315 TRS. Once the CTS is developed, AF/A2R will request a formal CRE to 17 TRG
  through AETC/A3T IAW AFI 36-2201. Upon approval by AF/A2DF of the CTS and the CRE, 17 TRG
  will develop/implement the new course content.

12.3. Intelligence Master Skills Course (ISR 300).



                                                                                                        43
12.3.1. Overview. Similar to ISR 200, ISR 300 again covers the core functional competencies, but from a
more strategic level which includes the integration of ISR effects, strategy, policy, doctrine, law and
acquisition across the joint military community. Officers should complete ISR 300 between the six and
10 year point in their careers. Officer professional development is tailored to what a newly minted Major
needs to know (budgeting, manpower, mentorship, etc). What’s different from the current version of the
course is that there will now be parallel distance learning and resident versions of the course. The intent
is for the content, learning objectives, and standards of performance to be as identical as possible.
However, those who attend in residence (or participate virtually), will benefit from seminar-type
discussions moderated by guest speakers.

   12.3.1.1. Course Length (days). 15 days (residence) or self-paced (distance learning)

   12.3.1.2. Programmed Annual Student Throughput. 145 (FY10-12)

                                             Projected for FY14: 250 (125 in residence; 125 by distance)

   12.3.1.3. Actual Annual Student Throughput. 72 (FY10); 58 (FY11); 92 (FY12)

12.3.2. Constraints. ISR 300/IMSC is currently under full revision. A traditionally seminar course taught
by guest speakers needs to be converted to a format which can also be taught by distance learning. Due to
the TDY costs of guest speakers and to enable distance learners to participate virtually, it is recommended
that IMSC field a secure, dedicated VTC capability. Like ISR 200, the intent is to leverage Interactive
Multimedia Instruction (IMI) expertise within the 315 TRS to develop course materials that reside on
JIVU, with student administration run by Air University.

12.3.3. Impact. At the field grade level the intelligence career field demands broadly skilled officers
capable of leading Airmen executing all four AF intelligence core functional competencies (Analysis,
Collection, Integration and Targeting). By the point in their careers officers attend IMSC, they are six to
10 years removed from the initial skills course. Even if they had perfect retention of what they learned in
school, intelligence is so dynamic that much of the information they learned will be out of date. Building
upon ISR 100 and 200, ISR 300 is the critical next step in the continuum of learning. In addition to
revising IMSC to ensure its coherency with ISR 100/200, it’s vital to create the distance learning version
as a way to make sure all 14Ns have the opportunity for this training. This is the only way to ensure all
our officers have the baseline knowledge and skills required to meet the challenges of being a FGO,
particularly in the Joint environment.

12.3.4. Resources Required. A traditionally seminar course taught by guest speakers needs to be
converted to a format which can also be taught by distance learning. Like ISR 200, the intent is to the
leverage Interactive Multimedia Instruction (IMI) expertise within the 315 TRS to develop course
materials resident on JIVU, with student administration run by Air University. The 315 TRS needs a
dedicated secure VTC suite for the IMSC classroom to significantly reduce TDY costs for guest
instructors as well as allow students attending through distance learning to participate in the resident
IMSC discussions.

12.3.5. Action Required. Prepare a draft CTS and submit a CRE for both resident and distance learning
versions of the course. Once the CTS and CRE are approved, develop/implement the new course content.
The intent is for ISR 300 to be reviewed concurrently with ISR 100, 200 and 400 during the 14N U&TW
process. Identify the costs for the secure VTC suite and secure funding.

12.3.6. OPR and Target Completion Date. AF/A2DFM is the OPR for developing the draft CTS, working
closely with the 315 TRS. Once the CTS is developed, AF/A2R will request a formal CRE to 17 TRG
                                                                                                   44
   through AETC/A3T IAW AFI 36-2201. Upon approval by AF/A2DF of the CTS and the CRE, 17 TRG
   will develop/implement the new course content. The 17 TRG will also provide AF/A2DFM with a cost
   estimate for the secure VTC.

12.4. Intelligence Senior Skills Course (ISR 400).

   12.4.1. Overview. ISR 400 is an ISR senior leader course that focuses on strategy, policy, and doctrine as
   well as senior officer professional development topics. Officers should complete ISR 400 between the 11
   and 16 year point in their careers. Currently under development, the intent is to provide late-career
   training to FGOs to prepare them for the leadership roles and responsibilities they will assume at the O-5
   and O-6 level (for example, participating as a member of the DT or promotion board). The course will
   again cover the core functional competencies, but from a senior, ‘big picture’ perspective. More time will
   be devoted to the officer professional development issues distinctive to senior Air Force officers. Like
   ISR 300, officers can complete the course either by distance learning or by attending the resident course
   (hosted by AF/A2D in the NCR). The intent is for the content, learning objectives, and standards of
   performance to be as identical as possible, though the interaction with senior leaders and site visits within
   the NCR make attending the resident version highly desirable.

      12.4.1.1. Course Length (days). 10 days (residence) or self-paced (distance learning)

      12.4.1.2. Programmed Annual Student Throughput. 100 (50 in residence; 50 by distance learning)

      12.4.1.3. Actual Annual Student Throughput. As a new course, there is no data for FY10 and FY11

   12.4.2. Constraints. The course is currently purely conceptual and needs complete development. In a time
   of uncertain budgets, it is critical to build this course as cost-effectively and efficiently as possible.

   12.4.3. Impact. ISR 400 is the capstone to 14N continual technical training. It is the last formal intel
   training officers will receive and is the last opportunity to ‘force manage’ the next generation of
   commanders, A2s, J2s, and senior staff officers. Given the razor thin margin for error for making a
   COCOM J2 or general officer, this course is critical for the sustainment and progression of our senior
   intelligence leaders.

   12.4.4. Resources Required. Parallel distance learning and residence courses need complete development.
   Like ISR 200 and 300, the intent is to the leverage Interactive Multimedia Instruction (IMI) expertise
   within the 315 TRS to develop course materials resident on JIVU, with student administration run by Air
   University. Having Air Staff host the course instead of the 17 TRG will save on the TDY cost of guest
   speakers, but will be offset by the greater TDY-to-school costs of the NCR compared to Goodfellow
   (having students already assigned to the NCR attend the course would be a cost mitigating option).

   12.4.5. Action Required. Prepare a draft CTS and submit a CRE for both resident and distance learning
   versions of the course. Once the CTS and CRE are approved, develop/implement the new course content.
   The intent is for ISR 400 to be reviewed concurrently with ISR 100, 200 and 300 during the 14N U&TW
   process.

   12.4.6. OPR and Target Completion Date. AF/A2DFM is the OPR for developing the draft CTS, working
   closely with the 315 TRS. Once the CTS is developed, AF/A2R will request a formal CRE to 17 TRG
   through AETC/A3T IAW AFI 36-2201. Upon approval by AF/A2DF of the CTS and the CRE, 17 TRG
   will develop/implement the new course content.



                                                                                                        45
Part II

Section A—Course Training Standard
13. Purpose: The Air Force uses the Course Training Standard (CTS) to identify the training students receive
in a specific course. It serves as the foundational document which describes the course’s content and standard
of proficiency each student is expected to achieve in order to successfully complete the course. It’s also used as
the basis for the Course Resource Estimate (CRE) which describes the human, physical, and fiscal resources
required to execute the course. In essence, the CTS is a contract between the Career Field Manager and the
training provider, and can only be modified through the STRT/U&TW process and AFCFM policy directives.

   13.1. Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Course (ISR 100) CTS. See Attachment 1.

   13.2. Intelligence Intermediate Skills Course (ISR 200) CTS. See Attachment 2.

   13.3. Intelligence Master Skills Course (ISR 300) CTS. See Attachment 3.

   13.4. Intelligence Senior Skills Course (ISR 400) CTS. See Attachment 4.

14. Documentation. Certification will be accomplished through written tests and performance evaluations as
prescribed in the measurement plan maintained for each course by the 315 TRS. Upon completion of the
Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Course, students will receive a certificate of completion and a training report
(AF Form 475). For ISR 200/300/400, students will receive a certificate of completion but no training report.

15. Qualitative Requirements. AETC uses standardized proficiency codes to describe the level of expertise
(even knowledge or performance based) required for each CTS line item. Deceptively simple, the proficiency
codes drive all phases of course development, from the language used in training objectives to the formulas
used for the CRE. See Attachment 5 for the Training Proficiency Code Key.

16. Qualification Training Requirements. The Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Course (ISR 100) is only
provided in residence. ISR 200 (under development) will only available as a virtual (distance learning) course.
ISR 300 is available either by distance learning (under development) or by going to IMSC in residence. ISR 400
(under development) will be available either by distance learning or by going to ISSC in residence. For ISR
300 and 400 the terminal learning objectives, standards, and evaluations are the same whether the course is
completed in residence or by distance learning.

17. Proficiency Designator Table. This table provides course requirements and experience requirements
necessary for each AFS level.

Proficiency    Title          Course Requirements                              Experience
Designator                                                                     Requirements

14N1           Entry Level    Attend the Intelligence Officer Initial Skills   None
                              Course (or receive an AFCFM waiver) as
                              soon as possible after being accessed as a
                              14N1

14N2           Intermediate 1. Complete Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Complete a minimum of
                            Course (or receive an AFCFM waiver)             12 months commissioned
                                                                            service performing
                            2. Complete a IQT/MQT for an ISR
                                                                                                           46
                                 functional competency                           intelligence functions

                                 3. Complete ISR 200

14N3            Qualified        1. Complete an Advanced skills Training         Complete a minimum of
                                 (AST) Course or complete IQT/MQT for at         6 years commissioned
                                 least two difference ISR functional             service performing
                                 competencies                                    intelligence functions

                                 2. Complete ISR 300

14N4            Staff Officer Must be 14N2 (See Note)                            Must be 14N2 (See Note)



Note: Designation of staff level relates only to the level of functional responsibility and is restricted to positions
above wing level. It does not denote additional specialty qualification. Upon reassignment to a non-staff
position, the DAFSC should revert to 14N2 or 3, with 14N4 retained as the primary AFSC (PAFSC), second
(2AFSC), or third (3AFSC) in the individual’s records IAW AFI 36-2101.

18. Recommendations. Supervisors should report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates as
well as perceived shortcomings in course content to their MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM), referencing
specific CTS paragraphs. MFMs will compile feedback for inclusion in the U&TW process.

Section B—Training Course Index
19. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies specific training courses available to intelligence officers and
the functional competencies, cross functional capabilities, and enterprises they address. This list is extensive
but not exhaustive. In addition to the references provided below, officers should contact their unit and
MAJCOM training specialists for more details.

20. AF Intelligence Courses. For full course descriptions, reference the Education & Training Course
Announcements (ETCA) web site https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.

   20.1. Continuing Technical Training.

COURSE ID             COURSE TITLE                                                          LOCATION
X3OBR14N1 0A1B        Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Course (ISR 100)                  Goodfellow AFB
Under Development     Intelligence Intermediate Skills Course (ISR 200)                     Distance Learning
X3OZR14N4 0A1A        Intelligence Master Skills Course (ISR 300)                           Goodfellow AFB
Under Development     Intelligence Senior Skills Course (ISR 400)                           Pentagon/Distance



   20.2. Proficiency Training Courses.

       20.2.1. Initial Qualification Training Courses.

COURSE ID             COURSE TITLE                                                           COMPETENCY
X2OZR14NX 00AA        Analysis Formal Training Unit (Officer) Course                         Analysis
ACC ISRLO-NCO         AFCENT (CENTCOM) ISR Liaison Officer (LO)/NCO Course                   Collection
X3OOR14NX A90A        AF DCGS Mission Operations Commander (MOC) Course                      Collection

                                                                                                                47
RC135IIO            RC-135V/W Information Integration Officer Qualification & Requalification          Collection
E-8 AIO_QT          E-8 Airborne Intelligence Officer Qualification Training                           Collection
A-103ZITO           A-10 Intelligence Formal Training Unit                                             Integration
AFGSC IFTU          AFGSC Intelligence Formal Training Unit (AFGSC Intel IQT)                          Integration
AFSOF-IFTU          AFSOF Intelligence Formal Training Unit (IFTU)                                     Integration
B-1 IIQC            B-1 Intelligence Initial Qualification Course (IIQC)                               Integration
F-22A IIQC          F-22A Intelligence Initial Qualification Course (IIQC)                             Integration
F15C-IFTU           USAF F15C Intelligence FTU (IFTU) Course                                           Integration
F16-IFTU            F-16 Intelligence FTU (IFTU) Course                                                Integration
MQ-1/MQ-9 IIQC      MQ-1/MQ-9 Intelligence Initial Qualification Course (IIQC)                         Integration
PR IIQC             Personnel Recovery Intelligence Initial Qualification Course (IIQC)                Integration
F-15E IIQC          F-15E Intelligence Initial Qualification Course (IIQC)                             Integration
AMC MAF IFTU        AMC MAF Intelligence Formal Training Unit                                          Integration
SOPSC V3 064        Space Intelligence Formal Training Unit (SIFT-U)                                   Integration
AF FP IFTU          AF Force Protection Intelligence Formal Training Unit Course                       Integration
ASOC IQC            Air Support Operations Center Initial Qualification Course (ASOC IQC)              Integration
IBA IIQC            Intelligence Battlefield Airman (IBA) Intelligence Initial Qualification Course    Integration
X3OZR14N3 0A3D      Targeting Intelligence Formal Training Unit (IFTU) Course (Officer)                Targeting
AFPMIQC01           AF Point Mensuration Initial Qualification Training Course                         Targeting



     20.2.2. Advanced Skills Training Courses.

COURSE ID           COURSE TITLE                                                                      COMPETENCY
INTEL WIC           USAF Intelligence Weapons Instructor Course                                       Analysis, Collection,
                                                                                                      Integration, Targeting
ISWIC               USAF Intelligence Sensor Weapons Instructor Course                                Analysis,        Collection,
X2OAR14NX 0A1A      Advanced Analysis Course                                                          Analysisi          i
E8IAIO              E-8 Instructor Airborne Intelligence Officer                                      Collection
X3OZR14N3 0A1B      Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance Operators Course (IROC)              Collection
AAMIC               Advanced Air Mobility Intelligence Course                                         Integration
Under Development   Air Force Master Targeting Course                                                 Targeting



  20.3. Supplemental Intelligence Training.

     20.3.1. Intelligence Disciplines and Professional Tradecraft.

COURSE ID              COURSE TITLE                                                                   COMPETENCY
X6OZW14N3 0A0A          Predictive Battlespace Awareness (PBA) Intelligence Baseline Course           Analysis
X5OZA14N3 0A1A         (Information
                             C)     Systems Security Monitoring Course - Army                         Analysis
X5OZD14N3 0A2A         Postgraduate Intelligence Program (PGIP) - DIA                                 Analysis
X5OZD14N3 0A3A         Intelligence Analyst Course (IAC) - DIA                                        Analysis
X5OZD14N3 0A4A          Warning Analysis Course - DIA                                                 Analysis
X5OZD14N3 0A5A         National Intelligence Course (NIC) – DIA                                       Analysis
X5OZD14N3 0A7A         Counterterrorism Analysis Course (CAC) – DIA                                   Analysis
X5OZD14N3 0A7A         Counterterrorism Analysis Course (CAC) – DIA                                   Analysis
X5OZD14N3 0B4A          Advanced Counterterrorism Analysis Course (ACAC) – DIA                        Analysis
X5OZD14N3 0B9A          Counter-Narcotics Analysis Course (CNAC) – DIA                                Analysis

                                                                                                                          48
X5OZD14N3 0C9A       Defense Intelligence Production Analysis (DIPAC) – DIA                Analysis
SOED-DIT             Dynamics of International Terrorism (DIT) - AFSOC                     Analysis
SOED-CIWC            Contemporary Insurgent Warfare Course (CIWC) - AFSOC                  Analysis
M5-61                Arms Control Non-Proliferation Course                                 Analysis
M5-66                NATO Defense Against Terrorism Course                                 Analysis
N2-03                NATO Intelligence Analyst Course (NIAC)                               Analysis
N2-47                NATO Intelligence Warning System (NIWS)                               Analysis
X5OSK14N3 0A0A       Geospatial Information and Services for the Warrior - NGA             Collection
X5OZD14N3 0C5A       Intro to RSI/GIS - Defense Mapping School                             Collection
X5OZD14N4 0B2A       Geospatial Information and Services Joint Staff Off Crs - DMS         Collection
X5OZD14N3 0C7A       Intelligence Collection Course (ICC) – DIA                            Collection
X5OZD14N3 0X3A       Intelligence Collection Managers Course (ICMC) – DIA                  Collection
XBAAAXXXXX 0A9A      Joint HUMINT Analysis and Targeting Course (JHATC) - Army             Collection
XBAAAXXXXX 0A1A      Defense Strategic Debriefing Course (DSDC) - Army                     Collection
X5OZD14N3 0C1A       Joint Special Operations Intelligence Course (JSOIC) - DIA            Integration
X5OZD14N3 0C6A       Intelligence Support to Information Operations – DIA                  Integration
ACC ULSIO            ACC/A2 Unit-Level Intelligence Leadership and Management Course       Integration
PR 297               Personnel Recovery Debriefing                                         Integration
B-V7C-E PN           Introduction to Electronic Warfare                                    Integration
S-V8E-S PN           Electronic Warfare Coordinator                                        Integration
S-V9E-S PN           Non-Traditional Electronic Warfare Applications                       Integration
N3-17                NATO Conventional Targeting Course - NATO                             Targeting
X5OZN14N3 0B4A       Joint Targeting Staff Course - Joint Targeting School                 Targeting
X5OZN14N3 0B5A       Joint Targeting Applications Course - Joint Targeting School          Targeting
X5OZN14N3 0B6A       Joint Battle Damage Assessment Course - Joint Targeting School        Targeting
X5OZN14N3 0B7A       Joint Targeting School Consolidated Course - Joint Targeting School   Targeting
X5OZN14N3 0Z1A       Joint Collateral Damage Estimation Course - Joint Targeting School    Targeting
X7OZT14N3 0A3A       Conventional Weaponeering Fundamentals MTT                            Targeting



    20.3.2. Cross Functional Capabilities.

COURSE ID           COURSE TITLE                                                           Cross Function
ACC JT-220          Link 16 Unit Manager Course                                            Airborne ISR, AOC, DCGS
ACC JT-310          Advanced JICC Operator Course (AJOC)                                   Airborne ISR, AOC, DCGS
ACC JT101           Link 16 Joint Interoperability Course                                  Airborne ISR, AOC, DCGS
ACC JT102           Multi-TDL Advanced Joint Interoperability Course (MAJIC)               Airborne ISR, AOC, DCGS
ACC JT201           Link 16 Planner’s Course                                               Airborne ISR, AOC, DCGS
ACC JT301           Joint Interface Control Officer (JICO)                                 Airborne ISR, AOC, DCGS
ACC AOCIQTTDLM      Tactical Data Link Manager                                             Airborne ISR, AOC, DCGS
ACC AOCFUN          Air Operations Center Fundamentals                                     AOC
ACC AOCIQTISR       AOC Initial Qual Training, ISR Course (AOCIQISR)                       AOC
ACC AOCIQTSTR       AOC Strategy Division Initial Qualification Training Course            AOC
AOC AOCIQTCPD       AOC Initial Qualification Training Combat Plans Division Course        AOC
ACC AOCIQTCOD       AOC Initial Qualification Training Combat Operations Division Course   AOC
AOC CSSC            Combined Air and Space Operations Senior Staff Course                  AOC
ACC JSSC            Joint Air and Space Operations Senior Staff Course                     AOC
ACC AISC            AFFOR Intermediate Staff Course                                        AOC

                                                                                                            49
GMAOC              Global Mobility Air & Space Operations Course                   AOC
GMAOE              Global Mobility Air & Space Operations Executive Course         AOC
GMAOF              Global Mobility Air & Space Operations Familiarization Course   AOC
JFC                Joint Firepower Course (JFC)                                    ASOC, Flying Unit Support
IOS-COFC 001       Cyber Operations Fundamentals Course (Formerly X-Course)        Cyberspace
IOS-91PIQT 001     91 NWS Positional Initial Qualification Training                Cyberspace
WCYBER200          Cyberspace 200                                                  Cyberspace
WCYBER300          Cyberspace 300                                                  Cyberspace
UNWP               Undergraduate Network Warfare Prerequisite                      Cyberspace
MCOEC001           Cyberspace Operations Executive Course                          Cyberspace
AEG LDR            AEG Staff Course (USAF Expeditionary Center)                    Flying Unit Support
AF CR-MOC BSC      AF Contingency Response Mission Orientation Basic Course        Flying Unit Spt, Force Pro
AF CR-MOC LDR      AF Contingency Response Mission Orientation Leadership Course   Flying Unit Spt, Force Pro
CR MPC             Contingency Response Mission Planner Course                     Flying Unit Spt, Force Pro
X5OZD14N4 0B3A     Joint CI Staff Officer Course (JCISOC) – DIA                    Force Protection
L5OZA14N3 0P1B     Psychological Operations Officer Course - Army                  Information Operations
IOFC               Information Operations Fundamentals Course                      Information Operations
MCADRE005          Information Operations Fundamentals Application Course          Information Operations
MCADRE006          Senior Joint Information Operations Applications Course         Information Operations
ACC IOIC           Information Operations Integration Course                       Information Operations
MD0002             Operational Military Deception                                  Information Operations
SM0001             Signature Management Course (SMC)                               Information Operations
AF STOIQT-01       USAF Special Technical Operations (STO) IQT                     Information Operations
JIWSOC             Joint Information Operations Planners Course (JIOPC)            Information Operations
N3-16              NATO Senior Officer Information Operations Course               Information Operations
N3-19              NATO Information Operations Course                              Information Operations
SOED-IFID          Insurgency and Foreign Internal Defense (IFID)                  SOF
SOED-ISOC          Introduction to Special Operations Course (ISOC)                SOF
SOED-MCC           Mission Commander’s Course (MCC)                                SOF
SOED-SOFAC2C       Special Operations Forces Air Command and Control Course        SOF
SOED-SOFAC2S       Special Operations Forces Air Command and Control Seminar       SOF
SOSPC V3 053       Space Fundamentals Course (SFC)                                 Space
SOPSC V3 069       Advanced Orbital Mechanics Course (AOM)                         Space
SOPSC V3 070       Introduction to Space (ITS-DL)                                  Space
MSPACE200          Space 200                                                       Space
MSPACE300          Space 300                                                       Space




    20.3.3. Regional Area Courses.

COURSE ID         COURSE TITLE
SOED-ICSOF        Intercultural Competence for SOF Course
SOED-STSTOF       SOUTHCOM Theater for SOF Course
                                                                                                     50
SOED-CTSOF         CENTCOM Theater for SOF Course
SOED-ETSOF         EUCOM Theater for SOF Course
SOED-ATSOF         AFRICOM Theater for SOF Course
SOED-PTSOF         PACOM Theater for SOF Course
WCIP05A            Foreign Service Institute Area Studies
M2-48              NATO Geospatial Orientation Course (NGOC)
M3-50              NATO Peace Support Operations Course
M5-32              NATO Staff Officer Orientation Course - NATO
M5-41              NATO European Security Cooperation Course
M9-56              NATO Civil-Military Planning and Support Course
N2-02              NATO Intelligence Course
N5-13              NATO Nuclear Policy Course
N5-31              NATO Senior Officer Policy Course
N5-35              NATO Bi-SC Command & Control Course
N5-36              NATO Staff Officer Force Planning Course
USAFE SQCC         USAFE Squadron Commander’s Course



    20.3.4. Enterprise Management Courses.

COURSE ID           COURSE TITLE                                                            Enterprise
WSYS031             Intelligence in Acquisition Lifecycle Management                        Acquisition
AF CSSC             COMAFFOR Senior Staff Course                                            Doctrine, Policy, Strategy
MCADRE002           Contingency Wartime Planning Course                                     Doctrine, Policy, Strategy
JC4ISOC             Joint C4I Staff and Operations Course (JC4ISOC)                         Doctrine, Policy, Strategy
MAFSO2101           AFSO21 Black Belt Course                                                Doctrine, Policy, Strategy
MCADRE003           Joint Air Operations Planning Course                                    Doctrine, Policy, Strategy
MNUC300             Advanced Nuclear Concepts Course                                        Doctrine, Policy, Strategy
MNUC400             Senior Leader Nuclear Management Course                                 Doctrine, Policy, Strategy
SAASS 000           School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (SAASS)                        Doctrine, Policy, Strategy
SAASS 001           School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (SAASS) Doctoral Program       Doctrine, Policy, Strategy
No Course Number    USMC School of Advanced Warfighting (SAW)                               Doctrine, Policy, Strategy
No Course Number    US Army School of Advanced Military Studies (SAMS)                      Doctrine, Policy, Strategy
No Course Number    Maritime Advanced Warfighting School (MAWS)                             Doctrine, Policy, Strategy
X5OZD14N4 0A8A      National Senior Intelligence Course (NSIC) – DIA                        Doctrine, Policy, Strategy
X5OZK14N4 0A9A      Financial Management of Intelligence Training (FMIT) – DIA              Financial Management
EC AIC              USAF EC Academic Instructor Course (USAF EC)                            Education & Training
WBT UDM             Unit Deployment Manager Course (USAF EC)                                Education & Training
3J5ACC3S200 000     ACC Classroom Instructor Course                                         Education & Training
5ACC3S200-003       AOC Academic Instructor Course (AIC)                                    Education & Training
ACC IPT PGM DEV     ACC Intelligence Personnel Training Program Development                 Education & Training
MAFROTC002          AFROTC Asst Prof of Aerospace Studies Instructor and Orientation Crse   Education & Training
MAFROTC005          AFROTC Detachment Commander Instructor and Orientation Course           Education & Training
X3AIRTXXXX 0B2A     Basic Instructor Course - AETC                                          Education & Training
X3AIRTXXXX 0F1A     Fundamentals of Instructional Systems Development (FISD) - AETC         Education & Training
X3AIRTXXXX 0M2A     Training Management - AETC                                              Education & Training
X3AIRXXXXX 0C1A     Computer Based Instruction (CBI) Designer - AETC                        Education & Training
X3AIRTXXXX 0W1A     Technical Writer - AETC                                                 Education & Training

                                                                                                             51
X3AIRTXXXX 0C8A      Objectives and Tests - AETC                                     Education & Training
MCPD001              Eaker College Academic Instructor Course - AU                   Education & Training



Note: Information on additional training, education, and professional development program listings may be
found at the following resources:

- AF Education and Training Catalog, https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
- DIA, DTRA, NSA, NGA and NRO SIPRNET and JWICS websites

Section C—Support Material
NOTE: There are currently no support material requirements. This area is reserved.

Section D—MAJCOM Unique Requirements
NOTE: There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                              LARRY D. JAMES, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                      Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                                        Surveillance and Reconnaissance




Attachments
1. Intelligence Officer Initial Skills Training (ISR 100) CTS
2. Intelligence Officer Intermediate Skills Course (ISR 200) CTS
3. Intelligence Officer Master Skills Course (ISR 300) CTS
4. Intelligence Officer Master Skills Course (ISR 400) CTS
5. Training Proficiency Code Key
6. ISR Professional Development Certification Plan




                                                                                                    52
                                             ATTACHMENT 1

                                        X3OBR14N1 0A1C
                                 INTELLIGENCE OFFICER COURSE


                                  Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level


1. Apply Intelligence Fundamentals                                         2b

2. Apply Security                                                          2b

3. Perform Analysis                                                        2c

4. Apply Communication Skills                                              3c

5. Intelligence Disciplines                                                B

6. Intelligence Community                                                  B

7. Utilize ISR Information Systems                                         2b

8. Utilize Research Sources and Methods                                    2b

9. Presentation of Forces                                                  A

10. Weapons Systems                                                        B

11. Adversary Capabilities                                                 B

12. Perform ISR Operations                                                 2b

13. Targeting                                                              B

14. Perform Integration                                                    2b

15. Perform Simulated Operations/Exercises                                 2b

16. Utilize Geospatial Information and Services                            2b

17. Electromagnetic Theory                                                 B

18. World Issues and Concerns                                              A




                                                                           53
                     ATTACHMENT 2

INTELLIGENCE OFFICER INTERMEDIATE SKILLS COURSE (ISR 200)




         COURSE CURRENTLY UNDER DEVELOPMENT




                                                            54
                  ATTACHMENT 3

INTELLIGENCE OFFICER MASTER SKILLS COURSE (ISR 300)




      COURSE CURRENTLY UNDER DEVELOPMENT




                                                      55
                  ATTACHMENT 4

INTELLIGENCE OFFICER SENIOR SKILLS COURSE (ISR 300)




     COURSE CURRENTLY UNDER DEVELOPMENT




                                                      56
                                                                      ATTACHMENT 5

                                                   TRAINING PROFICIENCY CODE KEY

                                                        QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                            Proficiency Code Key
                                  Scale       Definition: The individual
                                  Value
                                    1         Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                              Limited)
        Task                        2         Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)

    Performance                     3         Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)

       Levels                       4         Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                              (Highly Proficient)
                                    a         Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)

       *Task                        b         Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)

     Knowledge                      c         Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                              (Operating Principles)
         Levels                    d          Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)

                                   A          Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)

     **Subject                     B          Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)

     Knowledge                     C          Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)

       Levels                      D          Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This make is used alone in course columns to show that training required but not given due to limitations in resources.

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                                                                                                      57
                 ATTACHMENT 6

ISR PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT CERTIFICATION PLAN




CERTIFICATION PLAN CURRENTLY UNDER DEVELOPMENT




                                                  58
