DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                   CFETP 4H0X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                                       Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1000                                                                   28 February 2013




                            Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) 4H0X1

                            CARDIOPULMONARY LABORATORY




                                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                                     AND TRAINING PLAN

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for
downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                               CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                          CARDIOPULMONARY
                                              AFSC 4H0X1

                                                   Table of Contents

PART I

Preface                                                                         4

Abbreviations/Terms Explained                                                   5

Section A, General Information                                                  9

1. Purpose of the CFETP

2. Uses of the CFETP

3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B, Career Progression and Information                                   12

1. Specialty Description

2. Skill/Career Progression
Apprentice (3-Skill Level)
Journeyman (5-Skill Level)
Craftsman (7-Skill Level)
Superintendent (9-Skill Level)

3. Training Decisions

4. Community College of the Air Force

5. Active Duty 4E0X1 Career Field Path

Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements                                    17

1. Purpose

2.   Specialty Qualification Requirements (Apprentice through Superintendent)
a.   Knowledge
b.   Education
c.   Training
d.   Experience
e.   Other
f.   Training Sources
g.   Implementation

Section D, Resource Constraints                                                 18

Section E, Transition Training Guide                                            20

                                                            2
PART II

Section A, Specialty Training Standard                                               21

1. Training Implementation Procedures

2. Structure

3. Recommendations for Feedback on Product/Process

4. Proficiency Code Key

5. Specialty Training Standard (STS)

Section B, Course Objectives List                                                    38

Section C, Support Material                                                          39

Section D, Training Course Index                                                     40

1. Air Force In-Residence Courses

2. Education, Logistics, and Communications (A4/6) Courses and Exportable/Distance
Learning Courses

Section E, MAJCOM-Unique Requirements                                                41

Section F, Training Development & Documentation                                      43




OPR: AF/SG1E (CMSgt Tundra T. Gatewood)
Certified by: 4H0X1 CFM (CMSgt Dario Rodriquez)
Supersedes: CFETP 4H0X1, 1 November 2007
Pages: 43




                                                         3
Part I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and training document that
identifies life-cycle education and training requirements, training support resources, and core task requirements for this
specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and will instill rigor in all aspects of career
field training. The clear expectation is that cardiopulmonary personnel will be utilized to the full extent of their
knowledge/task certification. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions
will use Part II to support duty-position qualification training. To read, review, or print a copy of the current CFETP, go
to http://www.e-publishing.af.mil .

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors plan, manage, and control training within the specialty using both parts
of the plan.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty.

2.1.1. Section A explains the purpose for and how everyone will use the plan.

2.1.2. Section B identifies career field progression, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path.

2.1.3. Section C associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, experience, training, and
other).

2.1.4. Section D indicates resource/training constraints such as funds, manpower, equipment, facilities, etc.

2.1.5. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

2.2. Part II contains six sections. At the unit level, supervisors and trainers use Part II to identify, plan and conduct
training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

2.2.1. Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, training references (TRs) to
support training, Air Education and Training Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course, core task, and
correspondence course requirements.

2.2.2. Section B contains the course objective list (COL) and training standards supervisors will use to determine if
Airmen satisfied training requirements.

2.2.3. Section C identifies available support materials that have been developed and are mandatory for use to support on-
the-job training (OJT).

2.2.4. Section D contains a training course index supervisors can use to determine resources available to support training.
Included are both mandatory and optional courses.

2.2.5. Section E identifies major command (MAJCOM) unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine
additional training required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to
identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

2.2.6. Section F is specific to medical Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSC) and provides guidance on required
documentation in the enlisted training and competency folder. At the unit level, supervisors and trainers use Part II to
identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.


                                                                4
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

The Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC). Established in 1979, the AAAHC encourages
and assists ambulatory health care organizations to provide the highest achievable level of care for recipients in the most
efficient and economically sound manner. The AAAHC accomplishes this by the operation of a peer-based assessment,
consultation, education, and accreditation program. [http://www.aaahc.org]

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course that provides individuals who are qualified in one or more positions of their
Air Force specialty (AFS) with additional skills and knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field. Training is
for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). The AFCFM is the Air Force (AF) focal point for the designated career
field within a functional community. Serves as the primary advocate for the career field, addressing issues and
coordinating functional concerns across various staffs. Responsible for the career field policy and guidance.

Air Force Specialty (AFS). A group of positions (with the same title and code) that require common qualifications.

Air Force Training Record (AFTR). Electronic record of individual training.

Air Reserve Components (ARC). An overarching term when referring to both the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air
Force Reserve (AFR) together.

Center for Sustainment of Trauma and Readiness Skills (C-STARS). C-STARS is a training platform that places
military physicians, nurses, and technicians into civilian trauma center that care for large numbers of trauma and critical
care patients. Located in Cincinnati, the course’s lecture series and skills labs are specifically designed for personnel
assigned to Critical Care Air Transport Team (CCATT) Unit Type Codes (UTCs). It is a14-day course designed to
optimize the student’s prior knowledge of CCATT clinical scenarios and equipment. In addition, it fulfills CCATT
sustainment goals and 4H0X1 Readiness Skills Verification requirements.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Certification Official (also known as Task Certifier). A person who determines an individual’s ability to perform a
task to required standards.

Certified Respiratory Therapist (CRT). Respiratory therapy credential awarded by National Board for Respiratory
Care (NBRC).

Committee on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC). CoARC is responsible for assuring that respiratory
therapy education programs comply with their standards. Its representatives evaluate applications for accreditation and
perform periodic reviews on respiratory therapy programs. CoARC’s mission is to promote quality respiratory therapy
education through accreditation services.

Core Task. Task the AFCFM identifies as a mandatory qualification requirement for upgrade to a particular skill level.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication, derived from initial/advanced skills course training standard, identifying
the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-skill level in this career field.
Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AETCI 36-2201, Technical and
basic Military Training Evaluation.

Critical Care Air Transport Team (CCATT). Comprised of a doctor, nurse, and respiratory therapist who all have had
critical care experience and specialized training. These teams provide in-flight patient movement and stabilization
capabilities for the theater of operations commanders.


                                                              5
Expeditionary Medical Support (EMEDS). Medical ensemble of people and equipment that is part of the staged,
deployable concept of operations. The EMEDS course provides field operational training for personnel assigned to
EMEDS (UTC). The course simulates a real deployment, allowing students the chance to practice their skills in an actual
field setting.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other necessary means
to supplement training.

Functional Manager (FM). Senior enlisted leaders designated by the appropriate functional authority to provide day-to-
day management responsibility over specific functional communities at the MAJCOM, Field Operating Agency, Direct
Reporting Unit, or ARC level. While they should maintain an institutional focus with regards to resource development
and distribution, FMs are responsible for ensuring their specialties are equipped, developed, and sustained to meet the
functional community’s mission as well as encourage force development opportunities to meet future needs of the total
AF mission.

Go. In OJT, the stage at which a trainee has gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform the tasks without
supervision. A trainee given the “Go” on a task is signed off on the respective STS line item.

Health Service Inspection (HSI). The Air Force Inspection Agency assesses AF medical units for abilities to fulfill
peacetime and wartime missions, including evaluations of medical care and the effectiveness and efficiency of medical
management. AF medical units are rated based on health care delivery, resources, and readiness. HSIs are normally
conducted every 3 years.

Home Station Training. Includes all training required to perform in the current duty position to include duty position
tasks, core tasks, READY program tasks, contingency tasks, and additional duty tasks.

Initial Skills Training. A formal course that awards a 3 skill level for an AFS.

Master Task List (MTL). A comprehensive list of duty position requirements and tasks, contingency tasks, and
additional duties performed by work center personnel.

Master Training Plan (MTP). A strategy for ensuring the completion of all work center duty position requirements (e.g.
100% task coverage). The MTP includes job requirements, milestones, deployment/UTC, home station training tasks,
upgrade, and qualification tasks.

Medical Education and Training Campus (METC). METC is the DoD’s Tri-Service medical training platform located
at Fort Sam Houston, TX,

Military Treatment Facility (MTF). An MTF is a medical facility (hospital, clinic, etc.) owned and operated by one of
the component Services of the Department of Defense, and is usually located on or near a military installation.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey of tasks performed
within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify personnel in both upgrade (skill-
level award) and job qualification (duty-position certification) training.

Phase I and II Training. Phase I and II training completes the apprentice level awarding course. Phase I, conducted at
Fort Sam Houston, TX, is mostly academic classroom training. Phase II, at an MTF location, is a continuation of the
formal resident course that provides Airmen with realistic hands-on experience. Phase II must be completed before
beginning OJT at the permanent duty location.

Qualification Training (QT). Hands-on performance training designed to qualify personnel in a specific position. This
training occurs both during and after upgrade training to maintain up-to-date qualifications. ARC: See Part II, Section E.
                                                             6
Readiness Skills Verification Program (RSVP). AFSC sustainment training designed to ensure all members with a
fully qualified AFSC maintain the currency of skills to perform their duties in a deployed setting. NOTE: Refer to the
Air Force Medical Service (AFMS) Knowledge Exchange website (https://kx.afms.mil/GlobalMedSupTngEx) for AFSC-
specific readiness skills training. Also training hours conducted during formal training, and 5-skill level upgrade does not
satisfy RSVP training requirements.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and equipment that preclude
desired training from being delivered.

Scope of Practice. The extent or range of task performance that cardiopulmonary personnel apply in the performance of
duties as outlined in AFSC and CFETP requirements in addition to local MTF guidance.

Special Experience Identifier (SEI). A three-number code that identifies unique skills not otherwise identified in the
personnel data system.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). Typically inserted as Part II of the CFETP), the STS describes an AFS in terms of
tasks and knowledge that an Airman in that specialty may be expected to perform or to know on the job. Also identifies
the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract between
AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal
schools and correspondence courses.

Standard. A predetermined quality or quantity, against which performance skills and knowledge is measured. An exact
value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, the appropriate authority, custom, or common consent sets up and defines
to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities or qualities, developing practices or procedures, or
evaluating results. A fixed quantity or quality.

Sustainment Training. Recurring training required to maintain skills qualification for an individual to perform the duties
required by AFSC 4H0X1. This may include formal training courses (e.g. C-STARS), ACLS, in-service training, and
exercises.

Task. An observable and measurable unit of work activity or operation that forms a part of a duty with one or more
duties making up a job.

Task Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be included in the training decision process. Task
Analysis is a product of the OSR.

Task Certifier. See Certification Official

The Joint Commission (TJC). TJC accredits and offers performance improvement services for health care
organizations. A not-for-profit organization, TJC accredits nearly 15,000 health care organizations.

Third Party Certification. Is an evaluation of completed training conducted by a second task certifier beyond the
trainer.

Trainer. A trained and qualified person who teaches personnel to perform specific tasks through OJT methods.

Training Capability. The ability of a unit or base to provide training. Authorities consider the availability of resources
(such as equipment, reference materials, qualified trainers, etc.) when determining a unit’s training capability.

Unit Training Manager (UTM). Individual appointed by the commander who monitors training for a unit.

Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training that leads to the attainment of a higher level of proficiency.

                                                             7
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum led by the AFCFM and the AETC Training Pipeline Manager
that incorporates the expertise of MAJCOM FM (MFM), subject matter experts (SME), AETC, and other training
personnel to determine career ladder training requirements.

Wartime Course. Comprised of those tasks that must be taught when courses are accelerated in a wartime environment.
Wartime tasks are the tasks to be taught in the 3-level course when the wartime courses have been activated. In response
to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3-level course in a streamlined training environment. These tasks
are only for those career fields that still need them applied to their schoolhouse tasks.




                                                             8
SECTION A – GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for the AFCFM, MFMs, commanders, training managers,
supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective and efficient career field training program.
The plan outlines training that individuals in this AFS should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their
career. The plan identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is
the AFS-specific training an individual receives upon entry into the AF or upon retraining into this specialty for award of
the 3-skill level. METC, in conjunction with the follow-on Phase II site, provides initial skills training.

1.1. UGT identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion
requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-skill level. QT is actual hands-on task performance training designed to
qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training
process and is designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is
formal specialty training used for selected Airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or
exportable advanced training courses, or OJT training provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond
the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes—some are:

1.1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training program. Also, it is
used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an individual’s career.

1.1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and recommends training
and education throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the training delivery method.

1.1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career field training program.

2. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive and cohesive training
programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop and/or revise formal resident, non-resident, and exportable training based
upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the
AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade, and proficiency
requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courses can satisfy identified requirements.
MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFSC must be identified for inclusion into this plan.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The list of courses in Part
II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approving authority for this CFETP and will conduct an annual
review of this document for currency and accuracy. MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel will identify
and coordinate on career field training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate
training.

4. Waiving Specialty Qualification Requirements. Qualification requirements for this specialty are published in the
Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD) and this CFETP. These requirements may be for entry, award or
retention of this specialty and respective skill levels. Unique circumstances may warrant waiving certain requisites.
Consideration for a waiver should not become the normal practice. However, a waiver can save training resources
without affecting career field progression or mission accomplishment when an individual possesses qualifications
equivalent to the established requirements.


                                                                9
4.1. Evaluating Waiver Requests. Supervisors, managers, and leaders must compare each waiver request individually
and against predetermined standards in order to maintain integrity of the career field. Scrutinize the individual’s task
knowledge, performance, ability to learn and transfer knowledge to performance, and his/her future within the specialty in
relation to peers. Waiver requests must consider the following factors:

4.1.1. Education. Has the individual previously completed an equivalent education or certification program (or
equivalency test)? Has the individual performed duty in an exceptional manner over an extended period of time in the
actual or equivalent AFS or civilian occupation?

4.1.2. Training. Has the individual completed an equivalent technical training course or civilian vocational training
course, certification program (or equivalency test)? Has the individual performed duty in an exceptional manner over an
extended period of time in the actual or equivalent AFS or civilian occupation?

4.1.3. Knowledge. Does the individual possess the career knowledge equivalent to current requirements?

4.1.4. Experience. Has the individual performed duty in an exceptional manner over an extended period of time in the
actual or equivalent AFS or civilian occupation? Supporting documentation must include proof of experience, such as
performance reports, training records, state or federal operating licenses, certificates of affiliation, etc.

4.1.5. Other. Does the individual possess the physical ability, aptitude, or qualifications that are equivalent to, or
commensurate with, the established requirement?

4.2. Responsibilities

4.2.1. Individual. Does the individual acknowledge possessing the prescribed training requirements? Trainees must
understand their education and training requirements, accept responsibility for training, and document task qualification.

4.2.2. Supervisor. Did the commander and supervisor fulfill their obligations to the trainee and the training program?
Level of support or involvement is not, by itself, justification for approving waivers—it may indicate problems in training
equity or other areas.

4.2.3. Training System Equity. This area relates to circumstances beyond a trainee's control such as the following.
Were training or testing conditions abnormal? Did the training or testing system provide the best opportunity for
successful completion of training requirements? Was the training or testing system flexible enough to allow for
unexpected situations or conditions? Did those responsible for the training or testing program fulfill their obligations
effectively? Depending on the facts, this area may warrant options other than approving a waiver.

4.3. Processing Waiver Requests. Process waiver requests according to AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
(Officer and Enlisted), AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.

5. Waiving Scope of Practice Tasks. Normally, enlisted medical and dental personnel operate within the guidelines
established by the CFETP. The CFETP defines the enlisted scope of practice. When the MTF executive management
team determines a need for enlisted personnel to perform tasks clearly beyond the expectations of their AFSC, the
MAJCOM Surgeon General considers and grants waivers as appropriate. Consistent with the CFETP review process,
these waivers will be reviewed annually. To request a Scope of Practice waiver to perform tasks not found in the CFETP,
refer to AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations.

5.1. Waiver requests will include the following:

5.1.1. Rationale for expanding practice to include who and where within the MTF.

5.1.2. Training protocol.

5.1.3. Procedures for competency validation/verification.
                                                              10
5.1.4. Guidelines for maintaining proficiency.

6. AFTR serves as the single, automated repository for all medical enlisted specialty training. Consult the most current
AFTR training message for detailed instructions regarding automated training documentation requirements.

6.1. Documentation. Use the automated AFTR to document all technician qualifications. NOTE: An Air Force Job
Qualification Standard (AFJQS) may be used in lieu of Part II of the CFETP only upon approval of the AFCFM. The
AFCFM may supplement these minimum documentation procedures as needed or deemed necessary for their career field.

6.2. Transcribing a new or revised CFETP. The 4H0X1 CFM will provide transcription instructions to the AFTR
program manager. This process will be seamless to the field user as all existing trainee records will be auto-transcribed.

6.3. Decertification and Recertification. When an Airman is found to be unqualified on a task previously certified for
his or her position, the supervisor deletes the previous AFTR documented certification. Appropriate remarks are entered
on the AF Form 623A, On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet, identifying the reason for decertification.
Upon subsequent recertification, document AFTR for any other training qualification.




                                                             11
SECTION B – CAREER PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

1. Specialty Description

1.1. Specialty Summary. Performs and manages cardiopulmonary functions and activities for noninvasive diagnostic
cardiac procedures, invasive diagnostic and interventional cardiac procedures, pulmonary function testing, diagnostic and
therapeutic bronchoscopies, and respiratory therapy. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 130000.

1.2. Duties and Responsibilities:

1.2.1. Performs technical cardiopulmonary tasks. Performs and supervises cardiopulmonary functions such as
electrocardiograms, exercise stress testing, and ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring. Assesses heart structures
and flows via 2-D and m-mode echocardiography, Doppler, and contrast colors. Assists physician with transesophageal
and stress echocardiography, and radionuclide and thallium studies. Interprets arrhythmias. Serves on cardiac
catheterization (invasive) procedures teams. Assists in placing specialized equipment and instruments into cardiovascular
system for diagnosis and therapy, including cardiac pacemaker and balloon pump insertion. Operates and maintains
specialized equipment to evaluate respiratory or pulmonary functions, and respiratory physiology. Performs spirometry,
flow volume loops, lung volumes, diffusion capacities, and closing volumes. Draws and analyzes arterial blood gas
samples. Maintains quality control of arterial blood gas machines and CO oximeters, including proficiency testing.
Performs bronchoprovocation and exercise testing. Assists physician with fiberoptic bronchoscopy for diagnosis and
therapy. Under orders of a physician, administers respiratory care such as oxygen and aerosol therapy, mechanical
ventilator management, and preparation and administration of respiratory medications. Assists physician with intubation
and extubation procedures. Performs endotracheal tube care. Maintains patient airway. Ensures bronchial hygiene
through incentive spirometry and specialized breathing instructions. Prepares and instructs patient to use equipment or
perform procedure. Checks patient and equipment, and changes equipment. Monitors data display on physiological
equipment, and obtains and records vital signs. Performs cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Assesses and documents
patient status. Performs user maintenance on equipment. Adheres to infection control and universal precautions
procedures, including disposition of contaminated materials. Practices safety and security measures.

1.2.2. Performs cardiopulmonary laboratory administrative, maintenance, and support functions. Ensures equipment is
calibrated to manufacturer's specifications. Cleans, disinfects, and sterilizes (or prepares for sterilization)
cardiopulmonary equipment. Operationally checks and inspects equipment. Determines inventory level of disposable
supplies; stocks accordingly; and returns excess stock. Prepares equipment requisitions. Maintains CPR cart. Ensures
emergency equipment is available and functional. Schedules patients for evaluations, procedures, and treatments.
Obtains medical records. Greets patients and answers telephone. Practices patient and coworker sensitivity. Assists with
transportation of patients to and from hospitals, and those in the air evacuation system requiring mechanical ventilation.
Maintains general correspondence, files, records, and reports. Provides biometric data.

1.2.3. Manages cardiopulmonary laboratory functions and activities. Develops staffing requirements. Determines
work priorities, methods, and procedures. Develops operating instructions and determines policies. Prepares budget
requirements. Evaluates, budgets, and justifies new equipment purchases. Establishes and maintains publications library.
Ensures compliance with credentialing agencies' standards. Participates in and manages quality assurance and
improvement (QA&I) efforts. Directs on-going continuing education and in-services, developed in part from QA&I
findings. Ensures implementation of disaster and emergency plans, as well as safety and security. Collects, analyzes, and
reports biometric data. Processes collected data for physician interpretation.

2. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the superintendent
level play an important role in the AFs ability to accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training
do his or her part to plan, manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the
CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable training at appropriate points in their career. Mandatory requirements
for award of each skill level are found in Section C.

2.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Award of the 3 skill level requires successful completion of the initial skills training provided
by two consecutive, Phase I & II, in-resident courses. Cardiopulmonary Apprentice (Phase I) is located at METC and
                                                              12
includes 2 days of Expeditionary Medical Readiness skill at Camp Bullis, Texas. When directed by Headquarters United
States Air Force, the apprentice course will convert to a wartime course mode essentially condensing all training to Fort
Sam Houston. NOTE: Reference the Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA), which is located at
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/, for current course numbers.

2.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Award of the 5-skill level requires 12 months UGT time and begins at the first permanent
duty station after Phase II graduation (9 months for cross-trainees). During UGT, trainees work side-by-side with their
supervisor and trainers to qualify on all core and duty position tasks. Through sufficient time and OJT, personnel build
their confidence, skills, and abilities, finally becoming fully proficient at their 5-level core tasks and duties. Once
upgraded, 5-skill level personnel are eligible to attend supplementary training such as CCATT, EMEDS, and CSTARS.
The journeyman should pursue educational and credentialing opportunities to enhance their careers. SrA are eligible to
attend Airman Leadership School (ALS). ALS is required to assume the rank of SSgt. Additionally, award of CRT
credential by the National Board for Respiratory Care is required within 6 months from award of 5-skill level to maintain
4H0X1 AFSC (waiverable only by AFCFM).

2.3. Craftsman (7) Level. Award of the 7-skill level requires a rank of SSgt, 12 months UGT time (6 months for cross-
trainees who previously held a 7 skill level in prior AFSC) from beginning of promotion cycle, completion of all core and
duty position tasks, and recommendation by the supervisor and approved by the commander. The craftsman starts
assuming some supervisory responsibilities while still maintaining high levels of proficiency. To assume the rank of
MSgt, completion of resident Noncommissioned Officer (NCO) Academy (NCOA) completion is required. Upon
selection to MSgt, Senior Noncommissioned Officer (SNCO) Professional Military Education (PME) by correspondence
is optional, but highly encouraged, and required for senior rater endorsement eligibility.

2.4. Superintendent (9) Level. Award of the 9 skill level requires an individual be a least a SMSgt or CMSgt. Resident
SNCO Academy (SNCOA) completion is required to assume the rank of CMSgt.

3. Training Decisions. This CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass the entire
spectrum of training requirements for the cardiopulmonary career field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when,
where, and how to meet the training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of
training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training. The 4H0X1 Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) held
15-18 November 2011 in Fort Sam Houston, TX identified the training requirements in this CFETP. The following key
decisions and changes resulted from the U&TW:

3.1. Initial Skills. Initial skills course content (3-skill level) shifted more knowledge-based items from Phase II to Phase
I. This allows increased focus at Phase II on task skills inherent to our career field such as respiratory therapy.

3.2. 5-Level Upgrade Requirements. Participants of the U&TW wanted to clarify when the 12-month UGT time began
due to inconsistencies in the previous CFETP. The final decision and verbiage shall state that the 12-month UGT time for
5 skill level will begin after Phase II— when the graduate signs in at their first duty assignment (Date Arrived Station). A
working group is currently looking into development of courseware to augment upgrade/sustainment training. Results
will be published in subsequent guidance.

3.3. 7-Level Upgrade Requirements. U&TW participants discussed the content of the 7-level CDC for its value to
cardiopulmonary upgrade training. The majority of the CDC repeated subject matter taught in PME or other ancillary
training—a practice strictly forbidden by AF guidance. Therefore, participants overwhelmingly voted to dissolve the 7-
level CDC program. A working group is currently looking into development of courseware to augment
upgrade/sustainment training. Results will be published in subsequent guidance.

3.4. Proficiency Training. The U&TW members expressed interest in teaching supervisors more of the OJT process.
Supervisors must educate themselves on the OJT Program and its purpose. Additionally, supervisors should consult with
their UTM during the whole process. For both 5-level and 7-level upgrade, core and duty position tasks will be signed-off
to the “Go” level. The “Go” level equates to the 3c proficiency code, requiring the trainee to accomplish the task
completely and without error or assistance. The duration of UGT is a crucial component of the upgrade process,
providing the necessary time to “season” the trainee into becoming a competent cardiopulmonary technician. For the
                                                             13
added benefit of supervisors and trainees, additional assistance on OJT is found in Part II, Section F, Cardiopulmonary
On-the-Job Training (OJT).

4. Education and Credentialing

4.1. CCAF. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to
obtain an Associate of Applied Sciences degree. In addition to its associate degree program, CCAF offers the following:

4.1.1. Occupational Instructor Certificate. Upon completion of instructor qualification training, consisting of the
instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF instructors who possess an associate’s degree or higher
may be nominated by their school commander/commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.

4.1.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill certification is awarded for the
primary occupational specialty. CCAF uses a competency-based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of
the four proficiency levels: Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman (Supervisor), or Master Craftsman (Manager). All are
transcribed on the CCAF transcript.

4.1.3. Degree requirements. The following degree requirements were obtained from the 2011-2013 CCAF Catalog. All
Airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Prior to completing an associate degree, the journeyman (5)
level must be awarded and the following requirements must be met:

Subject                                                          Semester Hours (SH)
Technical Education                                              24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                     6
Physical Education                                               4
General Education                                                15
Program Electives                                                15
Total requirements:                                              64
A student must have a minimum of 16 SHs of CCAF credit applied to their degree program to graduate. The 16-SH
residency requirement is only satisfied by credit earned for basic military training or coursework completed in an
affiliated school or through internship credit awarded for progression in an AF occupational specialty.

4.1.3.1. Technical Education (24 SH). A minimum of 12 SHs of technical core subjects or courses must be applied and
the remaining SHs applied from technical core or technical elective subjects or courses. Requests to substitute
comparable courses or to exceed specified SH values in any subject or course must be approved in advance.

  Technical Core                                                     Maximum SHs
  Advanced Cardiopulmonary Procedures                                9
  Cardiopulmonary Anatomy and Physiology                             6
  Cardiopulmonary Instrumentation                                    3
  Cardiopulmonary Invasive/Noninvasive Diagnostic Procedures         12
  Cardiopulmonary and Pulmonary Diagnostic Principles                8
  CCAF Internship                                                    18
  Clinical Respiratory Therapy                                       8
  Pulmonary Diagnostic Procedures                                    8
  Respiratory Therapy                                                6

  Technical Electives                                                Maximum SHs
  Computer Science                                                   6
  Emergency Medicine                                                 3
  Medical Readiness                                                  3
  Medical Terminology                                                3

                                                            14
Technical education requirements are generally satisfied by entry-level and advanced degree-applicable courses at
affiliated schools and through internship. However, additional technical education requirements may be satisfied by
application of courses accepted in transfer, testing credit, independent study or correspondence, certification, licensure, or
registry.

4.1.3.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (LMMS) Requirement (6 SHs). This requirement may be
satisfied by applying PME or civilian courses accepted in transfer and/or by testing credit. However, the preferred
method of completing LMMS studies is through attending an ALS, NCOA, and/or SNCOA.

4.1.3.3. Physical Education Requirement (4 SHs). Completing basic military training satisfies the 4-semester-hour
physical education requirement. Civilian courses do not apply to this requirement.

4.1.3.4. General Education Requirement (15 SHs). The general education requirement is satisfied by applying courses
accepted in transfer or by testing credit. Courses required to satisfy the general education requirement are as follows:

  Subject/Courses                                                      SHs

  Oral Communication                                                   3
  Speech

  Written Communication                                                3
  English Composition

  Mathematics                                                          3
  Intermediate algebra or a college-level mathematics
  course satisfying delivering institution's mathematics
  graduation requirement; if an acceptable mathematics
  course applies as technical or program elective, you may
  substitute a natural science course for mathematics.

  Social Science                                                       3
  Anthropology, archaeology, economics, geography,
  government, history, political science, psychology,
  sociology

  Humanities                                                           3
  Fine arts (criticism, appreciation, historical significance),
  foreign language, literature, philosophy, religion

4.1.3.5. Program Elective Requirement (15 SHs). Courses applying to technical education, LMMS, or general
education requirements; natural science courses meeting general education requirement application criteria; foreign
language credit earned at Defense Language Institute or through the Defense Language Proficiency Test; maximum 9 SHs
of CCAF degree-applicable technical course credit otherwise not applicable to program of enrollment.

4.1.4. AETC Instructor Requirements. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all.
AETC Instructors are required to possess an associate degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation
through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. The CRT credential is a minimum requirement for all Phase
I/II instructors.

4.2. Professional Credentialing. The CoARC accredits the Cardiopulmonary Apprentice Course. The following
credentials are available in pulmonary and respiratory therapy: Certified Pulmonary Function Technologist (CPFT),
Registered Pulmonary Function Technologist (RPFT), Certified Respiratory Therapist (CRT), and Registered Respiratory
Therapist (RRT). Validate eligibility through www.nbrc.org.

                                                                  15
Credentialing is also available in the cardiovascular arena as well. The following credentials are available from a variety
of sources: Certified Cardiographic Technician (CCT), Registered Diagnostic Cardiac Sonographer (RDCS), Registered
Vascular Specialist (RVS), Registered Cardiac Sonographer (RCS), Registered Vascular Technologist (RVT), and
Registered Cardiovascular Invasive Specialist (RCIS). Eligibility for the CCT examination is granted during Phase II
upon completion of the cardiology block of instruction with clinical verification from a physician. Cardiovascular
Credentialing International (CCI) is the National Credentialing Agency for CCT, RVS, RCS, and RCIS. American
Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography (ARDMS) is the National Credentialing Agency for RDCS and RVT. For
more information about the requirements necessary for any of these credentials, please visit www.cci-online.org and
http://www.ardms.org .

5. Career Field Path

5.1. Review the AFMS Flight Path (Attachment 3) for grade demographics and career progression information.


                               AFMS Enlisted Corps Force Development Pathway




                                                             16
SECTION C – SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

1. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this specialty are defined in terms of tasks and knowledge requirements.
This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes
the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each skill level. The STS, Part II, Sections A and B of this
CFETP, identifies specific task and knowledge training requirements.

2. Specialty Qualification

2.1. Apprentice Level Training.

2.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of the following is mandatory: general anatomy and physiology; cardiopulmonary
system structures and functions; basic pharmacology; patient care theory, procedures, and techniques; medical
terminology; aseptic techniques; medical ethics; resuscitation techniques; maintaining and operating cardiopulmonary
diagnostic and therapeutic equipment; medications; and medical computer systems, readiness, and resources management.

2.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, the following college courses are required: oral communication (speech,
3 semester hours), written communication (English composition, 3 semester hours), mathematics (intermediate algebra or
a college-level mathematics course satisfying delivering institution's mathematics graduation requirement; if an acceptable
mathematics course applies as technical or program elective, you may substitute a natural science course for mathematics,
3 semester hours), social science (anthropology, archaeology, economics, geography, government, history, political
science, psychology, sociology, 3 semester hours), humanities (fine arts (criticism, appreciation, historical significance),
foreign language, literature, philosophy, religion, 3 semester hours), and leadership, management, and military studies (6
semester hours). CCAF maintains the most current catalog defining acceptable degree course requirements, which is
accessible at www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf.

2.1.3. Training. Completion of the Cardiopulmonary Apprentice Course, Phase I and II, is mandatory for award of the
3-skill level.

2.1.4. Experience. No additional experience is required for award of the 3-skill level.

2.1.5. Training Sources and Resources. All training references and resources will be provided for the apprentice-level
trainee by the Phase I and II courses.

2.1.6. Implementation. The 4H031 is awarded upon graduation from the Phase II course.

2.2. Journeyman Level training.

2.2.1. Knowledge. Minimum knowledge-level are those labeled as 5-level core tasks. Additional duty position
requirements may vary from unit to unit.

2.2.2. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4H031. Also, experience performing diagnostic and
therapeutic procedures to care for and treat cardiopulmonary patients.

2.2.3. Training Sources and Resources. Units will supply, within their scope of practice, all resources for UGT.

2.2.4. Implementation. Award of the 5-skill level consists of the following: (1) Completion of 12 months UGT time;
(2) Completion of all core tasks identified in the CFETP and all duty-position tasks identified by the supervisor; and (3)
Recommendation of the supervisor for approval by the commander.

2.3. Craftsman Level Training.



                                                             17
2.3.1. Knowledge. Minimum knowledge-level are those labeled as 5-level core tasks. Additional duty position
requirements may vary from unit to unit.

2.3.2. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4H051. Also, experience performing or supervising
diagnostic and therapeutic procedures to care for and treat cardiopulmonary patients or operation of cardiopulmonary and
respiratory equipment.

2.3.3. Training Sources and Resources. Units will supply, within their scope of practice, all resources for UGT.

2.3.4. Implementation. Award of the 7-skill level consists of the following: (1) Completion of 12 months UGT time (6
months for cross-trainees who held a 7 level in prior AFSC); (2) Completion of all core tasks identified in the CFETP and
all duty position tasks identified by the supervisor; and (3) Recommendation of the supervisor for approval by the
commander.

2.4. Superintendent Level Training.

2.4.1. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4H071. Also, experience managing diagnostic and
therapeutic activities involving patient care and treatment.

2.4.2. Implementation. With recommendation of the supervisor and approval by the commander, the 9-skill level,
Superintendent, is awarded upon sew-on of SMSgt.

3. Other. See the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), Attachment 4 – Additional Mandatory
Requirements for AFSC Entry, for other additional entry requirements.




                                                            18
SECTION D – RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

1. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints, which preclude optimal and desired training from being
developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource
constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in
this section are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will
be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

2. Apprentice Level Training:

2.1. Constraints:

2.1.1. Phase II sites must be able to meet the minimum of 200 hours of actual ventilated patient care per student.

2.1.2. Evaluation of Phase II sites required to determine in-house acuity. If not able to support the desired patient contact
requirement, implement action to establish memorandum of understanding/training affiliation agreements with other
medical facilities.




                                                             19
SECTION E – TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE

There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                             20
PART II

SECTION A – SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD (STS) FOR AFSC 4H0X1

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for Cardiopulmonary Apprentice technical training provided
by AETC with classes beginning April 2013.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

2.1. Lists, in column 1, the most common tasks, knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for
Airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level. TRs in the source summary are commercial
publications or other service publications that are essential for OJT and mission accomplishment and are
referenced by title throughout the STS. The unit OJT section will consolidate the requirements for the
unit supported and order publications through the hospital/clinic library activity. Column 1 identifies,
with an asterisk (*), those task/knowledge items that are trained during the resident wartime course.
Column 2 identifies core tasks, per skill level (i.e. “5” or “7”), for UGT requirements.

2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge
training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document technician
qualifications. Task certification must show a certification or completion date.

2.3. Contains Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate
the level of training and knowledge provided by the resident training courses.

2.4. Is used to document tasks when placed in the AFTR. Refer to AFI 36-2201 for further guidance on
documentation, transcribing, certification, decertification, and recertification.

2.5. Is used as a performance standard. Tasks are trained and qualified to the “Go” level. “Go” means the
individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local demands for accuracy, timeliness, and
correct use of procedures (“Go” level equates to “3c” in the STS proficiency code key).

2.6. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System
(WAPS). The Specialty Knowledge Test is developed at the AETC Occupational Analysis Division, by
SNCOs with extensive practical experience in their career field. The test samples knowledge of STS
subject-matter areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to
higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual
responsibilities are in AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force (Chapter 14). WAPS is
not applicable to the ANG.

3. Deployment Tasks. The CFM has recommended that 4H0X1 personnel train on the task/knowledge
items listed in Table A – Deployment Task Listing prior to a deployment. Upon notification of a UTC
tasking, personnel should refer to this list and arrange to complete their RSVP. Members should utilize
internal training sources first and their associated skills labs, or locally-developed equivalents. If
members cannot obtain these RSVP skills locally, members may attend a CSTARS platform.




                                                   21
Table A. Deployment Task Listing
•   Manage burns
•   Apply cervical collar
•   Trauma patient assessment
•   Perform cricothyroidotomy
•   Manage multi-system trauma
•   Shock and control of bleeding
•   Perform pre-hospital/field triage
•   Establish intravenous drip rates
•   Monitor intravenous infusion/complications
•   Perform needle thoracostomy for tension pneumothorax
•   Control bleeding from shunt or invasive monitoring/therapy line

4. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates through proper
channels to 937 TRG/TTA, 2931 Harney Path, Fort Sam Houston, TX 78234. Be sure to reference
specific STS paragraphs when forwarding reports. For a quick response to concerns, supervisors may call
the 24-hour customer service information line: DSN 420-1080, Commercial (210) 808-1080.


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE

OFFICIAL




                                                         THOMAS W. TRAVIS
                                                         Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                                         Surgeon General

Attachments (4)
1. Qualitative Requirements
2. STS: Cardiopulmonary (4H0X1)
3. Training Reference (TR) Bibliography
4. Special Experience Identifiers (SEIs)




                                                    22
                                         Section A – Cardiopulmonary Laboratory (4H0X1) STS


This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                      Initials (Written)              SSAN

                                         Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                               N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

                                                    QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                              Proficiency Code Key
                                 Scale        Definition: The individual
                                 Value
                                   1          Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task.
                                              (Extremely Limited)
          Task                      2         Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance                   3         Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                     4         Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the
                                              task. (Highly Proficient)
                                    a         Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
   *Task Knowledge                  b         Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
        Levels                      c         Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                              (Operating Principles)
                                    d         Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                    A         Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
**Subject Knowledge                           Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject.
        Levels                      B         (Principles)

                                    C         Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
                                    D         Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.
- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.
X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.


NOTE 1: An "*" designates task and knowledge items trained during the resident apprentice level wartime course.
NOTE 2: Training References (TRs) listed in Column 1 and in the bibliography are approved for use in formal course and MTP development.
NOTE 3: Tasks designated with a "5" or a "7" in Column 2 are core tasks for 5- or 7-level UGT respectively. If a core task is required for both
skill levels, then "5/7" is posted.
NOTE 4: The AFCFM has determined that tasks will not require a third party task certifier; therefore, column E does not need a Certifier's
Initials for task completion.
NOTE 5: Columns 4 (A1, A2) specify the level of training provided by the 3 skill level resident Phase I and Phase II courses. During OJT, tasks
are trained and evaluated to the "Go" level.




                                                                         23
                                                       1.                                       2.                           3.                             4.
Note 1

                                    Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 Core                Certification For OJT             Proficiency Codes
                                                    (Note 2)                                  Tasks                      (Note 4)                      (See Note 5)
                                                                                             (Note 3)      A        B       C       D        E        (A1)      (A2)
                                                                                                        Training Training Trainee Trainer Certifier Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                         Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials



             1. CARDIOPULMONARY CAREER FIELD
             TR: CFETP 4H031; AFPD 41-2; AFMAN 36-2108
         *   1.1. Career Ladder Progression                                                     5/7                                  A     -
         *   1.2. Duties                                                                        5/7                                  B     -
             1.3. USAF Medical Service                                                                                               -     -
         *   1.3.1. Mission                                                                      7                                   A     -
         *   1.3.2. Organization                                                                 7                                   A     -
         *   1.3.3. Function                                                                     7                                   A     -
             1.4. Career enhancement/credentials                                                 7                                   B     -
             2. MEDICAL READINESSES
             (Initial Medical Readiness Training, directed by AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Program Management, is provided in the Basic
               Medical Readiness course, conducted at the 937th Training Group, Camp Bullis, TX. Completed training is documented on AF
               Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, for each course graduate. Continuing/ ongoing medical readiness
               training for the individual is the responsibility of each medical facility.)

             3. SAFETY IN THE CARDIOPULMONARY ENVIRONMENT
             TR: AFI 91-202; AFI-91-302; Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 29
         *   3.1. AFOSH Program Standards                                                         5                                   A                         B
         *   3.2. Hazards                                                                         5                                   A                         B
         *   3.3. General safety principles                                                       5                                   A                         B
             3.4. Apply safety practices
         *   3.4.1. Electrical equipment                                                          5                                   b                         3c
         *   3.4.2. Compressed Gases                                                              5                                   b                         3c
         *   3.4.3. Caustic and corrosive chemicals                                               5                                   b                         3c
         *   3.4.4. Drugs and solutions                                                           5                                   b                         3c
         *   3.4.5. Sharp instruments and glassware                                               5                                  2b                         3c
         *   3.4.6. Personal protective equipment                                                 5                                  2b                         3c
             3.5. Accident reporting                                                             5/7                                  b                         2b
             4. MEDICAL MATERIEL
             TR: AFMAN 23-220; AFMAN 23-110
             4.1. Materiel Categories                                                                                                 -                          -
             4.2. Prepare request for issue/turn-in for supplies                                  7                                   -                          -
             4.3. Prepare request for issue/turn-in for equipment                                 7                                   -                          -
         *   4.4. Air Force accountability                                                       5/7                                  A                          -
         *   4.5. Report of survey system                                                         7                                   A                          -
             5. RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
             TR: AFMAN 23-110; AFI 41-102; DOD 3010.13M
         *   5.1. Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System (MEPRS)                        5                                   A                          -
             5.2 Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA)
             5.2.1. Diagnosis coding                                                                                                  -                          -
             5.2.2. Procedure coding                                                                                                  -                          -
             5.3. Unit Manning Documents and Unit Personnel Manning Roster                        7                                   -                          -
             5.4. Develop staffing plans                                                          7                                   -                          -
             5.5. Develop budgeting requirements                                                  7                                   -                          -
             5.6. Defense Medical Human Resource Systems internet                                                                     -                          -
             6. ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONS
             TR: AFI 44-102; AFI 44-119; AFPD 44-1
         *   6.1. Utilize Medical Information Systems                                                                                 -                         2b
         *   6.2. Use proper telephone techniques                                                 5                                   -                          -
             6.3. Schedule patients for medical Procedures                                        5                                   -                          -
         *   6.4. Joint Commission/AAAHC                                                          7                                   A                          -
         *   6.5. Health Services Inspection (HSI)                                                7                                   A                          -
             6.6. Self-Inspection Program                                                         7                                   -                          -
             7. FUNDAMENTALS OF PATIENT CARE
             TR: Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 11, 26, 29, 33, 52, 59; Clinical Assessment in Respiratory Care, Chap 1;
              Fundamentals of Respiratory Care, Chap 51; The Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America.
             7.1. Professional and patient relationships

                                                                                 24
                                                        1.                                       2.                           3.                             4.
Note 1

                                     Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 Core                Certification For OJT             Proficiency Codes
                                                     (Note 2)                                  Tasks                      (Note 4)                      (See Note 5)
                                                                                              (Note 3)      A        B       C       D        E        (A1)      (A2)
                                                                                                         Training Training Trainee Trainer Certifier Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                          Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials



         * 7.1.1. Professional relationships                                                      5                                                         B     -
         * 7.1.2. Professional standards                                                          5                                                         B     -
         * 7.1.3. Medical Ethics                                                                  5                                                         B     -

         *    7.2. Patient sensitivity                                                              5                                                       B     -
         *    7.3. Provide patient instruction/education                                            5                                                       B     -
         *    7.4. Basic psychology of human needs                                                  5                                                       B     -
         *    7.5. Structure and function of human body                                             5                                                       B     -
         *    7.6. Cardiopulmonary risk factors                                                     5                                                       B     -
              7.7. Microbiology
         *    7.7.1. Bacterial vs. viral hematology                                                 5                                                       B     -
         *    7.7.2. Airborne vs. Bloodborne Pathogens                                              5                                                       B     -
         *    7.7.3. Infection control                                                              5                                                       B     -
         *    7.7.4. Incorporate ventilator-associated pneumonia protocol                           5                                                       b    3c
         *   7.7.5. Implement infectious disease protocols e.g., • avian flu • SARS •               5                                                       b    3c
                    transmission prevention
         *    7.7.6. Demonstrate adherence to infection control policies and procedures e.g.,       5                                                       b    3c
                      Standard Precautions
         *    7.7.7. Clean equipment                                                                5                                                       b    3c
         *    7.7.8. Disinfect equipment                                                            5                                                       b    3c
         *    7.7.9. Sterilize equipment                                                            5                                                       b    3c
         *    7.7.10. Assure proper handling of biohazardous materials                                                                                      b    3c
              7.8. Apply aseptic techniques                                                                                                                 b    3c
              7.9. Assist physician with moderate (conscious) sedation                                                                                      a    3c
              8. PATIENT DATA EVALUATION AND RECOMMENDATIONS
              TR: Clinical Assessment in Respiratory Care, Chap 1, 2, 8, 13, 19
              8.1. Review Data in the Patient Record
              8.1.1. Patient history                                                                                                                        b    2b
              8.1.2. Physical examination relative to the cardiopulmonary system                                                                            b    2b
              8.1.3. Laboratory data                                                                                                                        b    2b
              8.1.4. Pulmonary function results                                                                                                             b    2b
              8.1.5. Blood gas results                                                                                                                      b    2b
              8.1.6. Imaging studies                                                                                                                        b    2b
              8.1.7. Monitoring data                                                                                                                        b    2b
              8.1.8. Cardiac monitoring                                                                                                                     b    2b
              8.1.9. Maternal and perinatal / neonatal history and data, APGAR scores,                                                                      b    2b
                      gestational age, L / S ratio
              8.1.10. Sleep study results                                                                                                                   b    2b
              8.1.11. Pulse oximetry results                                                                                                                b    3c
              8.2. Collect and Evaluate Additional Pertinent Clinical Information
              TR: Clinical Assessment in Respiratory Care, Chap 1, 3; Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 24
              8.2.1. Assess a patient's overall cardiopulmonary status by inspection to determine
              8.2.1.1. General appearance                                                                                                                   b    3c
              8.2.1.2. Airway assessment                                                                                                                    b    3c
              8.2.1.3. Cough, sputum amount and character                                                                                                   b    3c
              8.2.1.4. Apgar score, gestational age, transillumination of chest                                                                             b    3c
              8.2.2. Assess a patient’s overall Cardiopulmonary status by palpation to determine
              TR: Clinical Assessment in Respiratory Care, Chap 4
              8.2.2.1. Pulse, rhythm, force                                                                                                                 b    3c
              8.2.2.2. Asymmetrical chest movements, tactile fremitus, crepitus, tenderness,                                                                b    3c
                        secretions in the airway, and tracheal deviation
              8.2.3. Assess a patient's overall cardiopulmonary status by percussion                                                                        b    3c
              8.2.4. Assess a patient's overall cardiopulmonary status by auscultation to determine presence of
              TR: Clinical Assessment in Respiratory Care, Chap 4, 5, 18
              8.2.4.1. Breath sounds                                                                                                                        2b   3c
              8.2.4.2. Heart sounds and rhythm                                                                                                              b    2b
              8.2.4.3. Blood pressure                                                                                                                       2b   3c
                                                                                 25
                                                       1.                                     2.                           3.                             4.
Note 1

                                    Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References               Core                Certification For OJT             Proficiency Codes
                                                    (Note 2)                                Tasks                      (Note 4)                      (See Note 5)
                                                                                           (Note 3)      A        B       C       D        E        (A1)      (A2)
                                                                                                      Training Training Trainee Trainer Certifier Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                       Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials



             8.2.5. Interview a patient to determine
             TR: Clinical Assessment in Respiratory Care, Chap 1, 2, 9, 19
             8.2.5.1. Level of consciousness and orientation, emotional state, and ability to                                      b                          3c
                      cooperate
             8.2.5.2. Level of pain                                                                                                b                          3c
             8.2.5.3. Presence of dyspnea, sputum production, and exercise tolerance                                               b                          3c
             8.2.5.4. Social history e.g., smoking, substance abuse                                                                b                          3c
             8.2.5.5. Advance directives e.g., DNR status                                                                          b                          3c
             8.2.6. Assess a patient’s learning needs                                                                              b                          3c
             8.2.7. Review a chest radiograph to determine
             TR: Clinical Assessment in Respiratory Care, Chap 10; Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 9
             8.2.7.1. Quality of imaging e.g., patient positioning, exposure                                                       b                          2b
             8.2.7.2. Position of endotracheal or tracheotomy tube                                                                 b                          2b
             8.2.7.3. Position of indwelling tubes and catheters                                                                   b                          2b
             8.2.7.4. Presence of foreign bodies                                                                                   b                          2b
             8.2.7.5. Position of or change in hemidiaphragms or mediastinum                                                       b                          2b
             8.2.7.6. Presence of, or change in, CP abnormalities, e.g., pneumothorax,                                             b                          2b
                      consolidation, pleural fluid, etc.
             8.2.8. Review lateral neck radiographs e.g., epiglottitis, foreign body                                               b                          2b
             8.3. Interpret procedure results including
             TR: Clinical Assessment in Respiratory Care, Chap 4; ECG’s Made Easy, Chap 8, 9; Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice,
                 Chap 5
             8.3.1. 12-lead ECG (e.g., • rate • irregular rhythm • artifacts)                                                       -                          -
             8.3.2. Transcutaneous monitoring                                                                                       -                          -
             8.3.3. Pulse oximetry and capnography                                                                                  -                          -
             8.3.4. Tidal volume, minute volume, vital capacity, and peak flow measurements                                         -                          -
             8.3.5. Bedside spirometry e.g., FVC, FEV1                                                                              -                          -
             8.3.6. Arterial sampling - percutaneous or line                                                                        -                          -
             8.3.7. Arterialized capillary blood sampling                                                                           -                          -
             8.3.8. Timed walk test e.g., 6-minute                                                                                  -                          -
             8.3.9. Oxygen titration with exercise                                                                                  -                          -
             8.3.10. Blood gas / hemoximetry analysis                                                                               -                          -
             8.3.11. Exhaled nitric oxide                                                                                           -                          -
             8.3.12. Cardiopulmonary calculations e.g., P (A-a) O2, VD / VT                                                         -                          -
             8.3.13. Hemodynamic monitoring e.g., blood pressure, CVP                                                               -                          -
             8.3.14. Lung mechanics e.g., • plateau pressure • MIP • MEP                                                            -                          -
             8.3.15. Ventilator graphics e.g., pressure/volume loop                                                                 -                          -
             8.3.16. Apnea monitoring                                                                                               -                          -
             8.3.17. Overnight pulse oximetry                                                                                       -                          -
             8.3.18. Tracheal tube cuff pressure and/or volume                                                                      -                          -
             8.3.19. Arterial line insertion                                                                                        -                          -
             8.3.20. Stress testing e.g., ECG, pulse oximetry                                                                       -                          -
             8.3.21. Pulmonary function laboratory studies                                                                          -                          -
             8.3.22. CPAP / BIPAP titration during sleep                                                                            -                          -
             8.3.23. Auto-PEEP detection                                                                                            -                          -
         *   8.4. Medical terminology                                                          5                                   B                           -
             9. BLOOD GASES
             TR: Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 4; Basic Clinical Lab Competencies for Resp Care, Chap 8; Manual of
              Pulmonary Function Testing, Chap 6, 10; Principles of Anatomy and Physiology, Chap 5, 19, 23, 25; All You Really Need to
              Know to Interpret Arterial Blood Gases, Chap 1
             9.1. Perform arterial puncture
         *   9.1.1. Arterial line insertion                                                    5                                   b                          c
         *   9.1.2. Arterial sampling - percutaneous or line A-Line sampling                   5                                  2b                         3c
         *   9.2. Perform blood gas analysis                                                   5                                   b                         3c
         *   9.3. Operate arterial blood gas machines/co-oximeter                              5                                   b                         3c
         *   9.4. Interpret arterial blood gases                                               5                                  2b                        3c/x
         *   9.5. Perform user maintenance on blood gas machine/Co-oximeter                    5                                   b                        3c/x
                                                                                26
                                                     1.                                    2.                           3.                             4.
Note 1

                                  Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              Core                Certification For OJT             Proficiency Codes
                                                  (Note 2)                               Tasks                      (Note 4)                      (See Note 5)
                                                                                        (Note 3)      A        B       C       D        E        (A1)      (A2)
                                                                                                   Training Training Trainee Trainer Certifier Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                    Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials



           9.6. Blood Gas Quality Management (QM) programs
         * 9.6.1. College of American Pathologists (CAP) / The Joint Commission (TJC)     5/7                                   a                          B
           9.6.2. Perform blood gas QM procedures                                                                               -                          B
         * 9.6.2.1. Blood gas analyzers, co-oximeters                                      5                                    a                          3c
         * 9.6.2.2. Point-of-care analyzers                                                5                                    a                          3c
         * 9.6.2.3. Record and monitor QM data using accepted statistical methods         5*                                    a                          3c
           10. EMERGENCY CARE PROCEDURES
           TR: ECG’s Made Easy, Chap 6; Basic Clinical Lab Competencies for Resp Care, Chap 23; BLS Manual; ACLS Manual
         * 10.1. Perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)                               5                                   3c                           -
           10.2. Complete ACLS                                                                                                  -                           -
         * 10.3. Interpret warning/lethal arrhythmias                                      5                                   2b                          3c
         * 10.4. Operate defibrillators                                                    5                                   2b                          3c
         * 10.5. Operate physiologic monitoring units                                      5                                   2b                          3c
         * 10.6. Establish peripheral IV                                                   5                                    a                          3c
         * 10.7. Assist physician in administration of emergency medication                5                                   b                           3c
         * 10.8. Perform code cart checks                                                  5                                    -                          3c
           11. CARDIOVASCULAR
           TR: ECG’s Made Easy, Chap 1, 2; Braunwald’s Heart Disease, Chap 8, 15, 27, 65, 68, 75
           11.1. Cardiovascular Anatomy and Physiology
           11.1.1. Cardiovascular terminology                                                                                  B                           -
           11.1.2. Structure and function of the heart                                                                         B                           -
           11.1.3. Structure and function of the vascular system                                                               B                           -
           11.1.4. Hemodynamics                                                                                                A                           B
           11.1.5. Regulation of heart and circulation                                                                         B                           -
           11.1.6. Electrophysiology of cardiac muscle                                                                         B                           -
           11.1.7. Cardiac cycle                                                                                               B                           -
           11.1.8. Acquired cardiovascular disease                                                                             B                           -
           11.1.9. Congenital cardiovascular disease                                                                           B                           -
           11.1.10. Dynamics of cardiovascular dysfunction                                                                     B                           -
           11.2. Cardiology Procedures
           TR: ECG’s Made Easy, Chap 9; Braunwald’s Heart Disease, Chap 13, 14
         * 11.2.1. Perform electrocardiograph tests                                        5                                   2b                          3c
           11.2.2. Interpret EKGs                                                                                               -                           -
         * 11.2.2.1. 12-Lead EKGs                                                          5                                   2b                          3c
         * 11.2.2.2. Rhythm Strip                                                          5                                   2b                          3c
         * 11.2.3. Perform Exercise (stress) testing                                       5                                   b                           3c
         * 11.2.4. Perform Holter/Event monitoring tests                                   5                                   b                           3c
           11.2.5. Perform echocardiograph tests
           TR: Braunwald’s Heart Disease, Chap 15
         * 11.2.5.1. 2-D and M-mode                                                                                             -                          1b
         * 11.2.5.2. Doppler/color flow                                                                                         -                          1b
           11.2.5.3. Contrast studies                                                                                           -                           -
           11.2.5.4. Stress echo                                                                                                -                           -
           11.2.5.5. Act as an Assistant to the Physician Performing Special Procedures
           TR: ECG’s Made Easy, Chap 4, 8; Braunwald’s Heart Disease, Chap 15, 36, 38, 50; Basic Clinical Lab Competencies for Resp
                Care, Chap 8
           11.2.5.5.1. Insertion of arterial catheters                                                                          a                          2b
           11.2.5.5.2. Cardioversion                                                                                            a                          2b
           11.2.5.6. Transesophageal echo                                                                                       a                           -
         * 11.2.6. Identify structures and functions from echocardiograph studies                                              A                            -
         * 11.2.7. Perform radionuclide studies                                                                                 a                           a
           11.2.8. Perform pacemaker interrogation                                                                              a                           -
           11.2.9. Perform cardiopulmonary rehabilitation                                                                       a                           -
           11.2.10. Perform tilt-table testing                                                                                  a                           -
           11.3. Cardiac Catheterization Procedures
           TR: Braunwald’s Heart Disease, Chap 20
           11.3.1. Assist with diagnostic studies                                                                               a                           -
                                                                              27
                                                         1.                                          2.                           3.                             4.
Note 1

                                      Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                    Core                Certification For OJT             Proficiency Codes
                                                      (Note 2)                                     Tasks                      (Note 4)                      (See Note 5)
                                                                                                  (Note 3)      A        B       C       D        E        (A1)      (A2)
                                                                                                             Training Training Trainee Trainer Certifier Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                              Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials



             11.3.2. Assist with therapeutic intervention                                                                                    a       -
             12. PULMONARY
             TR: Principles of Anatomy and Physiology, Chap 23; Fundamentals of Respiratory Care, Chap 8; Manual of Pulmonary Function
                  Testing, Chap 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10; Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 1, 10, 11, 15, 22, 28, 30, 38, 35, 43, 45, 50,
                  52, 53, 57; Basic Clinical Lab Competencies for Respiratory Care, Chap 5
             12.1. Pulmonary Anatomy and Physiology
         *   12.1.1. Pulmonary terminology                                                           5                                       B       -
         *   12.1.2. Structure and functional dynamics                                               5                                       B       -
         *   12.1.3. Dynamics of gas exchange                                                        5                                       B       -
         *   12.1.4. Regulation of respiration                                                       5                                       B       -
         *   12.1.5. Apply math concepts                                                             5                                      2b       -
         *   12.1.6. Apply gas physics                                                               5                                      2b       -
         *   12.1.7. Chemistry of acid-base physiology                                               5                                       B       -
         *   12.1.8. Restrictive lung processes                                                      5                                       B       -
         *   12.1.9. Obstructive lung processes                                                      5                                       B       -
             12.2. Pulmonary Diagnostic Procedures
         *   12.2.1. Perform routine spirometry/flow volume loops                                    5                                      2b      3c
         *   12.2.2. Perform lung volume tests                                                       5                                       a      3c
         *   12.2.3. Perform lung diffusing capacity tests                                           5                                       a      3c
         *   12.2.4. Perform Raw/Gaw by body plethysmograph Body Box                                                                         a      3c
         *   12.2.5. Perform post-bronchodilator studies                                             5                                       b      3c
         *   12.2.6. Perform maximum voluntary ventilation                                                                                  2b      3c
         *   12.2.7. Perform Max O2 study                                                                                                    a       -
         *   12.2.8. Perform drug or physiologically-induced asthma study                                                                    a      2b
         *   12.2.9. Bedside spirometry e.g., FVC, FEV1                                                                                     2b      3c
         *   12.2.10. Timed walk test (e.g., 6-minute)                                                                                       b      b
         *   12.2.11. Oxygen titration with exercise                                                                                         b      b
         *   12.2.12. Exhaled nitric oxide                                                                                                   b     2b/x
         *   12.2.13. Lung mechanics (e.g., • MIP • MEP • compliance)                                                                       2b      3c
         *   12.2.14. Pulmonary stress testing (e.g., ECG, pulse oximetry)                                                                   b      b
             12.2.15. Act as an Assistant to the Physician Performing Special Procedures
         *   12.2.15.1. Bronchoscopic examination                                                    5                                       a      3c
         *   12.2.15.2. Thoracentesis                                                                5                                       a      3c
             12.2.16. Perform user maintenance
         *   12.2.16.1. Pulmonary function system                                                    5                                       b      3c
         *   12.2.16.2. Body plethysmography                                                                                                 b      3c
         *   12.2.16.3. Fiberoptic/video bronchoscope                                                5                                       b      3c
             12.2.17. Perform Quality Control Procedures For
         *   12.2.17.1. Gas analyzers                                                                                                        b      3c
         *   12.2.17.2. Pulmonary function equipment                                                                                         b      3c
             12.3. Sleep Disorders
             12.3.1. Perform polysomnography                                                                                                 -       -
             12.3.2. Perform multiple sleep latency test (MSLT)                                                                              -       -
             12.3.3. Titrate BiPAP/CPAP                                                                                                      -       -
             12.3.4. Perform ambulatory sleep diagnostic tests                                                                               -       -
             12.3.5. Perform actiography                                                                                                     -       -
             12.3.6. Perform Multiple Wakefulness Tests                                                                                      -       -
             12.3.6.1. Apnea monitoring                                                                                                      -       -
             12.3.6.2. Overnight pulse oximetry                                                                                              -       -
             12.3.7. Perform user maintenance on sleep lab equipment                                                                         -       -
             13. RESPIRATORY CARE
             TR: Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 15, 16
         *   13.1. Respiratory therapy terminology                                                   5                                       B       -
         *   13.2. Mathematics and Physics of gases in respiratory therapy                           5                                       B      2b
             13.3. Administration of oxygen and mixed gas therapy
             TR: Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 15, 16, 24; Fundamentals of Respiratory Care, Chap 48
         *   13.3.1. Operate pressure regulator                                                      5                                       b      3c
                                                                                     28
                                                      1.                                      2.                           3.                             4.
Note 1

                                   Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                Core                Certification For OJT             Proficiency Codes
                                                   (Note 2)                                 Tasks                      (Note 4)                      (See Note 5)
                                                                                           (Note 3)      A        B       C       D        E        (A1)      (A2)
                                                                                                      Training Training Trainee Trainer Certifier Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                       Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials



         * 13.3.2. Operate flow meters                                                         5                                   b     3c
         * 13.3.3. Operate oxygen blenders                                                     5                                   b     3c
         * 13.3.4. Operate oxygen analyzers                                                    5                                   b     3c
           13.4. Neonatal/Pediatric respiratory management
           TR: Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 15, 24; Fundamentals of Respiratory Care, Chap 38, 48
         * 13.4.1. Care of the neonatal patient                                                                                    A      C
         * 13.4.2. Care of the pediatric patient                                                                                   A      C
         * 13.4.3. Set-up and operate high frequency ventilators                                                                    a     b
         * 13.4.4. Operate neonatal/pediatric ventilators                                                                          1b    2b
         * 13.4.5. Nitric Oxide delivery system                                                                                    A      -
           13.4.6. Incubators                                                                                                       -     -
           13.4.7. Arterialized capillary blood sampling                                                                            -     -
           13.4.8. Aerosol (mist) tent                                                                                              -     -
           13.4.9. Oxygen hoods                                                                                                     -     -
           13.5. Mechanical Ventilation
           TR: Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 20, 21, 22, 23, 24; Basic Clinical Lab Competencies for Resp Care, Chap 25;
                Mechanical Ventilation, Chap 6, 20
           13.5.1. Operate Mechanical Ventilators
         * 13.5.1.1. e.g., pneumatic, electric, fluidic, and microprocessor                    5                                   2b    3c
         * 13.5.1.2. Noninvasive positive pressure                                             5                                   2b    3c
         * 13.5.1.3. High frequency                                                            5                                   2b    3c
           13.5.2. Measure lung mechanics e.g., plateau pressure, MIP, MEP, compliance                                             2b    3c
           13.5.3. Measure auto-PEEP                                                                                               2b    3c
         * 13.5.4. Select ventilator graphics e.g., waveforms, scales                                                              2b    3c
         * 13.5.5. Initiate and select appropriate settings for high frequency ventilation                                         2b    3c
         * 13.5.6. Initiate and modify weaning procedures                                                                          b     3c
         * 13.5.7. Transport mechanically ventilated patients (internal or external)           5                                   b     3c
         * 13.5.8. Mechanical ventilation at altitude                                                                              b      -
         * 13.5.9. Position patient to minimize hypoxemia                                      5                                   2b    2b
         * 13.5.10. Operate manual breathing devices                                           5                                   2b    3c
           13.5.11. Monitor and adjust alarm settings                                                                               -     -
           13.5.12. Change patient breathing circuitry                                                                              -     -
           13.5.13. Apply disease-specific ventilator protocols (e.g. ARDS-Net protocol                                             -     -
         * 13.5.14. Operate BiPAP/CPAP                                                         5                                    a    3c
           13.6. Perform user maintenance on
           TR: Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 22, 23
         * 13.6.1. Mechanical ventilators                                                      5                                   2b    3c
         * 13.6.2. Oxygen analyzers                                                            5                                   2b    3c
         * 13.6.3. BiPAP/CPAP equipment                                                        5                                   2b    3c
         * 13.6.4. Pulse oximeters                                                             5                                   b     3c
           13.7. Operate
           TR: Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 15, 16, 21, 22, 26, 34; Basic Clinical Lab Competencies for Resp Care, Chap 10
           13.7.1. Wright respirometer                                                         5                                   2b    3c
           13.7.2. Peak flow meter                                                             5                                   2b    3c
           13.7.3. Inspiratory force meter                                                     5                                   2b    3c
           13.7.4. Transcutaneous monitor                                                                                          b    3c/x
         * 13.7.5. Pulse oximeter                                                                                                  2b 3c/x
           13.7.6. Capnography                                                                                                     2b 3c/x
         * 13.7.7. Humidification devices                                                      5                                   b     3c
           13.7.8. Vacuum systems                                                                                                  2b    3c
         * 13.7.9. He / O2 delivery systems                                                    5                                   1b    3c
         * 13.7.10. Oxygen concentrators                                                       5                                   1b    3c
         * 13.7.11. Portable liquid oxygen systems                                             5                                   1b    3c
         * 13.7.12. Portable oxygen concentrators                                              5                                   1b    3c
         * 13.7.13. Air compressors                                                            5                                   1b    3c
         * 13.7.14. Gas delivery devices                                                       5                                   b     3c
         * 13.7.15. Nebulization devices                                                       5                                   b     3c
                                                                               29
                                                       1.                                      2.                           3.                             4.
Note 1

                                    Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                Core                Certification For OJT             Proficiency Codes
                                                    (Note 2)                                 Tasks                      (Note 4)                      (See Note 5)
                                                                                            (Note 3)      A        B       C       D        E        (A1)      (A2)
                                                                                                       Training Training Trainee Trainer Certifier Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                        Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials



             13.8. Initiate, Conduct, or Modify Respiratory Care Techniques in an Emergency Setting
             TR: Fundamentals of Respiratory Care, Chap 34
         *   13.8.1. Initiate emergency treatment for adverse reactions to respiratory         5                                                          b    3c
                     medication
             13.8.2. Treat cardiopulmonary emergencies according to
             13.8.2.1. ACLS                                                                                                                               -     -
             13.8.2.2. Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS)                                                                                             -     -
             13.8.2.3. Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP)                                                                                               -     -
             13.8.3. Treat a tension pneumothorax                                                                                                         -     -
             13.8.4. Participate in
             13.8.4.1. Disaster management                                                                                                                -     -
             13.8.4.2. Medical emergency team (MET) e.g., rapid response team                                                                             -     -
             13.9. Airway management
             TR: Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 19; Mechanical Ventilation, Chap 3
         *   13.9.1. Artificial Airway familiarization                                         5                                                          b    C
         *   13.9.2. Perform intubation procedures                                             5                                                          b    3c
         *   13.9.3. Perform extubation procedures                                             5                                                          b    3c
         *   13.9.4. Properly position a patient                                               5                                                          b    3c
         *   13.9.5. Maintain position of / secure artificial airway                           5                                                          b    3c
         *   13.9.6. Maintain appropriate cuff inflation                                       5                                                          b    3c
         *   13.9.7. Reposition or change endotracheal or tracheotomy tube                     5                                                          b    3c
         *   13.9.8. Perform tracheotomy care                                                  5                                                          b    3c
         *   13.9.9. Insert and/or remove oropharyngeal /nasopharyngeal airways                5                                                          b    3c
         *   13.9.10. Apply suctioning techniques                                              5                                                          b    3c
         *   13.9.11. Ensure airway patency                                                    5                                                          b    3c
             13.10. A/W clearance and hyperinflation techniques
             TR: Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 18, 19
         *   13.10.1. Nasopharyngeal suctioning                                                5                                                          b    3c
         *   13.10.2. Oropharyneal suctioning                                                  5                                                          b    3c
         *   13.10.3. Give specialized breathing instructions                                  5                                                          1b   3c
         *   13.10.4. Instruct use of incentive spirometry                                     5                                                          2b   3c
             13.10.5. Perform chest physiotherapy                                              5                                                           -    -
         *   13.10.6. Chest percussion                                                         5                                                          b    3c
         *   13.10.7. Postural drainage                                                        5                                                          b    3c
         *   13.10.8. Positive Expiratory Pressure therapy                                     5                                                          b    3c
             13.10.9. Percussion vest                                                          5                                                          b     -
         *   13.10.10. Vibration                                                               5                                                          b    3c
         *   13.10.11. Perform intermittent positive pressure breathing treatments                                                                         a    -
             13.11. Hemodynamic monitoring
             TR: Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 6
             13.11.1. Operate / manipulate
             13.11.1.1. Monitoring devices                                                                                                                b    3c
             13.11.1.2. Pressure transducers                                                                                                              b    3c
             13.11.1.3. Catheters e.g., arterial, pulmonary artery, CVP                                                                                   b    3c
             13.11.2. Interpret results                                                                                                                   b    2b
             13.12. Independently Modify Therapeutic Procedures Based on the Patient’s Response
             13.12.1. Terminate treatment based on patient's response to therapy                                                                          -     -
             13.12.2. Modify treatment techniques
             13.12.2.1. IPPB                                                                                                                              -     -
             13.12.2.2. Incentive breathing devices                                                                                                       -     -
             13.12.3. Specialty gas therapy e.g., He / O2, NO
             13.12.3.1. Change mode of administration                                                                                                     -     -
             13.12.3.2. Adjust flow or gas concentration                                                                                                  -     -
             13.12.4. Mechanical ventilation
             13.12.4.1. Improve patient synchrony                                                                                                         -     -
             13.12.4.2. Enhance oxygenation                                                                                                               -     -
             13.12.4.3. Improve alveolar ventilation                                                                                                      -     -
                                                                                30
                                                      1.                                    2.                           3.                             4.
Note 1

                                   Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              Core                Certification For OJT             Proficiency Codes
                                                   (Note 2)                               Tasks                      (Note 4)                      (See Note 5)
                                                                                         (Note 3)      A        B       C       D        E        (A1)      (A2)
                                                                                                    Training Training Trainee Trainer Certifier Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                     Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials



             13.12.4.4. Adjust I:E settings                                                                                      -     -
             13.12.4.5. Modify ventilator techniques                                                                             -     -
             13.12.4.6. Adjust noninvasive positive pressure ventilation                                                         -     -
             13.12.4.7. Adjust ventilator settings based on ventilator graphics                                                  -     -
             13.12.4.8. Change type of ventilator                                                                                -     -
             13.12.4.9. Alter mechanical dead space                                                                              -     -
             13.12.4.10. Initiates procedures for weaning                                                                        -     -
             13.13 Act as an Assistant to the Physician Performing Special Procedures
             TR: Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 19; Basic Clinical Lab Competencies for Resp Care, Chap 21, 22;
                  Fundamentals of Respiratory Care, Chap 51
         *   13.13.1. Intubation                                                               5                                b     3c
         *   13.13.2. Tracheostomy                                                             5                                b     3c
         *   13.13.3. Chest tube insertion                                                     5                                b     3c
             13.13.3.1. Drainage devices                                                                                        b      -
             13.13.3.2. Heimlich valve                                                                                          b      -
             13.14. Initiate and Conduct Pulmonary Rehabilitation and Home Care
             TR: Fundamentals of Respiratory Care, Chap 51
         *   13.14.1. General principles of home healthcare                                                                     B      B
         *   13.14.2. General principles and organization of skilled nursing facilities                                         B      B
                     (SNFs)/long term care/rehabilitation facility
         *   13.14.3. Operate home ventilators/Transport Ventilators                                                            b      b
             13.14.4. Initiate and adjust apnea monitors                                                                         -     b
             13.14.5. Explain planned therapy and goals to a patient in understandable terms                                     -     b
                     to achieve optimal therapeutic outcome
             13.14.6. Educate a patient and family in health management                                                          -     b
             13.14.7. Interact with a case manager                                                                               -     b
             13.14.8. Counsel a patient and family concerning smoking cessation                                                  -     b
             13.14.9. Instruct patient and family to assure safety and infection control                                         -     b
             13.14.10. Modify respiratory care procedures for use in home                                                        -     b
             13.14.11. Initiate treatment for sleep disorders e.g., CPAP                                                         -     b
             13.14.12. Perform Quality Control or user maintenance
             TR: Mosby’s Respiratory Care Equipment, Chap 8; Basic Clinical Lab Competencies for Resp Care, Chap 1; Respiratory Care-
                 Principles and Practice, Chap 17
         *   13.14.12.1. Gas metering devices e.g., flowmeter                                  5                                b      b
         *   13.14.12.2. Noninvasive monitors e.g., transcutaneous                             5                                b      b
             13.15. Recommend Procedures to Obtain Additional Data
             13.15.1. Blood tests e.g., hemoglobin, potassium                                                                    -     -
             13.15.2. Radiographic and other imaging studies                                                                     -     -
             13.15.3. Diagnostic bronchoscopy e.g., evaluate hemoptysis, atelectasis                                             -     -
             13.15.4. Sputum Gram stain, culture and sensitivities e.g., pneumonia                                               -     -
             13.15.5. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL)                                                                               -     -
             13.15.6. Pulmonary function testing                                                                                 -     -
             13.15.7. Lung mechanics e.g., compliance, airways resistance                                                        -     -
             13.15.8. Blood gas analysis, pulse oximetry, and transcutaneous monitoring                                          -     -
             13.15.9. ECG                                                                                                        -     -
             13.15.10. Capnography                                                                                               -     -
             13.15.11. Hemodynamic monitoring e.g., blood pressure, CVP                                                          -     -
             13.15.12. Insertion of monitoring catheters e.g., arterial                                                          -     -
             13.15.13. Sleep studies                                                                                             -     -
             13.15.14. Thoracentesis e.g., pleural effusion                                                                      -     -
             13.16. Determine the Appropriateness of the Prescribed Respiratory Care Plan and Recommend Modifications When Indicated by
                    Data
             13.16.1. Analyze available information to determine the pathophysiological state                                    -     -
             13.16.2. Review
             13.16.2.1. Planned therapy to establish therapeutic plan                                                            -     -
             13.16.2.2. Interdisciplinary patient and family plan                                                                -     -


                                                                               31
                                                   1.                                      2.                           3.                             4.
Note 1

                                Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                Core                Certification For OJT             Proficiency Codes
                                                (Note 2)                                 Tasks                      (Note 4)                      (See Note 5)
                                                                                        (Note 3)      A        B       C       D        E        (A1)      (A2)
                                                                                                   Training Training Trainee Trainer Certifier Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                    Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials



         13.16.3. Determine appropriateness of prescribed therapy & goals for identified                                        -       -
                  pathophysiological state
         13.16.4. Recommend changes in therapeutic plan when indicated                                                          -       -
         13.16.5. Perform respiratory care quality assurance                                                                    -       -
         13.16.6. Develop
         13.16.6.1. Quality improvement program                                                                                 -       -
         13.16.6.2. Respiratory care protocols                                                                                  -       -
         13.16.7. Monitor outcomes of
         TR: Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 32
         13.16.7.1. Quality improvement programs                                                                                -       -
         13.16.7.2. Respiratory care protocols                                                                                  -       -
         13.16.8. Apply respiratory care protocols                                                                              B       B
         13.16.9. Conduct health management education                                                                           -       -
         13.17. Recommend Modifications in The Respiratory Care Plan Based on the Patient’s Response
         TR: Basic Clinical Lab Competencies for Resp Care, Chap 14, 18, 20; Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 19, 51, 59;
              Mechanical Ventilation, Chap 3
         13.17.1. Recommend
         13.17.1.1. Institution of bronchopulmonary hygiene procedures                                                          b      2b
         13.17.1.2. Treatment of pneumothorax                                                                                   b      2b
         13.17.1.3. Sedation and/or use of muscle relaxant(s)                                                                   b      2b
         13.17.1.4. Adjustment of fluid balance                                                                                 b      2b
         13.17.1.5. Adjustment of electrolyte therapy                                                                           b      2b
         13.17.1.6. Insertion or change of artificial airway                                                                    b      2b
         13.17.1.7. Weaning from mechanical ventilation                                                                         b      2b
         13.17.1.8. Extubation                                                                                                  b      2b
         13.17.1.9. Discontinuing treatment based on patient response                                                           b      2b
         13.17.2. Recommend changes in
         TR: Mechanical Ventilation, Chap 13; Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 16, 17
         13.17.2.1. Patient position                                                                                            b      2b
         13.17.2.2. Inhaled drug dosage or concentration                                                                        b      2b
         13.17.2.3. FiO2 and oxygen flow                                                                                        b      2b
         13.17.3. Recommend changes in mechanical ventilation to
         TR: Manual of Pulmonary Function Testing, Chap 4; Clinical assessment in Respiratory Care, Chap 25, 26; Respiratory Care-
             Principles and Practice, Chap 21, 22, 23, 24; Mechanical Ventilation, Chap 6
         13.17.3.1. Improve patient synchrony                                                                                   b      2b
         13.17.3.2. Enhance oxygenation                                                                                         b      2b
         13.17.3.3. Improve alveolar ventilation                                                                                b      2b
         13.17.3.4. Adjust I:E settings                                                                                         b      2b
         13.17.3.5. Modify ventilator techniques                                                                                b      2b
         13.17.3.6. Adjust noninvasive positive pressure ventilation                                                            b      2b
         13.17.3.7. Adjust ventilator settings based on ventilator graphics                                                     b      2b
         13.17.3.8. Change type of ventilator                                                                                   b      2b
         13.17.3.9. Alter mechanical dead space                                                                                 b      2b
         13.17.3.10. Reduce auto-PEEP                                                                                           b      2b
         13.17.3.11. Reduce plateau pressure                                                                                    b      2b
         13.17.4. Recommend pharmacologic interventions including use of
         TR: Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 54; ACLS Manual
         13.17.4.1. Bronchodilators                                                                                             b      3c
         13.17.4.2. Anti-inflammatory drugs (cromolyn sodium, corticosteroids, and                                              b      3c
                  leukotrienes)
         13.17.4.3. Mucolytics and proteolytics (Pulmozyme, Mucomyst, hypertonic                                                b      3c
                  saline)
         13.17.4.4. Cardiovascular drugs e.g., ACLS protocol agents                                                             b      2b
         13.17.4.5. Antimicrobials e.g., antibiotics                                                                            b      2b
         13.17.4.6. Sedatives                                                                                                   b       b
         13.17.4.7. Analgesics                                                                                                  b       b
         13.17.4.8. Paralytic agents                                                                                            b       b
                                                                            32
                                                       1.                                      2.                           3.                             4.
Note 1

                                    Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                Core                Certification For OJT             Proficiency Codes
                                                    (Note 2)                                 Tasks                      (Note 4)                      (See Note 5)
                                                                                            (Note 3)      A        B       C       D        E        (A1)      (A2)
                                                                                                       Training Training Trainee Trainer Certifier Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                        Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials



             13.17.4.9. Diuretics                                                                                                                         b    b
             13.17.4.10. Surfactants                                                                                                                      b    3c
             13.17.4.11. Vaccines e.g., pneumovax, influenza                                                                                              b    b
             13.18. Maintain Records and Communicate Information
             TR: Clinical Assessment in Respiratory Care, Chap 21
             13.18.1. Record therapy and results using conventional terminology
             13.18.1.1. Specify therapy administered, date, time, frequency of therapy,                                                                   b    3c
                       medication, & ventilatory data
             13.18.1.2. Note and interpret patient's response to therapy                                                                                  b    3c
             13.18.2. Communicate information
             TR: Basic Clinical Lab Competencies for Resp Care, Chap 11; Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 17, 31;
                  Clinical Assessment in Respiratory Care, Chap 21
             13.18.2.1. Regarding patient's clinical status to appropriate members of the                                                                 b    3c
                       health care team
             13.18.2.2. Relevant to coordinating patient care and discharge planning                                                                      b    3c
             13.18.3. Accept and verify patient care orders                                                                                               -     -
             13.18.4. Apply computer technology to patient safety initiatives e.g., drug                                                                  b    3c
                     dispensing, order entry
             13.18.5. Communicate results of therapy and alter therapy by protocol(s)                                                                     b    3c
             13.18.6. Explain planned therapy and goals to a patient in understandable terms                                                              b    3c
                     to achieve optimal therapeutic outcome
             13.18.7. Educate a patient and family concerning smoking cessation and health                                                                b    3c
                     management
             14. SUPERVISION
             14.1. Orient new personnel                                                       7                                                           -     -
             14.2. Assign personnel to work areas                                             7                                                           -     -
             14.3. Plan work assignments and priorities                                       7                                                           -     -
             14.4. Schedule work assignments                                                  7                                                           -     -
             14.5. Establish work methods                                                     7                                                           -     -
             14.6. Establish performance standards                                            7                                                           -     -
             15. TRAINING
             15.1. Evaluate personnel to determine need for training                          7                                                           -     -
             15.2. Describe proficiency code key                                              7                                                           -     -
             15.3. Planning and supervising OJT
             15.3.1. Prepare job qualification standards                                      7                                                           -     -
             15.3.2. Conduct training                                                        5/7                                                          -     -
             15.3.3. Counsel trainees on their progress                                       7                                                           -     -
             15.3.4. Monitor effectiveness of
             15.3.4.1. Career knowledge upgrade training                                      7                                                           -     -
             15.3.4.2. Job proficiency upgrade training                                       7                                                           -     -
             15.3.4.3. Qualification training                                                 7                                                           -     -
             15.4. Maintain training records                                                  7                                                           -     -
             15.5. Evaluate effectiveness of training programs                                7                                                           -     -
             15.6. Recommend personnel for training                                           7                                                           -     -
             16. PHARMACOLOGY
             16.1. Medication actions, side effects, and Guidelines for administration
             TR: Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 54
         *   16.1.1. Respiratory medications                                                  5                                                           A    B
         *   16.1.2. Emergency medications                                                    5                                                           A    B
             16.2. Administer respiratory medication
             TR: Respiratory Care-Principles and Practice, Chap 16, 17, 54
         *   16.2.1. Metered dose inhalers                                                    5                                                           b    3c
         *   16.2.2. Hand held nebulizers                                                     5                                                           b    3c
         *   16.2.3. Dry powder inhaler                                                       5                                                           b    3c
         *   16.2.4. Endotracheal instillation                                                5                                                           b    3c
         *   16.3. Calculate Drug Dosage Strengths                                            5                                                           2b   3c
         *   16.4. Prepare respiratory medication                                             5                                                           b    3c
                                                                                33
                                                    1.                                        2.                           3.                             4.
Note 1

                                 Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  Core                Certification For OJT             Proficiency Codes
                                                 (Note 2)                                   Tasks                      (Note 4)                      (See Note 5)
                                                                                           (Note 3)      A        B       C       D        E        (A1)      (A2)
                                                                                                      Training Training Trainee Trainer Certifier Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                       Start   Complete Initials   Initials   Initials



         17. DEPLOYMENT SKILLS
            (The following skills and knowledge are for use in a deployed setting only and not for technicians to use in their normal scope of
             practice. These items are trained through CSTARs, EMT, EMT Refresher, or any other skills lab that can verify competency.)
         17.1. Perform pre-hospital/field triage                                                                                     -      -
         17.2. Trauma patient assessment                                                                                             -      -
         17.3. Shock and control of bleeding                                                                                         -      -
         17.4. Apply cervical collar                                                                                                 -      -
         17.5. Manage multi-system trauma                                                                                            -      -
         17.6. Manage burns                                                                                                          -      -
         17.7. Perform needle thoracostomy for tension pneumothorax                                                                  -      -
         17.8. Perform cricothyroidotomy                                                                                             -      -
         17.9. Establish intravenous drip rates                                                                                      -      -
         17.10. Monitor intravenous infusion/complications                                                                           -      -
         17.11. Control bleeding from shunt or invasive monitoring/therapy line                                                      -      -




                                                                               34
                                                    Attachment 3

                                         Training Reference Bibliography
                                   of Commercial and Other Service Publications


REQUIRED REFERENCES:

Gerard J. Tortora, (2011) Principles of Anatomy and Physiology, John Wiley & Sons Publisher, 13th edition or most
current

Eugene Braunwald, (2011) Braunwald’s Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine, Elsevier Saunders
Publishers, 9th edition or most current

Barbara, Aehlert, (2009) ECG’s Made Easy, Mosby Elsevier Publishers, 4th edition or most current

Jae K. Oh, MD, (2006) The Echo Manual, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins Publishers, 3rd edition or most current

Gregg L. Ruppel, (2008) Manual of Pulmonary Function Testing, Mosby Elsevier Publishers, 9th edition or most current

Lawrence, Martin, MD. (1999) All you really need to know to interpret Arterial Blood Gases Lippincott Williams &
Wilkins Publishers, 2nd edition or most current

Dean R. Hess, (2011) Respiratory Care: Principles and Practices Jones & Bartlett Learning Publishers, 2nd edition or
most current

Gary C. White, (2012) Basic Clinical Lab Competencies for Respiratory Care: An Integrated Approach, Delmar
Cengage Learning Publishers, 5th edition or most current

Robert L. Wilkins, (2009) Clinical Assessment in Respiratory Care, Mosby Elsevier Publishers, 6th edition or most
current

Neil R. MacIntyre, (2008) Richard D. Branson, Mechanical Ventilation, Saunders Elsevier Publishers, 2nd edition or most
current

Amy M. Karch, 2013 Lippincott’s Nursing Drug Guide, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins Publishers, 2013 or most current
edition


SUPPLEMENTAL REFERENCES:

William F. Armstrong, (2009) Feigenbaum’s Echocardiography, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins Publishers, 7th edition or
most current

Robert L. Wilkins, (2008) Egan’s Fundamentals of Respiratory Care, Mosby Elsevier Publishers, 9th edition or most
current




                                                           35
SUGGESTED WEB LINKS:

Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care: http://www.aaahc.org/

Accreditation for Cardiovascular Excellence: http://www.cvexcel.org/NewsDetail.aspx?cid=d81c64f2-f40a-40c6-
96d3-dffd8121b344

Advanced Cardiac Life Support: http://www.acls.org/

American Academy of Sleep Medicine: http://www.aasmnet.org/accreditation.aspx

American Association for Respiratory Care: http://connect.aarc.org/Home/

American Heart Association: http://www.heart.org/HEARTORG/

American Thoracic Society: http://www.thoracic.org/

American Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography: http://www.ardms.org

ARDS Network: http://www.ardsnet.org/

Basic Life Support: http://www.heart.org/HEARTORG/CPRAndECC/HealthcareTraining/BasicLifeSupportBLS/Basic-
Life-Support-BLS_UCM_001281_SubHomePage.jsp

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: http://www.cdc.gov/

College of American Pathology: http://www.cap.org/apps/cap.portal

Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care: http://www.coarc.com/

Community College of the Air Force: http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/transcripts.asp

Critical Care Air Transport: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=s6925EC13493A0FB5E044080020E329A9

Department of Transportation: http://www.dot.gov/

E-Publishing: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

The Joint Commission: http://www.jointcommission.org/

National Board for Respiratory Care: http://www.nbrc.org/Pages/default.aspx

Occupational Safety & Health Administration: http://www.osha.gov/

United States Environmental Protection Agency: http://www.epa.gov/

United States Food and Drug Administration: http://www.fda.gov/




                                                        36
                                                     Attachment 4

                                         Special Experience Identifiers (SEI)

A SEI is a unique code that recognizes personnel who have obtained special skills or abilities. Managers and leaders use
the SEI to match a skill-set to the unique requirements of an assignment. The following SEI is available for the 4H0X1
career field, used exclusively in the ANG:


Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team (WMD-CST) Member
SEI Code: 012

Explanation/Designation Criteria: Requires (1) assignment to a DoD certified Weapons of Mass Destruction—Civil
Support Service Team (WMD-CST); (2) completion of the 8-week Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear (CBRN)
Emergency Responder Training module of the Civil Support Skills Course (CSSC) conducted by U.S. Army Chemical
School, Fort Leonard Wood, MO (CSSC XXXX; first two digits represent the class year, the second two digits represent
the class number); and (3) certification by the unit commander via AF Form 2096, Classification/On-The-Job Training
Action, that the individual has completed CSSC XXXX and the WMD-CST has been certified by DoD. There is no
minimum grade or skill-level requirements to be awarded the SEI.

NOTE 1: Currently, only the National Guard has the WMD-CST mission requirement. No active duty or reserve
positions are impacted. If the mission expands to either the active duty or reserve components, the respective component
career field managers must be advised and coordinate where and what AFSCs and positions will be impacted.

NOTE 2: Guard personnel transferred to the active component will retain the SEI for possible future
contingency/deployment requirements.




                                                           37
SECTION B – COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST (COL)
1. Course Objectives for Initial Skills Course. To obtain a copy of a COL, contact:

Training Development Element
383 TRS/TRR
3480 Garden Avenue
Fort. Sam Houston, TX 78234
Phone: DSN 420-5157 or Commercial: (210) 808-5157

1.1. Each proficiency coded task or knowledge item taught at the technical school is measured using an objective. An
objective is a written instruction for the students, so they know what is expected of them to successfully complete training
on each task or knowledge item. Each objective is composed of a condition, behavior, and a standard. The condition is
the setting in which the training takes place (type of equipment or references when required). The behavior is the
observable portion of the objective (perform hand washing). The standard is the level of performance that is measured to
ensure the proficiency code level is maintained (e.g., to a 70% or with no instructor assists). All objectives use a progress
check (PC) or written test (W) or a combination of both to measure a student’s ability (skill) or knowledge.

1.2. The minimum standard for written examinations is 70% (waiverable). The standard for performance objectives
(skills) vary and are indicated in the objective and the performance checklist. The instructor documents each student’s
progress during skills evaluations with the use of a checklist. Students must satisfactorily complete all progress checks
prior to taking a written test.

2. Initial Medical Readiness Training. As directed by AFI 41-106, initial medical readiness training is provided within
the Expeditionary Medical Readiness Course (EMRC), which is conducted at 937th Training Group, Camp Bullis, TX.
The EMRC course occurs during the Cardiopulmonary Apprentice Phase I Course. Completed training is documented on
AETC Form 15, Student Training Report (or computer-generated student report) for each course graduate. Sustainment
Medical Readiness training for the individual is the responsibility of each medical facility.

3. Advanced Skills Course. There is currently no advanced course. This area is reserved.




                                                             38
SECTION C – SUPPORT MATERIALS: There are currently no support material requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                     39
SECTION D – TRAINING COURSE INDEX

1. Resident Courses.

1.1. Refer to the ETCA (https://etca.randolph.af.mil) for complete information on the courses listed in this section.

1.2. Resident courses applicable to AFSC 4H0X1.

Course Number                                   Course Title
L3ABJ4H031 XXXX                                 Cardiopulmonary Apprentice – Phase I
L5ABO4H031 XXXX                                 Cardiopulmonary Apprentice – Phase II
JCORP4XXX XXXX                                  Expeditionary Medical Support (EMEDS) Camp Bullis, TX
B3OZYCCATT XXX                                  Critical Care Air Transport Team Course
B4OZYSTARS XXX                                  Center for Sustainment of Trauma and Readiness Skills (C-STARS
                                                Cincinnati, Advanced CCATT)

NOTE: The last characters of a course number are “XXXX” because as a course is revised. These characters will
change. Refer to the ETCA for current course numbers.




                                                             40
SECTION E – MAJCOM UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS

1. Air Force Reserves (AFR).

1.1. Purpose. This section applies to all cardiopulmonary laboratory specialty personnel assigned to all AFR medical
units.

1.2. Seasoning Training Program (STP) requirements. Member and unit will follow guidance issued in the AFRC
STP guide published by HQ AFRC/A1T.

1.2.1. Upon completion of the Cardiopulmonary Apprentice courses (Phase I and Phase II), all cardiopulmonary
apprentices (non-prior service and cross-trainees) will be assigned to an approved MTF or an approved civilian facility for
180 days to acquire proficiency in performing 5-skill level core tasks. Waivers to shortened training time will be
coordinated through the AFRC MFM for approval.

1.2.2. To ensure continuity between resident and clinical training, the apprentices will forward a copy of his/her technical
school certificate (AETC Form 156, Student Training Report) to their respective Reserve unit of assignment. The
Reserve unit of assignment will then initiate upgrade action using AF Form 2096 to award the 3-skill level and enter the
apprentice in the appropriate training status code (TSC) “B” or “F.”

1.2.3. STP Process. The possibility for a member to receive training from another unit besides his/her unit of assignment
does exist. Therefore, units will be referred to as home station or TDY location.

1.2.3.1. Home Station:

1.2.3.1.1. A MTL must be available to a qualified trainer and certifier (if required) throughout the duration of the STP.

1.2.3.1.2. Will ensure that milestones have been established and followed. Upon entry to the program, supervisors will
brief the milestones and expectations to the trainee.

1.2.3.1.3. Validate applicant’s eligibility prior to submission for approval.

1.2.3.1.4. Establish training record for applicant.

1.2.3.1.5. Have member report to Base/Wing Training Office with signed STP statement of understanding. Statement
may be forwarded by unit.

1.2.3.1.6. Forward a copy of the member’s STP orders to the Base/Wing Training Office.

1.2.3.1.7. Contact TDY location and provide them with the member’s contact information and appropriate personnel
records

1.2.3.1.8. Monitor and document progress of member at least monthly.

1.2.3.1.9. Amend STP orders if member is not progressing satisfactorily.

1.2.3.1.10. Commander is the only person authorized to sign Conditional Release and Break-in-Training from the STP.

1.2.3.1.11. Frequent breaks in STP may result in the continuation of the program being unit funded.

1.2.3.1.12. Base /Wing Training Office will be immediately notified of each break in training. NOTE: This could result
in repayment by the member if not accomplished immediately.


                                                              41
1.2.3.1.13. UTM will show STP progress on the monthly status of training report to include number of those participating
and amount of days in program, percentage of tasks completed, and those who have incurred a break in training.

1.2.3.2. TDY Location: The MTP and MTL are available for a qualified trainer and certifier throughout the duration of
the STP.

1.2.3.2.2. Inprocess the member as an augmentee to the respective unit.

1.2.3.2.3. Verify member has STP statement of understanding and orders.

1.2.3.2.4. Develop a tracking system to monitor the member’s progress and report to home station.

1.2.3.2.5. Maintain up-to-date emergency contact information on the member.

1.3. CCATT Participation. To be a member assigned to a CCATT UTC, the 4H0X1 civilian job must be directly
related to the 4H0X1 career field (Respiratory Therapist) to meet requirements of AFTTP 3-42.51, Critical Care Air
Transport Team, and maintain required proficiency.

2. Air National Guard (ANG).

2.1. Purpose. This section applies to all cardiopulmonary personnel assigned to all ANG units.

2.2. Proficiency Training.

2.2.1. Upon completion of the Cardiopulmonary Apprentice Course (Phase I and Phase II), all cardiopulmonary
apprentices will be evaluated to determine the need for proficiency training requirements. ANG 4H031s are awarded 180
days to obtain proficiency training.

2.2.2. Proficiency Training (Phase III training):

2.2.1. Upon completion of Phase I and II, non-prior service and cross-trainee 4H031s assigned to a unit that does not have
the capability or accessibility to any facilities by which the 4H031s would acquire skill proficiency verification for 5 level
upgrade may utilize this training.

2.2.3. Proficiency training will be accomplished at an approved MTF. During Phase III, the member will be assigned to
an active duty/civilian supervisor who will ensure that the appropriate experiences and supervision is provided to assist
the member achieve the required proficiencies.

2.2.4. Proficiency training must be accomplished immediately following graduation from technical school (Phase I and
II) consecutively without interruption for weekends or holidays. Members are only approved to utilize a single type of
proficiency training after graduation from Phase I and II. The waiver authority for this timeline is the CFM.

2.2.5. The ANG FM may approve, on a case-by-case basis, 30 additional days for proficiency training.

2.2.6. To ensure between resident and clinical training, the apprentice will forward a copy of his/her technical school
certificate (AF Form 1256, Certificate of Training) to the unit of assignment. The ANG unit will then initiate upgrade
action using AF Form 2096 to award the 3-skill level and enter the apprentice in the appropriate training status code
(TSC) “B” or “F.”




                                                              42
SECTION F – Cardiopulmonary On-the-Job Training (OJT)

1. Work Center Training Plan. The purpose of this section is to provide guidelines and examples of proper
documentation for the many electronic forms used in training of all enlisted medical personnel. Training documentation
helps to assess readiness capability as well as individual strengths and weaknesses. It also aids compliance with all Joint
Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health
Care (AAAHC), and Health Services Inspections (HSI) regulatory requirements. The enlisted training documentation has
migrated from the hard copy to electronic AFTR. AFTR is accessible from the ADLS via the AF Portal. Refer to your
UTM for the most current policies and guidance on training documentation.

1.1 Master Training Plan (MTP).

1.1.1 A MTP is a reference guide developed for each section that includes all facets of training for individuals assigned.
It is used as a reference source for the type of training and training documentation that occurs with each assigned member.
The MTP is used to standardize training and to give trainers, trainees, supervisors, and noncommissioned officers in
charge an overview of the training process for the duty section. Training managers will incorporate into AFTR.

1.1.2. The MTP is an overview of training for the duty section, and should include all information involved in the training
process for the duty section. Training will vary from section to section and person to person; however, certain documents
will be a standard requirement for all MTPs. They are listed below:

1.1.2.1. Master Task List (MTL). The MTL identifies all day-to-day mission (duty position) requirements, core tasks,
local and contingency tasks, and additional duties performed by work center personnel.

1.1.2.2. Current CFETP or AFJQS (if available).

1.1.1.3 Locally-developed AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS (accessible in
AFTR).

1.1.1.4. Milestones for tasks and CDC completion (identify the projected time frame the trainee will complete core tasks
and each set of CDCs as required).

1.1.1.5. Unit-Specific Orientation Checklist

1.1.1.6. Job Descriptions/Performance Standards

1.1.1.7. QTPs required to perform peacetime/wartime duties. Recommendation: Each MTP should have an official
memorandum from the work center supervisor addressing key issues peculiar to the work center and implementation of
the MTP.

2. MTP development. Because every work center is unique, there is no “Gold Standard” template for the MTP— many
sections use binders with dividers while others use 6-part folders. How it looks is less important as to how it functions,
therefore, work closely with your UTM during MTP development and review. Additionally, ask around to other
departments for examples.




                                                            43
