DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                CFETP 2T2X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                    Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                   1 March 2012


                             AFSC 2T2X1
                   AIR TRANSPORTATION SPECIALTY




         CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

   ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

       RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                               CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                    AIR TRANSPORTATION SPECIALTY
                                              AFSC 2T2X1

                                                                Table of Contents

Part I

Preface..............................................................................................................................................    1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained ......................................................................................................                     2

Section A - General Information
Purpose ............................................................................................................................................     5
Uses .................................................................................................................................................   6
Coordination and Approval .............................................................................................................                  6

Section B - Career Progression and Information
Specialty Description .......................................................................................................................            6
Duties and Responsibilities ..............................................................................................................               6
Specialty Qualifications ...................................................................................................................             7
Skill/Career Progression...................................................................................................................              8
        Apprentice (3) Level
        Journeyman (5) Level
        Craftsman (7) Level
        Superintendent (9) Level
Training Decisions ...........................................................................................................................            8
Community College of the Air Force ..............................................................................................                         9
Career Field Path .............................................................................................................................          11

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements
Purpose ..............................................................................................................................................   12
Specialty Qualification ......................................................................................................................           12
        Apprentice (3) Level Training
        Journeyman (5) Level Training
        Craftsman (7) Level Training
        Superintendent (9) Level Training

Section D - Resource Constraints .......................................................................................................                 14

Section E - Transitional Training Guide .............................................................................................                    14
________________________________________________________________________________________
OPR: 345TRS/TRRT
Certified By: CMSgt Timothy J. Jones, AFCFM, (HQ USAF/A4LM)
Supersedes: CFETP 2T2X1, 07 September 2008 and Change 1, 13 April 2011
Pages: 24




                                                                               i
Part II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard ....................................................................................          14

Section B - Course Objective List ..............................................................................................      16

Section C - Support Material ......................................................................................................   16

Section D - Training Course Index..............................................................................................       16

Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements.............................................................................                   16

Two attachments:
1. Qualitative Requirements (Proficiency Code Key).................................................................                   18
2. Specialty Training Standard (STS)..........................................................................................        19




                                                              Master




                        Basic                                                                                  Senior


The falcon at the center of the badge symbolizes the Air Force. It also symbolizes American military
strength, dedication, and devotion to duty of transporters who support the generation and employment
of aerospace forces across the full spectrum of warfare. In its talons, the falcon is holding the globe
with three encircling arrows, symbolic of the extensive range of our logistics support mission and
capability to sustain our forces by land, sea, or air. The olive branch surrounding the badge
symbolizes the peace aerospace forces provide through a professional transportation community.




                                                                      ii
                             AIR TRANSPORTATION SPECIALTY

                                   AFSC 2T2X1
                    CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

Part I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP provides personnel a
clear career path to success and covers all aspects of career field training. Note: Civilians occupying
associated positions will use Part II to support their duty position qualification training.
2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors plan, manage, and control training within the
specialty using both parts of the plan.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression information,
duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C associates each level
with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, experience, training, and other). Section D
indicates resource constraints (i.e. funds, manpower, equipment, facilities). Section E identifies
transition training plans for the 2T2X1 career field.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and
includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training, Air Education and Training Command
(AETC) conducted training, wartime tasks, core tasks, and correspondence course requirements;
Section B, the Course Objective List, is currently reserved. Section C identifies available training
materials such as HQ AMC Qualification Training Packages (QTPs) which were developed to
support upgrade and proficiency training. These packages are located on the following website:
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4tr/atsev/qtp/hello.html;
Section D has a training course index supervisors can refer to for available support training. This area
lists both mandatory and optional courses; Section E identifies MAJCOM unique training
requirements supervisors can use to determine additional qualification training.

3. Using this CFETP as a guide will ensure individuals in this specialty receive effective and efficient
training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan enables us to train today's work force for
tomorrow's jobs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct
training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                   1
                             ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED
Advanced Distributed Learning (ADL). ADL is an evolution of distributive learning (distance
learning) that emphasizes collaboration on standards-based versions of reusable objects, networks,
and learning management systems, yet may include some legacy methods and media.

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course that provides individuals who are qualified in one or more
positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their
expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). The Air Force focal point for the designated career
field within a functional community. Serves as the primary advocate for the career field, addressing
issues and coordinating functional concerns across various staffs. Responsible for the career field
policy and guidance.

Air Force Expeditionary Center (USAF EC). Air Mobility Command’s center for continued
training. Several courses related to AFSC 2T2X1 are offered as unit-funded courses. Class quotas
are controlled by HQ AMC/A4TR and administered through the MFM.

Aerial Port Expediter (APEX). An aircraft cargo loading program that empowers APEX load
directors to load and unload cargo on C-17/C-5 aircraft without a loadmaster.

Air Reserve Component (ARC). All units, organizations and members of the Air National Guard
(ANG) and the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC).

Air Transportation Standardization and Evaluation-Quality Assurance (ATSEV-QA). Provides
AMC/A4T and unit commanders with an assessment of a unit’s ability to perform key air
transportation processes ensuring standardized, repeatable, technically compliant process execution,
while promoting a culture of professional excellence and personal responsibility

Air Transportation Web Based Training (ATWBT). Computer based instruction in areas directly
related to items found in the 2T2X1 STS

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive, multipurpose
document encapsulating the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines a
logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career field training
identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget defensible.

Cargo Movement Operations System (CMOS). An Air Force standard system that integrates basic
Department of Defense (DoD) and Air Force transportation policies and procedures. This system
automates information management in receiving, shipment planning, packing and crating, and
air/surface terminal work centers during normal operations and transportation mobility operations
during wartime/crisis situations.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present or
future duty assignments.

Core Task. Tasks the AFCFM identifies as minimum qualification requirements within an AFSC,
regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill level or in general
across the AFSC. Guidance for using core tasks can be found in the applicable CFETP narrative.
(Reference: AFI 36-2201) Note: Core Tasks are identified by (*) in the 2T2X1 STS, Column 2.




                                                  2
Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA). Contains specific MAJCOM
procedures, fund citations, reporting instructions, and listings for those formal courses conducted or
managed by the MAJCOMs or field operating agencies. https://etca.randolph.af.mil

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or
other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training. Special or regular on-site training conducted by a Training Detachment
(TD) or by a Mobile Training Team (MTT).

Global Air Transportation Execution System (GATES). A web-based system used for processing
cargo and passengers within the Defense Transportation System.

Hand Held Terminals (HHT). A remote scanning device used to process cargo shipments into the
GATES system.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems.

Initial Skills Training. A formal resident course whose end is the award of the 3-skill level.

Intransit Visibility (ITV). The ability to track the identity, status, and location of DoD unit and non-
unit cargo and passengers, patients, and personal property from origin to consignee or destination
during peace, contingencies, and war.

 Air Force Logistics Readiness Board (AFLRB), Logistics Readiness Chiefs Advisory Group
(LogR CAG). Meets at the direction of HQ AF/A4/7 to discuss significant issues, priorities and
policies. Provides advice and counsel to HQ AF/A4/7 concerning the enlisted logistics readiness
community and resolves problems affecting the enlisted force and the overall mission. It also
provides recommendations and initiatives for future training needs, career progression trends, and
identifies information systems needs.

Master Task Listing (MTL). A comprehensive task list describing a particular job type or duty
position. Supervisors must use MTLs to document task qualifications. The tasks on MTLs are
common to all personnel serving in the described duty position.

Nuclear Weapons Related Material (NWRM). Classified or unclassified assemblies and
subassemblies (containing no fissionable or fusionable materiel) identified by the Military
Departments that comprise or could comprise a standardized war reserve nuclear weapon (including
equivalent training devices) as it would exist once separated/removed from its intended delivery
vehicle.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify personnel in
both upgrade (skill-level award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training.

Optimal Training. The ideal combination of training settings results in the highest levels of
proficiency on specified performance requirements within the minimum time possible.


                                                   3
Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence, exportable advanced training courses,
or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the
minimum required for upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
individual in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel on-the-job training program
occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance
skills required doing the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit to
qualify or aid qualification in a duty position, program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed,
computer-based, or in other audiovisual media. Currently HQ AMC owns and the USAF/EC
maintains QTPs that can be accessed through the HQ AMC/A4TR web page:
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4tr/atsev/qtp/hello.html

Radio Frequency Identification (RFID). A family of technologies that enables hands-off
processing of material transactions for cargo deploying through the Defense Transportation System.
RFID provides operators a means to remotely identify, categorize, and locate material automatically
within relatively short distances.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, man power, and
equipment that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Skills Training. Training which awards a skill level.

Special Experience Identifier (SEI). SEIs may be used when specific experience or training is
critical to the job and no other means is appropriate or available.

Specialty Training. Mixed formal and informal training to qualify and upgrade Airmen in the award
of a skill level.

Specialty Training Packages and COMSEC Qualification Training Package. Packages
composed of lesson plans, test material, instructions, policy, doctrine, and procedures necessary for
training. These packages are prepared by AETC, approved by National Security Agency (NSA), and
administered by qualified communications security (COMSEC) maintenance personnel.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes the skills and
knowledge that airman in a particular Air Force specialty needs on the job. It further serves as a
contract between AETC and the user to show the overall training requirements for an Air Force
specialty code that the formal schools teach.

Specialty Training Requirement Team (STRT). A group consisting of AFCFM and MAJCOM
FMs who decide training requirements needed prior to the U&TW.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities
or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed quantity or quality.

Task Module (TM). A group of tasks performed within an Air Force specialty that are performed
together and that require common knowledge, skills, and abilities. An identification code and a
statement identify TMs.




                                                   4
Total Force. The components of the United States Air Force: active duty, reserve, guard, and
civilian elements.

Training Business Area (TBA). A web-based application providing real-time visibility of technical
qualifications, certifications, and training status. It duplicates or replaces the functionality of the STS.
TBA is maintained by 754th Electronic Systems Group, Installation and Logistics, Maintenance
Flight (754 ELSG/ILM) at Maxwell-Gunter AFB.

Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW; however TPTs are
more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues are greater than is normal in
the U&TW forum.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-
job, field training, mobile training team, self-study etc.).

Transportation Proficiency Center (TPC). Located at Dobbins ARB, GA the Air Force Reserve
Command TPC provides 2T2X1 AFSC training primarily focused on apprentice OJT program
support for Air Reserve Component (ARC) retrainees and further specialized transportation training.

Upgrade Training (UGT).          Mandatory training which leads to attainment of higher level of
proficiency.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A workshop co-chaired by an AFCFM and Training
Pipeline Manager, attended by MAJCOM Air Force Specialty (AFS) functional managers, Subject
Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel who develop the STS and determine career
ladder training requirements.

Section A - General Information
1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for the AFCFM, MAJCOM functional
managers (MFMs), commanders, training managers, supervisors and trainers to plan, develop,
manage, and conduct an effective career field training program. This plan outlines the training that
individuals in this AFS should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This
plan identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills
training is the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon
retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training is conducted by
AETC at one of the technical training centers. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses,
task qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the
3-, 5-, 7-, 9-skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed
to qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after
the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to
do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected Airmen. The CFETP has
several purposes, to include:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field-training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual's career.

1.2. Identifies task and subject knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty
and recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the training
delivery method.


                                                     5
1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career field
training process.

2. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive and
cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, field and exportable
training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the CFETP.
They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed
to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade,
and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by OJT, resident training,
contract training, or exportable courses. MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFSC must be
identified for inclusion into the plan.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The
lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approving official and waiver authority for any
changes to, and deviations from, this CFETP. The AFCFM will initiate an annual review of this
document to ensure currency and accuracy. MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel
will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part
II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

Section B - Career Progression and Information

1. Specialty Description.

1.1. Performs and manages air transportation activities. Plans, schedules and processes eligible
passengers and cargo for air movement. Loads and unloads passengers, cargo, and baggage moved
on military and commercial-contract aircraft. Prepares and maintains air movement records and
reports. Performs aircraft cleaning services and delivers meals and comfort item supplies to aircraft.
Operates forklifts and aircraft loading equipment. Uses computer systems to provide in-transit
visibility over passenger and cargo movement operations. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup:
155300.

1.2. Duties And Responsibilities.

1.2.1. Plans, organizes, directs, coordinates, and controls air transportation activities. Determines and
justifies personnel, equipment, and facilities required to accomplish air transportation functions.
Supplements policies, directs personnel, and establishes procedures to process, load, document, and
report passengers and cargo transported by air, including paratroops and cargo moved using aerial
delivery methods. Develops procedures for handling special category passengers. Enforces safety
and security measures.

1.2.2. Determines and implements necessary safety and security precautions for handling and storing
dangerous materials, special cargoes, mail, and baggage. Plans and manages fleet service activities to
provide cleaning, lavatory servicing, and meal delivery on aircraft. Supervises forklift and aircraft
loading equipment use for passenger and cargo loading and unloading operations. Inspects airlift
activities for compliance and recommends corrective action. Conducts personnel and equipment
management surveys, and provides technical assistance as required.



                                                    6
1.2.3. Provides the Department of Defense a capability to move air passengers worldwide. Offers
customers information on flight schedules, routes, air movement requirements, baggage limitations,
and specifics on local facilities. Performs procedures to check in, process, schedule, transport, and
escort passengers to and from aircraft. Ensures all passenger border clearance requirements have
been met. Operates terminal security equipment and conducts passenger and baggage security
inspections. Reviews passenger travel authorizations for validity and accuracy. Applies common
user and international tariff rates, collects fares, and accounts for documents and monies. Uses
computer systems to provide in-transit visibility and to document passenger movement operations.

1.2.4. Provides the Department of Defense a capability to move air cargo worldwide. Verifies
eligibility of cargo offered for airlift. Ensures all cargo documentation, packaging, labeling and
marking requirements, and border clearance requirements have been met. Determines quantity and
type of cargo to be loaded according to allowable aircraft cabin load. Selects, assembles, palletizes,
and transports cargo loads to and from aircraft and storage areas. Checks cargo against manifests and
annotates shipment overages, shortages, or damages. Secures cargo with appropriate restraint
equipment. Exercises necessary safety and security precautions in handling and storing hazardous or
special cargoes and mail. Packs cargo parachutes, rigs airdrop platforms, and loads aircraft
performing aerial delivery tactics. Uses computer systems to provide in-transit visibility and to
document cargo movement operations.

1.2.5. Performs command and control and fleet service functions. Prepares, completes, and
maintains air movement’s records, documents, and reports. Prepares and maintains travel forms and
weight and balance records. Preplans and computes aircraft load distribution. Ensures aircraft
cleanliness and maintains records on fleet service equipment, supplies, and activities. Completes
actions to requisition, store, and issue expendable and nonexpendable items for use on aircraft.
Delivers supplies and meals to aircraft.

1.3. Specialty Qualifications:

1.3.1. Knowledge. Mandatory knowledge comprises a thorough understanding of passenger and
cargo movement functions to include transport aircraft types, capabilities, and configuration; weight
and balance factors; airlift transportation directives and documentation; cargo restraint techniques;
border clearance requirements; operation of materials handling and other types of loading equipment
or devices, fleet service functions; automated data processing equipment and its application in airlift
activities; passenger service functions, and customer relations principles; and aerial delivery
techniques and equipment use.

1.3.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school or a general educational
development equivalency is desirable.

1.3.3. Training. Completion of a basic air transportation course is mandatory for award of the
2T231 AFSC. Note: Prior service ARC personnel will complete the apprentice course or
requirements directed by their MFMs with CFM coordination and approval.

1.3.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

1.3.4.1. 2T251. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2T231. Also, experience in functions such
as processing cargo, loading and unloading aircraft; operating automated or manual materials
handling and other loading equipment; processing and loading and unloading passengers; performing
aircraft fleet service functions; rigging aerial delivery cargo; or processing, scheduling, and
maintaining records relating to passenger and cargo movement.




                                                  7
1.3.4.2. 2T271. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2T251. In addition, experience
supervising functions such as preparing aircraft load plans; processing cargo and loading and
unloading aircraft; operating automated or manual materials handling and other loading equipment;
processing and loading and unloading passengers; performing aircraft fleet service functions; rigging
aerial delivery cargo; or processing, scheduling, and maintaining records on passenger and cargo
movement.

1.3.4.3. 2T291. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2T271. Also, experience managing
passenger and cargo movement activities.

1.3.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:

1.3.5.1. See Enlisted Classification Directory (ECD) for entry requirements.

1.3.5.2. For entry, award, and retention, members in upgrade training in the 2T2XX AFSC must be
qualified to operate government vehicles according to AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.

1.3.5.3. For award and retention of 2T2XX AFSC members must maintain an Air Force Network
License according to AFI 33-115, Vol. 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network
Professionals.

2. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent skill-level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its mission.
It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, manage, and conduct an
effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each
individual receives viable training at appropriate points in their career.

2.1.1. Apprentice, 3-Level. Upon completion of initial skills training by attending the Air
Transportation Apprentice Course, trainees will work with a trainer to enhance their knowledge and
skills. They will utilize the 5-level Career Development Course (CDC), the MTL for the assigned
duty position, and other exportable courses to progress in the career field. Once qualified on a task
("signed off"), a trainee may perform the task unsupervised. Note: Prior service ARC personnel will
complete the apprentice course or requirements directed by their MFMs with CFM coordination and
approval

2.1.2. Journeyman 5-Level. Once upgraded to the 5-level, a journeyman will enter into
continuation training to broaden their experience base. 5-levels may be assigned job positions such as
information control, passenger service duties, fleet service duties, cargo and load team member, aerial
delivery, and various staff positions. Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for testing under
WAPS. Members are strongly encouraged to continue their education toward a CCAF degree.

2.1.3. Craftsman 7-Level. A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management
positions such as shift supervisor, section chief, senior controller, and task certifier. They will also be
assigned to work in staff positions. 7-levels should take courses or obtain added knowledge on
management of resources and personnel. For award of the 7-level, completion of 7-level CDC is
required. Members are strongly encouraged to complete academic education through CCAF and
higher degree programs.

2.1.4. Superintendent 9-Level. A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief,
NCOIC, superintendent, and various staff jobs. Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower,
resources and personnel management should be pursued through continued education. Additional
higher education and completion of courses outside of the career AFSC are also recommended. Once
developed and approved, Air Transportation MSgt’s will also be required to complete the Logistics
Readiness SNCO Course.

                                                    8
3. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Air Transportation career field. The
spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training requirements. The
strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed
approach to training

3.1. Initial Skills. Initial/Entry level training will usually be developed and taught by AETC. 2T231
AFSC is awarded following successful completion of the Air Transportation Apprentice Course.
Note: ARC personnel will complete the apprentice course. Those ARC prior service personnel not
attending the formal technical school must complete the Transportation Proficiency Center basic
course. In addition, these personnel must complete knowledge training on all tasks taught in the
initial skills course combined with additional mandatory requirements identified by the ARC MFM
and approved by the 2T2 CFM. Only after mandated OJT completion are prior service personnel
awarded a 3-skill level.

3.2. 5-Level Upgrade Requirements. 2T251 AFSC is awarded following successful completion of:
15 months OJT (9 months for retraining personnel), all 5-level core task items identified in the 2T2X1
STS, all 5-level CDCs, and other duty position tasks identified by the supervisor.

3.3. 7-Level Upgrade Requirements. 2T271 AFSC is awarded following successful completion
of: the 7-level CDCs; 12 months OJT (6 months for retraining personnel); all 5- and 7-level core task
items identified in the 2T2X1 STS; and attainment of the grade of SSgt.

3.4. Proficiency Training. Additional training, (in-residence, exportable or OJT training) used to
increase skills and knowledge beyond minimum upgrade requirements. MAJCOMs are directed to
use QTPs whenever possible to train their personnel to the highest level based on available equipment
or the MTL for specific duty positions. While use of the QTPs is directed, the Air Transportation
Standardization and Evaluation - Quality Assurance (ATSEV-QA) program will not be implemented
for all MAJCOMs other than by standing agreements.

4. Community College of the Air Force. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic
military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Sciences Degree.
In addition to the associate degree program, CCAF offers the following:

4.1. Professional Certification. CCAF offers multiple professional certifications based on specific
education, experience and qualification requirements. Two certifications are listed below. For
additional information on these and other certifications, see the CCAF web site
(http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp).

4.1.1. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC). The CIC program replaced the Occupational
Instructor Certification (OIC) on 1 January 2011. The purpose of the CIC is to recognize the
instructor's extensive faculty development training, education and qualification required to teach a
CCAF course and formally acknowledges the instructor's practical teaching experience.

4.1.2. Professional Manager Certification (PMC): CCAF offers the PMC for qualified senior Air
Force enlisted personnel who have demonstrated an advanced level of professional accomplishment.
The purpose of the certification is to recognize the individual’s outstanding education and training
required to lead and manage Air Force personnel and critical national defense assets.

4.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill certification
is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a competency based assessment
process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels: Apprentice, Journeyman,
Craftsman/Supervisor, or Master Craftsman/Manager. All levels are transcribed on the CCAF
transcript.

                                                  9
4.3. Degree Requirements. All Airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Prior to
being awarded an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following requirements must
be met:

               Degree Requirements                                     Semester Hours
   Technical Education                                                       24
   Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                               6
   Residency Credit                                                           4
   General Education                                                         15
   Program Elective                                                          15
                       Total                                                 64

4.3.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): 12 semester hours must be applied from technical
core courses. The remaining semester hours are applied from either technical core or technical
elective courses.

4.3.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): May be satisfied from
Professional Military Education, civilian management courses, and/or testing credit.

4.3.3. Residency Credit (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Technical or PME credit

4.3.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by application of
courses accepted in transfer or by testing credit. The criteria for application of courses to the general
education requirement are provided in the CCAF Catalog.

4.3.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable technical education;
leadership, management, and military studies; or general education requirements. This must include 6
semester hours of CCAF degree-applicable technical course credit, otherwise not applicable to this
program of enrollment. See the CCAF Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied
Science for this specialty.

4.4. Off-Duty Education. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is strongly
encouraged. Individuals desiring to become an Air Education and Training Command Instructor
should be actively pursuing an associate or higher degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain
accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                                   10
        5. Career Field Path

        5.1. Enlisted Career Path.




Table A5.1. Enlisted Career Path
                                                                              Grade Requirements
Education and Training Requirements                      Rank      Average        Earliest   High Year Of Tenure
                                                                   Sew-On         Sew-On           (HYT)
Basic Military Training school
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)              Amn       6 months

Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                    A1C      16 months
- Complete min. 15 months OJT/retrainees 9 months        SrA       3 years       28 months            8 years
- Complete all core tasks and duty position tasks
- Complete appropriate CDCs if/when available
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                                     Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service or be    - Must attend the formal AF Training course
  a SSgt selectee and a career airman                   - Must be qualified on tasks
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt sew-   - Must be recommended by the supervisor
  on (Active Duty Only)
Upgrade To Craftsman (7-skill Level)                     SSgt      7.5 years      3 years             15 years
- Minimum rank of SSgt
- Complete min. 12 months OJT/retrainees 6 months
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available
- Complete 5 and 7-level core tasks
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)                   TSgt     12.5 years      5 years             20 years
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt select
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt
sew-on (Active Duty Only)
- TSgt with 2 years TIG is eligible to enroll in the
SNCOA correspondence course, upon completion of
NCOA
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                          MSgt      16 years       8 years             24 years
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SMSgt
sew-on (Active Duty Only)
Upgrade To Superintendent (9-skill Level)               SMSgt     19.2 years      11 years            26 years
- Minimum rank of SMSgt
- LogR SNCO course (AF/A4L guidance TBD)
Chief Master Sergeant Leadership Orientation.           CMSgt     21.5 years      14 years            30 years
MAJCOM designed to provide newly selected
CMSgt’s a strategic perspective of their role as a
senior enlisted leader




                                                          11
5.2. My Enlisted Development Plan (MyEDP). All personnel are encouraged to establish a
personal development plan through the Air Force Portal. Personnel can establish an account by
selecting the Life & Career option from the Home page and following the prompts under My
Development Plan (https://www.my.af.mil/afpc2w20/myxdp). Designed to be your career
"roadmap", MyEDP aids in your continued professional development. The EDP is broken down
into three modules: Education, Training and Experience. Each module provides information to
enhance your familiarity. MyEDP does not guarantee success; it is only a suggested path based
on previous experiences of fellow enlisted members. The AFCFM and MFMs will periodically
post career field information and news in MyEDP under the career information tab.

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

1. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill
level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award and
retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements are identified in
the STS in Part II, Sections A and B of this CFETP.

2. Specialty Qualification:

2.1. Apprentice 3-Level Training:

2.1.1. Specialty Qualification.

2.1.1.1. Knowledge. Mandatory knowledge includes: passengers and cargo movement functions to
include transport aircraft types, capabilities, and configurations; weight and balance factors; airlift
transportation directives and documentation; cargo securing techniques; border clearance
requirements; operation of material handling and other types of loading equipment or devices, fleet
service functions; automated data processing equipment and its application in airlift activities;
passenger service functions, and customer relations principles; and aerial delivery techniques and
equipment.

2.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in English,
Computer Operation, and Mathematics is desirable.

2.1.1.3. Training. For award of 2T231 AFSC, completion of the basic air transportation course is
mandatory. Note: ARC prior service personnel not completing the formal technical school must
attend the Transportation Proficiency Center basic course. In addition, these personnel must complete
knowledge training on all tasks taught in the initial skills course combined with additional mandatory
requirements identified by the ARC MFM and approved by the 2T2 CFM. Only after completing
mandated OJT are prior service personnel awarded a 3-skill level.

2.1.1.4. Experience. After arrival at first duty station, (1) orient the trainee and conduct initial
evaluations, (2) evaluate and provide performance-based training on the tasks taught in technical
school, and (3) identify and start training in additional tasks required to fully utilize trainee in their
duty position.

2.1.2. Training Sources. The 2T2X1 AFSC STS provides the knowledge and task requirements for
upgrade to the 3-skill level.

2.1.3. Implementation. Entry into training occurs upon completion of basic training. 2T231 AFSC
is awarded following successful completion of the Air Transportation Apprentice Course or meeting
prior service requirements in paragraph 2.1.1.3.

                                                   12
2.2. Journeyman 5-Level Training:

2.2.1. Specialty Qualification.

2.2.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: passengers and cargo movement functions to
include transport aircraft types, capabilities, and configurations; weight and balance factors; airlift
transportation directives and documentation; cargo securing techniques; border clearance
requirements; operation of material handling and other types of loading equipment or devices, fleet
service functions; automated data processing equipment and its application in airlift activities;
passenger service functions, and customer relations principles; and aerial delivery techniques and
equipment.

2.2.1.2. Training. Individuals must have a 15 month OJT/9 month retrainee period. Completion of
all 5-level core task items identified in the 2T2X1 STS and 5-level CDC

2.2.1.3. Experience. Qualification in and possession of 2T231 AFSC. In addition, experience in
functions such as loading and unloading aircraft; operating automated or manual materials handling
and other loading equipment and processing, scheduling, and maintaining records related to passenger
and cargo movement.

2.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. Successful completion of 5-level CDCs satisfies most of
the knowledge requirements for upgrade to the 5-skill level. The STS identifies additional mandatory
core task items required for upgrade.

2.2.3. Implementation. Enrollment in 5-level CDCs takes place upon arrival at the first permanent
duty station or supervisor’s discretion. Successful completion of the CDC, coupled with minimum 15
months OJT/9 month retrainee is required for upgrade to the 5-skill level.

2.3. Craftsman 7-Level Training:

2.3.1. Specialty Qualification.

2.3.1.1. Knowledge. Mandatory knowledge includes: passengers and cargo movement functions to
include transport aircraft types, capabilities, and configurations; weight and balance factors; airlift
transportation directives and documentation; cargo securing techniques; border clearance
requirements; operation of material handling and other types of loading equipment or devices, fleet
service functions; automated data processing equipment and its application in airlift activities;
passenger service functions, and customer relations principles; and aerial delivery techniques and
equipment.

2.3.1.2. Training. Upgrade training to the 7-skill level in this specialty consists of completion of 7-
level CDCs along with 12 months OJT/6 month retrainee, completion of all 7-level core task items
identified in the STS.

2.3.1.3. Experience. Qualification in and possession of 2T251 AFSC. In addition, experience
supervising functions such as preparing aircraft load plans; loading and unloading aircraft; operating
automated and manual materials handling equipment, processing, scheduling, and maintaining
records on passenger movement by airlift.

2.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. Successful completion of the 7-level CDCs, and 7-level
core task items satisfies the knowledge and task requirements specific for the 7-level.

2.3.3. Implementation. Entry into training occurs upon selection for promotion. 7-level is awarded
upon completion of all 5 and 7-level core tasks and all duty position tasks.

                                                  13
2.4. Superintendent 9-Level Training:

2.4.1. Specialty Qualification.

2.4.1.1. Knowledge. Mandatory knowledge includes: passengers and cargo movement functions to
include transport aircraft types, capabilities, and configurations; weight and balance factors; airlift
transportation directives and documentation; cargo securing techniques; border clearance
requirements; operation of material handling and other types of loading equipment or devices, fleet
service functions; automated data processing equipment and its application in airlift activities;
passenger service functions, and customer relations principles; and aerial delivery techniques and
equipment.

2.4.1.2. Training. An individual must be a SMSgt to be awarded the 2T291 skill-level.

2.4.1.3. Experience. Qualification in and possession of 2T291 AFSC.                 Also, experience in
managing passenger, cargo, and aerial delivery activities.

2.5. Training Sources/Resources. Completion of all applicable QTPs should satisfy knowledge and
experience requirements listed above. In addition, the Logistics Readiness SNCO Course (when
approved by AF/A4L and on-line) will provide increased knowledge on the entire Logistics
Readiness enterprise so that Air Transportation SNCOs are better prepared to serve in superintendent
or other strategic level logistics readiness positions.

Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints which preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect
each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions required, office
of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum,
reviewed and updated annually.

12. ARC Apprentice 3-Level Training for prior service personnel

12.1. Constraint: 3-level CDCs historically have low pass and completion rates.

12.1.1. Impact: Varies according to prior service personnel entry and CDC request.

12.1.2. Resources Required: One (1) Active Duty CDC author.

12.1.3. Action Required: Establish alternative training guidance for ARC prior service personnel.

12.2. OPR/Target Completion Date: 2T2 CFM and ARC FAMs / Oct 2012.

Section E. Transitional Training Guide
“There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.”

Part II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard (STS)

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for Air
Transportation Apprentice classes beginning 8 March 2012 graduating 17 April 2012.


                                                  14
2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201 and this STS:

2.1. Column 1 lists the most common tasks, knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for
airman to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level of the Air Transportation ladder of the
Transportation Career Field. During times when asked to accelerate to wartime surge, apprentice
course will be taught 10 hours a day, 6 days a week.

2.2. Column 2 identifies Core Tasks using an “*”. The * is placed in the column corresponding to
the 3-, 5-, or 7-skill level to identify specialty-wide training requirements for that level. These tasks
and knowledge items are based on an analysis of the duties and responsibilities contained in the Air
Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), The Official Guide to the Air Force Enlisted
Classification Codes. Core Task STS line items are mandatory and must be completed before the 5-
or 7-skill level can be awarded.

2.3. Column 3 provides space for certification of OJT and is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. If available, supervisors and trainers should use the automated
training management systems to document technician qualifications. Task certification must show a
start and completion date and include both trainer and trainee initials. Note: There are currently no
tasks in the Air Transportation career field requiring third party certification.

2.4. Column 4 identifies the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the formal AETC school
graduate as a result of training on the task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the
correspondence course. See unit training manager for current CDC list.

2.5. Attachment 1 shows the qualitative requirements and the proficiency code key used to indicate
the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.

2.6. The STS becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when automated or
placed in AF Form 623, Individual Training Record. Document and certify completion of training
IAW AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program. Tasks are trained and qualified to the “go/no go”
level. “Go” means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meet local demands for
accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures.

2.7. The STS is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). The Specialty Knowledge Test (SKT) is developed at the HQ AETC Airman
Advancement Division by SNCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The test
samples knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members as most
appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the
WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in chapter 1 of AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military
Personnel Testing System. WAPS is not applicable to the Air Force Reserves and Air National
Guard.

2.8. 2T2 AFCFM Policy Exception: When core task(s) training or capability does not exist on the
local installation, the core task(s) will be annotated as “no training capability exists on local
installation” and filed in the trainee’s OJT record or automated system. After coordination with the
MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM), the unit will maintain a letter listing applicable STS core
task(s), signed by the unit commander, certifying no capability exists on local installation. The letter
will include the specific core task(s) and the STS line item reference(s). The unit commander’s letter
will be updated bi-annually and forwarded to the MFM. When a new unit commander is assigned,
the work center supervisor will file an updated commander certified letter within 120 days of the new
commander’s appointment.

3. Additional Requirements: MAJCOMs will use QTPs to train to their utmost capability based on
available equipment or tasks performed at a specific location. Partial use of QTP training steps is

                                                   15
authorized if not all required resources exist locally. It is not necessary to send people to off-station
training to meet requirements created by QTP compliance.

4. Recommendations:

4.1. Unit Training. Managers, superintendents, and supervisors will ensure personnel are trained on
all applicable STS items.

4.2. Graduate Performance. Report unsatisfactory performance of course graduates and any
inadequacies of this CFETP to the 345 TRS/TRR, 711 B Avenue, Ft Lee, VA 23801-1798, or call
Customer Service Information Line DSN 473-2917, reference specific STS paragraphs.

Section B - Course Objective List: This area is currently reserved.

Section C - Support Material:
5. The following list of support materials is not all-inclusive; however, it covers the most frequently
referenced areas.

5.1. To standardize training across the air transportation career field, MAJCOMs will adopt and
utilize the HQ AMC QTPs and instructional packages to support their training efforts.

Section D - Training Course Index

6. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty and
how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs.

7. Air Force In-Residence Courses.
COURSE NUMBER             TITLE                                              LOCATION           USER
LCABP2T231 00AB           Air Transportation Apprentice                       Ft Lee, VA        DOD
LCAZP2T051 00AA           Hazardous Mat Preparer (Initial)                    Ft Lee, VA        DOD
L7AZT2T051 00AA           Hazardous Mat Preparer (Initial)                    Mobile Training   DOD
LCAZP2T251 00AA           Hazardous Mat Airlift Inspector (Initial)           Ft Lee, VA        DOD
L7AZT2T251 00AA           Hazardous Mat Airlift Inspector (Initial)           Mobile Training   DOD
L7AZB2T251 00AA           Airdrop Specialist                                  Mobile Training   DOD
L9AZA2T251 00AA           Airdrop Specialist                                  Ft Lee, VA        DOD
AMC MAPOC                 Management of Aerial Port Ops (MAPOC)              JB-MDL, NJ         DOD
AMC APO                   Aerial Port Operations Course (APO)                JB-MDL, NJ         DOD
AMC JIIQ                  Joint Inspection Instructor Qualification (JIIQ)   JB-MDL, NJ         DOD
C-17 APEX                 C-17 APEX Load Directors Course                    Mobile Training    AMC
C-5 APEX                  C-5 APEX Load Directors Course                     Mobile Training    AMC

8. Career Development Courses
COURSE NUMBER                TITLE                                           LOCATION                  USER
CDC 2T231                Air Transportation Apprentice                       Ft Lee, VA                ARC
CDC 2T251                Air Transportation Journeyman                       Ft Lee, VA                AF
CDC 2T271                Air Transportation Craftsman                        Ft Lee, VA                AF

9. Exportable Courses
COURSE NUMBER               TITLE                                            LOCATION                  USER
L6ARW2T251 00AA          Hazardous Mat Airlift Inspector (Refresher)         Ft Lee, VA                AF
L6ARW2T051 00AA          Hazardous Mat Preparer (Refresher)                  Ft Lee, VA                AF

10. Courses Under Development/Revision
COURSE NUMBER               TITLE                                            LOCATION                  USER
Release TBD            LogR SNCO course                                        AFDL             AF Log AFSCs

Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements


                                                       16
11. Qualification Training Package (QTP): The USAF EC is responsible for maintaining AMC’s
QTPs. They will remain the sole-source for QTPs. MAJCOMs are not authorized to modify QTPs to
meet their needs. This will keep training standardized and ensure QTPs are updated as required.
Users can find the QTPs on the web page at the following URL:
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4t/a4tr/atsev/qtp/hello.html
HQ AMC’s ATSEV-QA program will not be implemented outside of AMC. However, to standardize
our training, MAJCOMs will utilize the QTP training effort and instructional packages embedded in
the ATSEV-QA. Air Reserve Component (ARC) forces will apply ATSEV-QA in accordance with
AMC/ARC agreements.

12. Air Reserve Component: With 2T2 CFM approval, ARC FAMs will determine training
requirements for award of 2T231 AFSC to prior service personnel. The following list of courses is
available to the ARC.

COURSE NUMBER         TITLE                  LOCATION                           USER
RES 2T2X1 Transportation Proficiency Course Dobbins ARB, GA                     ARC

13. The following is a list of MAJCOM unique Air Transportation Web-Based Training (ATWBT)
courses. Completion of these courses is mandatory in the Air Mobility Command (AMC). Note:
failure to complete all the ATWBT courses will not delay attainment of the next higher skill level if
all other requirements have been met. These courses can be located at the Advanced Distributed
Learning Service (ADLS) by following this web URL: https://amc.csd.disa.mil/kc/login/login.asp

Course Title
Aerial Port Vehicles Course (WBT VEHICLES)
Air Freight Course (WBT CARGO OPS)
Air Terminal Operations Course (WBT ATOC)
Data Records Processing Course (WBT DATA RCDS)
Passenger Services Operations Course (WBT PAX OPS)
C-17 APEX (WBT C-17 APEX)
C-17 APEX (WBT C-17 APEX Refresher)
C-5 APEX (WBT C-5 APEX)
C-5 APEX (WBT C-5 APEX Refresher)
Hazardous Material Handler Refresher (WBT HAZ REF)
Load Planning (WBT Load Planning)
Customer Service (WBT Customer)
Global Air Transportation Execution System Course (WBT GATES)

Courses Under Development/Revision
None at this time


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                    JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support


Two Attachments:
1. Qualitative requirements (Proficiency Code Key)
2. STS

                                                 17
                                               This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                       Initials (Written)             SSAN

                                                 Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                    N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I



Attachment 1                                    QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                               Proficiency Code Key
                                    Scale     Definition: The individual
                                    Value
                                       1      Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                              Limited)
          Task                         2      Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance                      3      Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                        4      Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (Highly
                                              Proficient)
                                       a      Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
         *Task                         b      Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge                       c      Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                              (Operating Principles)
          Levels                       d      Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                       A      Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
       **Subject                       B      Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
       Knowledge                       C      Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
         Levels                        D      Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a subject
common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X - This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

Q – This mark, to the left of column 1, identifies QTP instructional support for specific task.

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                      18
                                                       2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                            Training/Information Provided (See Note)
      1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E             A                B                C
                                                                                                                               3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                       3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)
QTP                                                                               Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

        1. Career path progression
        TR: AFI 36-2101; 36-2201; 36-2618
Q       1.1. Transportation career field                                                                                        A        A       -        B        -        -
Q       1.2. Ladder/duties of 2T2XX AFSC                                                                                        A        A       -        B        -        -

Q       2. Information warfare/OPSEC                                                                                            A        A       -         -       -        -
         vulnerabilities of AFSC 2T2XX
         TR: AFI 10-701, 31-401
        3. AF occupational safety and health
         (AFOSH) Program
         TR: AFI 32-2001, 32-7040/41/42/44/47,
         90-802; 91-202, 91-301, 91-302, AFMAN
         23-220, 24-306(I), 91-100, 91-201;
         AFPAM 32-7043; AFOSH 91-46; 91-66
Q       3.1. Hazards and general safety practices of              *                                                             A        A       -        B        -        -
             AFSC 2T2XX
Q       3.2. Flight line safety precautions                       *                                                             A        A       -        B        -        -
        3.3. Environmental compliance
Q       3.3.1. Initial federal hazard communication                                                                             A        -       -        -        -        -
Q       3.3.2. Hazardous waste management                                                                                       A        A       -        A        -        -
Q       3.3.3. Pollution prevention                                                                                             A        A       -        A        -        -
Q       3.3.4. Waste minimization                                                                                               A        A       -        A        -        -
Q       3.3.5. Hazardous material management                                                                                    A        A       -        A        -        -
Q       3.4. Accident prevention                                                                                                A        A       -        B        -        -
Q       3.5. Accident reporting                                                                                                 -        -       -        -        -        -
Q       3.6. Report of survey                                                                                                   -        -       -        -        -        -
        4. Supervision
         TR: AFI 23-111, 36-2101/03; 36-2201, 36-
         2406, 36-2907, 36-2503, 38-101, 38-201,
         38-203/04/05 AFPAM 36-2627 AFPD 36-
         5, 36-6, 36-10; AMC 24-101 Vol 6 & 14
-       4.1. Orient new personnel                                                                                                -       -       -        -        -        -
-       4.2. Assign personnel to work crews                               *                                                      -       -       -        a        -        b
-       4.3. Plan work assignments and priorities                         *                                                      -       -       -        a        -        b
-       4.4. Schedule work assignments                                    *                                                      -       -       -        a        -        b
Q       4.5. Establish work methods/control/                                                                                     -       -       -        -        -        -
             performance standards
 -      4.6. Prepare organizational and functional                                                                               -       -       -         -       -        -
             charts
Q       4.7. Justify personnel/ equipment                                 *                                                      -       -       -        a        -        b
-       4.8. Coordinate work with other functions                                                                                -       -       -        -        -        -
Q       4.9. Resource Protection                                          *                                                      -       -       -        -        -        -
        5. Training
         TR: AFH36-2235 Vol 11; AFI 36-2201;
         AFMAN 36-2236; Education and Training
         Course Announcements (ETCA)
-       5.1. Determine need for training                                  *                                                      -       -        -        -       -        -
Q       5.2. Conduct training                                             *                                                      -       -       -         -       -        -
Q       5.3. Evaluate training                                            *                                                      -       -       -         -       -        -
        6. Organization and mission of military
         airlift systems
         TR: DTR; AMCI 24-101; Joint Pub 3-0, 4-
         0 Appropriate aircraft -1 TO; AFI 10-1002,
         10-1003 AFMAN 11-225 AFPD 10-10
Q       6.1. Organization/mission                                                                                               A        A       -        A        -        -
Q       6.2. Joint/Multi-National Logistics                                                                                     -        -       -        A        -        B
Q       6.3. Types and descriptions of transport                                                                                A        A       -        A        -        -
             aircraft
Q       6.4. Civil Reserve Air Fleet                                                                                            A        -       -        A        -        -
                                                                        19
                                                       2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                            Training/Information Provided (See Note)
      1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E             A               B                 C
                                                                                                                               3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                       3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)
QTP                                                                               Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

Q       6.5. Airlift roles and requirements (Theater                                                                             -       -       -         -       -        B
             and Strategic)
        7. Deployment operations
         TR: DTR Part III; AFI 10-401, 10-403
         AFMAN 10-100; AMC: 24-101 Vol 22
Q       7.1. Deployment mission and work centers                                                                                A        A       -        B        -        B
             (Home station/deployed)
Q       7.2. Accomplish Joint Inspection (JI)                                                                                    -       -       -        b        -        b
        8. Vehicles and Material Handling
         Equipment (MHE) TR: AFI 91-207, AFI
         23-302, 24-301, AFMAN 24-306 (I),
         AFTO Form 1800 Appropriate aircraft -9
         T.O.; Applicable T.O. 00, 35 and 36
         series/user’s manual, AFOSH STD: 91-66
        8.1. Operate Forklifts
Q       8.1.1. 4K forklift                                                                                                       a       a       -        a        -        -
Q       8.1.2. 10K forklift                                       *                                                              a       a       -        a        -        -
Q       8.1.3. 10K AT forklift                                                                                                   a       a       -        a        -        -
        8.2. Operate Aircraft Loaders                                                                                            -       -       -        -        -        -
Q       8.2.1. 25K Aircraft Loader                                                                                               a       a       -        a        -        -
Q       8.2.2. 60K Tunner Loader                                                                                                 a       a       -        a        -        -
Q       8.2.3. 25K Halvorsen Loader                                                                                              a       a       -        a        -        -
        8.3. Operate Passenger Service Vehicles
Q       8.3.1. Passenger bus                                                                                                     a       a       -        a        -        -
Q       8.3.2. Wide-body staircase                                                                                               a       a       -        a        -        -
Q       8.3.3. C-5 staircase                                                                                                     a       a       -        a        -        -
Q       8.3.4. Baggage conveyor                                                                                                  a       a       -        a        -        -
        8.4. Operate Fleet Service Vehicles
Q       8.4.1. Latrine service truck/cart                                                                                        a       a       -        a        -        -
Q       8.4.2. Potable Water Truck                                                                                               a       a       -        a        -        -
        8.5. Operate Tow Vehicle
Q       8.5.1. Warehouse Tug                                                                                                     a       a       -        a        -        -
Q       8.5.2. Pintle Hook                                                                                                       a       a       -        a        -        -
        9. Data Records, reports, forms, and
         publicationshttp://www.e-publishing.af.mil/
         TR: AFI: 24 Series, 33-360 DODR: 4500
         Series, AFMAN 33-322; AMCI 24-101 V6,
         Air Force Master Catalog, DTR, AFPD 24-
         2, T.O. 00-5-5, Command, Control,
         Communications, Computers and
         Intelligence Support Plan (C4ISP) from
         GATES
Q       9.1. Locate transportation forms                                                                                         -       -       -         -       -        -
Q       9.2. Locate information in transportation                 *                                                             2b       b       -         -       -        b
              publications
Q       9.3. Locate information in technical orders               *                                                              -       -       -        b        -        -
        9.4. Documentation and reports
Q       9.4.1. Review transportation documentation                                                                               a       a       -        b        -        -
        9.4.2. GATES reports TR: User Manual
Q       9.4.2.1. Generate scheduled reports                                                                                      -       -       -         -       -        -
Q       9.4.2.2. GATES Enterprise Management                                                                                     -       -       -         -       -        -
                  System (GEMS)
Q       9.4.3. Transportation Discrepancy reports                                                                                -       -       -        -        -        -
Q       9.5. Maintain transportation documentation                                                                               a       a       -        b        -        b
              files
Q       9.6. Re-handled workload logs                                                                                            -       -       -        b        -        b
Q       9.7. Conduct tracer action (cargo)                                                                                       -       -       -        b        -        -


                                                                        20
                                                          2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See Note)
      1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E             A               B                 C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                          3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)
QTP                                                                                  Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

Q       9.8. Reconcile Cargo and Passenger                                                                                          -       -       -        b        -        b
             Documentation
        10. Passenger Service Procedures
           TR: DTR, DODR 4515.13, 4500 series,
           AMCI: 24-101, AFI 10-403, 24-101, 24-
           405, 34-239, GATES & CMOS User's
           Manual
        10.1. Fundamentals
Q       10.1.1. Determine travel eligibility                         *                                                             2b       b       -        b        -        -
Q       10.1.2. Brief passengers on travel restrictions              *                                                              a       a       -        b        -        -
Q       10.1.3. Verify transportation                                *                                                             2b       b       -        b        -        -
        authorizations for space required passengers
Q       10.1.4. Coordinate movement of delayed or                                                                                   a       a       -        b        -        -
        diverted space required passengers
Q       10.1.5. Prepare in-flight meal requests                                                                                    2b       b       -        b        -        -
Q       10.1.6. Turn in cash collections                                                                                           2b       b       -        b        -        -
Q       10.1.7. Accept passenger’s baggage                           *                                                             2b       b       -        b        -        -
Q       10.1.8. Prepare rush baggage documentation                                                                                  -       -       -        b        -        -
Q       10.1.9. Special category passengers                                                                                        A        A       -        B        -        B
Q       10.1.10. Load/off-load passengers                            *                                                              -       -       -        b        -        -
        10.1.11. Flight Information
Q       10.1.11.1. Brief passengers                                  *                                                             2b       b       -        b        -        -
Q       10.1.11.2. Make PA system announcements                                                                                    2b       b       -        b        -        -
        10.2. GATES Passenger Procedures
Q       10.2.1. Setup flights                                                                                                      2b       b       -         -       -        -
Q       10.2.2. Maintain standby listings                                                                                          1b       a       -         -       -        -
Q       10.2.3. Select passengers for movement                                                                                     2b       b       -         -       -        -
        from standby listings
Q       10.2.4. Prepare standby movement                                                                                           2b       b       -         -       -        -
        transactions
Q       10.2.5. Prepare passenger manifests                                                                                        2b       b       -         -       -        -
Q       10.2.6. Compute passenger costs (e.g. space                                                                                2b       b       -         -       -        -
        required, excess baggage, and pets)
Q       10.2.7. Prepare baggage irregularity reports                                                                                -       -       -         -       -        -
Q       10.2.8. Prepare boarding passes                                                                                            2b       b       -         -       -        -
        10.3. CMOS Personnel Deployments
Q       10.3.1. Process personnel                                                                                                  2b       b       -         -       -        -
Q       10.3.2. Prepare final manifest                                                                                             2b       b       -         -       -        -
Q       10.3.3. Maintain standby listings                                                                                           -       -       -         -       -        -
        10.4. Manual Passenger Procedures
Q       10.4.1. Maintain standby listings                                                                                           -       -       -        b        -        -
Q       10.4.2. Select passengers for movement                                                                                      -       -       -        b        -        -
        from standby listings
Q       10.4.3. Prepare standby movement                                                                                            -       -       -        b        -        -
        transactions
Q       10.4.4. Prepare passenger manifests                                                                                         -       -       -        b        -        -
Q       10.4.5. Compute passenger costs (e.g. space                                                                                 -       -       -        b        -        -
        required, excess baggage, and pets)
Q       10.4.6. Prepare boarding passes                                                                                             -       -       -        b        -        -
Q       10.4.7. Prepare baggage irregularity reports                                                                                -       -       -        b        -        -
        10.5. Terminal security
Q       10.5.1. Conduct anti-hijack inspections                      *                                                            2b        b       -        b        -        -
Q       10.5.2. Inspect hand-carried items                           *                                                             a        a       -        b        -        -
Q       10.5.3. Operate terminal security equipment                  *                                                            2b        b       -        b        -        -

Q       11. Customer Relations TR: AMCI: 24-101                      *                                                            A         A       -        A        -        B



                                                                           21
                                                         2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                              Training/Information Provided (See Note)
      1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E             A                 B                 C
                                                                                                                                 3 Skill Level      5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                         3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)      (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)
QTP                                                                                 Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC         Course CDC       Course    CDC

        12. Air Freight TR: DTR AFMAN: 24-204,
           91-201 AFPD: 24-2; AMCI: 24-101 AFI:
           10-403, 91-302, CFR 49 T.O. Applicable
           00, 35 and 36 series, Applicable aircraft -
           1CXXX-9 series, US Postal Service
           Domestic Mail Manual Publication 52,
           GATES User's Manual
Q       12.1.1. Compute center of balance (e.g.                     *                                                            2b        b         -        b        -        -
        rolling stock, multi-pallet trains)
Q       12.1.2. Coordinate release of terminating                                                                                 a        a         -        b        -        -
        cargo/mail
-       12.1.3. Process land-bridge cargo                                                                                         a        a         -        b        -        -
Q       12.1.4. Load/off-load trucks                                                                                              -        -         -        -        -        -
Q       12.1.5. Maintain 463L pallets and nets                      *                                                             a        a         -        b        -        -
        12.1.6. Palletize cargo
Q       12.1.6.1. Single pallet                                     *                                                           2b         b         -        b        -        -
Q       12.1.6.2. Multi-pallet train                                *                                                           2b         b         -        b        -        -
        12.2. GATES Freight Procedures
Q       12.2.1. Process originating cargo/mail                                                                                   2b        b         -        -        -        -
Q       12.2.2. Process terminating cargo/mail                                                                                   2b        b         -        -        -        -
Q       12.2.3. Process intransit cargo/mail                                                                                     2b        b         -        -        -        -
Q       12.2.4. CAP pallet                                                                                                       2b        b         -        -        -        -
Q       12.2.5. Operate Hand-held terminals                                                                                      b         b         -        b        -        -
Q       12.2.6. Create Radio Frequency                                                                                           2b        b         -        b        -        -
                 Identification (RFID) tag
        12.3. CMOS Freight Procedures
Q       12.3.1. Process cargo increments                                                                                          2b           b     -         -       -        -
Q       12.3.2. Prepare final manifest                                                                                            2b           b     -         -       -        -
        12.4. Manual Freight Procedures
Q       12.4.1. Process originating cargo/mail                      *                                                              a           a     -        b        -        -
Q       12.4.2. Process terminating cargo/mail                      *                                                              a           a     -        b        -        -
Q       12.4.3. Process intransit cargo/mail                        *                                                              a           a     -        b        -        -
Q       12.4.4. Prepare pallet documentation                        *                                                             2b           b     -        b        -        -
        12.5. Special handling cargo
-       12.5.1. Special cargo characteristics                                                                                     A            A     -        -        -        -
Q       12.5.2. Nuclear Weapons Related Material                                                                                  A            A     -        A        -        B
                (NWRM) AFI 20-110
Q       12.5.3. Process classified shipments                                                                                       -           -     -        b        -        b
Q       12.5.4. Process human remains                                                                                              -           -     -        b        -        b
Q       12.5.5. Process expedited shipment                                                                                         -           -     -        b        -        b
                 (I.E.: MICAP, Greensheet, VVIP)
Q       12.5.6. Process registered mail                                                                                            -           -     -        b        -        b
Q       12.5.7. Process refrigeration and re-icing                                                                                 -           -     -        b        -        b
                 shipments
        12.6. Hazardous/Explosive materials
              TR: AMCI 24-101, Vol 11, AFMAN
              24-204(I)
Q       12.6.1. Hazardous materials                                                                                               A            A     -        B        -        -
Q       12.6.2. Transport                                           *                                                             -            -     -        b        -        b
Q       12.6.3. Determine compatibility                                                                                           -            -     -        b        -        b
Q       12.6.4. Placard                                                                                                           -            -     -        b        -        b
        13. Air Terminal Operations
        TR: AMCI: 24-101, AFMAN: 24-204 --
        GATES User's Manual, DTR, AFPD: 24-2
        13.1. Fundamentals
-       13.1.1. Work Center overview                                                                                              A            A     -        -        -        -
Q       13.1.2. Receive/ disseminate information                            *                                                     -            -     -        a        -        b
                                                                          22
                                                      2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
      1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E             A               B                 C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                      3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)
QTP                                                                              Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

Q       13.1.3. Brief aircrew on load information                                                                               -       -       -        b        -        -
Q       13.1.4. Deliver/receive cargo documentation                                                                             -       -       -        b        -        -
                to/from aircraft
        13.2. GATES Processing
Q       13.2.1. Accomplish arrival/departure                                                                                    -       -       -         -       -        -
                messages
Q       13.2.2. Accomplish mission folders, logs                                                                                -       -       -         -       -        -
                and trip setup sheets
        13.3. Manual Procedures
 -      13.3.1. Manually disseminate arrival and                         *                                                      -       -       -        a        -        b
                departure information
Q       13.3.2. Manually complete mission folders,                       *                                                      -       -       -        a        -        b
                logs, and trip setup sheets
Q       13.4. Perform capability forecasting                                                                                    -       -       -        a        -        b
        13.5. Load Planning
Q       13.5.1. Accomplish air terminal inventory                                                                               -       -       -        b        -        b
Q       13.5.2. Select loads using GATES                                                                                        -       -       -        -        -        -
Q       13.5.3. Select loads manually                                                                                           -       -       -        a        -        b
Q       13.5.4. Compute aircraft center of balance                                                                              -       -       -        -        -        -
                using automated system
Q       13.5.5. Compute aircraft center of balance                                                                              -       -       -         -       -        -
                manually
Q       13.5.6. Compute aircraft critical leg ACL                                                                               -       -       -        a        -        b
Q       13.5.7. Prepare Manifest using GATES                                                                                    -       -       -        -        -        -
Q       13.5.8. Prepare Manifest manually                                                                                       -       -       -        b        -        b
        14. Ramp Operations TR:
Q       14.1. Setup cargo/mail/baggage for loading              *                                                              2b       b       -        b        -        -
Q       14.2. Determine shoring requirements                                                                                    a       a       -        b        -        b
Q       14.3. Transport loads to/from aircraft                  *                                                              b        b       -        b        -        -
Q       14.4. Perform ground spotter duties                     *                                                              2b       b       -        b        -        -
        14.5. Procedures for loading/offloading
              aircraft
Q       14.5.1. Prepare tie down equipment                                                                                      -       -       -        b        -        -
                checklist
Q       14.5.2. Select loading equipment                         *                                                              a       a       -        b        -        -
Q       14.5.3. Prepare aircraft for cargo loading               *                                                             2b       b       -        b        -        b
Q       14.5.4. Load/offload cargo/mail/baggage                  *                                                             2b       b       -        b        -        b
Q       14.6. Tie down cargo/mail/ baggage                       *                                                             2b       b       -        b        -        -
Q       14.7. Conduct Engine Running Off/Onload                                                                                 a       a       -        b        -        b
               (ERO)
Q       14.8. Perform concurrent servicing                                                                                      -       -       -        b        -        b
        15. Fleet Service
            TR: AMCI 24-101 V10; applicable 1C,
            13B4 and 36 series TO; appropriate -9
            aircraft TO; owner’s manual
-       15.1. Fundamentals                                                                                                     A        A       -        -        -        -
Q       15.2. Clean ovens, galleys, and ATGLs                                                                                  -        -       -        b        -        -
Q       15.3. Deliver meals                                                                                                    -        -       -        b        -        -
Q       15.4. Fill fresh water tanks and containers                                                                            -        -       -        b        -        -
Q       15.5. Flush/fill lavatories                                                                                            -        -       -        b        -        -
Q       15.6. Load/install supplies/equipment on                                                                               -        -       -        b        -        -
              aircraft
Q       15.7. Inventory expendable/non-expendable                                                                               -       -       -        b        -        -
              supplies and equipment
Q       15.8. Prepare fleet service documents                                                                                   -       -       -        b        -        -


                                                                       23
                                                       2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                            Training/Information Provided (See Note)
      1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A       B       C         A        B        C        D        E             A                B                C
                                                                                                                               3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                       3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)    (1)       (2)    (1)        (2)
QTP                                                                               Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC       Course CDC       Course    CDC

        16. Intransit Visibility TR: AFI 24-203,
            AMCI 24-101 V4, DTR Parts I-III
Q       16.1. Verify ITV                                                                                                         -       -       -        b        -        -
Q       16.2. Operate Deployable RFID                                                                                            -       -       -        -        -        -
              Interrogation Capability/Pallet Tag
              Interrogation Support Kit (PTISK)
        17. Readiness: TR: DTR Part III; AFI: 10-
          401; 10-403, 10-201, 24-235, 25-101, 32-
          1021/22/23/24 36-2101, 36-2818, 38-201,
          38-203, 38-204, 38-205, 90-201, 90-301;
          Joint Pub 4-0 and 5-0 AMCI: 24-101
        17.1. Planning Fundamentals
Q       17.1.1. Deliberate planning                                                                                              -       -        -        -       -        B
Q       17.1.2. Joint planning                                                                                                   -       -        -        -       -        B
        17.2. Transportation planning and systems
Q       17.2.1. Operation plans                                                                                                  -       -       -         -       -        B
Q       17.2.2. Concept plans                                                                                                    -       -       -         -       -        B
Q       17.2.3. JOPES/TPFDD/DCAPES                                                                                               -       -       -         -       -        B
Q       17.2.4. Status of resources and training                                                                                 -       -       -         -       -        B
                system (SORTS)
Q       17.2.5. Designed operational capabilities                                                                                -       -       -         -       -        B
                (DOC) statement
 -      17.2.6. AEF ART Tool                                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -        B
        17.3. Contingency operations
Q       17.3.1. IDP/In garrison expeditionary site                                                                               -       -       -         -       -        B
                plan (IGESP)
Q       17.3.2. Host unit deployment training                                                                                    -       -       -        -        -        -
Q       17.3.3. Unit Deployment Management                                                                                       -       -       -        -        -        B
Q       17.4. War Reserve Material (WRM)                                                                                         -       -       -        A        -        B
Q       17.5. Support Agreements                                                                                                 -       -       -        -        -        B
Q       17.6. Resource Management and                                                                                            -       -       -        -        -        -
              Accounting Systems
        17.7. Resource Management
Q       17.7.1. Unit Manpower document (UMD)                                                                                     -       -       -         -       -        B
Q       17.7.2. Unit Personnel Manpower Roster                                                                                   -       -       -         -       -        B
Q       17.7.3. Augmentation support                                                                                             -       -       -         -       -        B
Q       17.7.4. Manpower standard                                                                                                                -         -       -        -
Q       17.8. Facilities Management                                                                                              -       -       -         -       -        -
Q       17.9. Transportation Self-inspection Program                                                                             -       -       -         -       -        B
-       17.10. Security Management                                                                                               -       -       -         -       -        -
        18. Airdrop Fundamentals: TR: Applicable
            13C7 TO series; correct aircraft -9 TO
Q       18.1. Types of Parachutes                                                                                               A        A       -        A        -        -
Q       18.2. Types of Methods                                                                                                  A        A       -        A        -        -
Q       18.3. Types of Containers                                                                                               A        A       -        A        -        -
Q       18.4. Types of Platforms                                                                                                A        A       -        A        -        -
Q       18.5. Types of extraction systems                                                                                       A        A       -        A        -        -
        19. Contract Officer Representative:
            TR: AFI 64-102, AMCI 24-101 V9
Q       19.1. COR Fundamentals                                                                                                   -       -       -         -       -        A
        20. NVG Fundamentals:
            TR: AFJMAN 24-306 (I)
Q       20.1. NVG Fundamentals                                                                                                  A        A       -         -       -        -
        21. ATSEV-QA:
            TR: AFI 20-111/112; AMCI24-101 V20
Q       21.1. ATSEV-QA Fundamentals                                                                                             A        A       -         -       -        -



                                                                        24
