DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   CFETP 2A0X1P
Headquarters US Air Force                                                        Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                       30 April 2013




                              AFSC 2A0X1P

      AVIONICS SENSORS AND
  ELECTRONIC WARFARE SYSTEMS




        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
          AND TRAINING PLAN
         ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                     www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

            RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
This Page Intentionally Blank
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                      CFETP 2A0X1P
Headquarters US Air Force                                                                           Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                                          30 April 2013

                        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                    AVIONICS SENSORS AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE SYSTEMS
                                       AFSC 2A0X1P
                                                        Table of Contents
PART I                                                                                                         Page

Preface…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained……………………………………………………………………………………..2

Section A--General Information……………………………………………………………………………………. 5
    Purpose of the CFETP
    Use of the CFETP
    Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B--Career Progression and Information………………………………………………………………….. 5
    Specialty Description
    Skill/Career Progression
         Apprentice Level (3)
         Journeyman Level (5)
         Craftsman Level (7)
         Superintendent Level (9)
    Training Decisions
    Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities
    Career Field Path
    Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist

Section C--Skill Level Training Requirements……………………………………………………………………..11
    Purpose
    Specialty Qualification Requirements
    Training Sources
         Apprentice Level (3)
         Journeyman Level (5)
         Craftsman Level (7)
         Superintendent Level (9)

Section D--Resource Constraints…………………………………………………………………………………….12

Section E—Transitional Training Guide……………………………………………………………………………12

PART II

  Section A, Course Objective……………………………………………………………………………………….13

  Section B, Support Material……………………………………………………………………………………….13

  Section C, Training Course Index…………………………………………………………………………………13

 Section D, MAJCOM Unique Requirements……………………………………………………………………...14

 Section E, Specialty Training Standard (STS)……………………………………………………………………14

                                                                OPR: 365 TRS/TRR (Mr. James Eubanks)
Supersedes: CFETP 2A0X1P 1 Oct 2008                             Approved By: HQ USAF/A4LF; Number of printed pages: 54
                                                                                             CFETP 2A0X1P


                 AVIONICS SENSORS AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE SYSTEMS
                     CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                    AFSC 2A0X1P


PART I

PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and training
document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support resources, and
minimum core task requirements for 2A0X1P, Avionics Sensors and Electronic Warfare Systems
Specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and instill rigor in all aspects
of career field training. This CFETP supersedes 2A0X1P CFETP dated 1 October 2008. The official
CFETP can be found at the Air Force E-Publishing website: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/ . NOTE:
Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position qualification training.

2. CFETP Parts. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors will use both parts to plan, manage,
and control training.

2.1 Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains
how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C associates each level with specialty
qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other). Section D indicates resource constraints to
accomplishing this plan, such as funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies
transition training plans for the career field.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A provides an explanation of AETC course objectives and
trained proficiency levels. Section B identifies available support materials, such as Qualification Training
Package (QTP), which may be developed to support proficiency training. Section C identifies a training
course index that supervisors can use to determine if resources are available to support training. Included
here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section D identifies MAJCOM unique training
requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the associated qualification
needs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training
commensurate with the overall goals of this plan. Section E identifies the Specialty Training Standard
(STS) and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training, Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course/core task, and Career Development Course (CDC)
requirements.




                                                      1
                                                                                           CFETP 2A0X1P

ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training. Formal course, which provides individuals who are qualified in their Air Force
Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field. Training
is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular
job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualifications. The AFJQS tasks
are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Bridge Course. A formal or informal course, which allows the individual to expand his/her knowledge
in another area of expertise.

Career Development Course (CDC)--Self-study correspondence course to provide Airmen with
fundamental knowledge of their AFS.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive, multipurpose
document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines a logical
growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career field training identifiable,
eliminate duplication, and ensure this training is budget defensible.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual‟s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Certification Official – A person authorized by appropriate commander to determine an individual‟s
ability to perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. This is additional training that exceeds minimum upgrade requirements and has
an emphasis on present or future duty assignments.

Core Task. Tasks that the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as minimum
qualification requirements within an Air Force Specialty.

Course Training Standard (CTS). A formal course document that identifies in board terms the training
members will receive in a specific course.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal AETC training and On-The-Job (OJT) training
designed to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video or other
necessary means to supplement training.

Go/No Go Level. In OJT, the stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge and
experience to either be qualified to perform an identified task without assistance or cannot perform the
task without assistance.

Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a Training
Detachment (TD) or by a Mobile Training Team (MTT).

                                                         2
                                                                                          CFETP 2A0X1P


Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in the award of a 3-skill level AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly process for developing, validating,
and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge and skills essential
for successful job performance.

Maintenance Information System (MIS). Systems and applications that support and enable
maintenance business processes. Used to document maintenance actions. Provides maintenance
supervisors with products to evaluate organizational effectiveness and aid in decision-making processes at
all levels.

Maintenance Supply Liaison (MSL). Monitors overall maintenance and supply interface, resolves
supply support problems, and coordinates supply-related training needs.

Master Task Listing (MTL). Document maintained within the work-center that identifies all tasks
performed in a work-center. This includes core, critical position qualification and wartime tasks. This
document can be automated.

Master Training Plan. A comprehensive work-center training plan that may include MTLs, QTPs,
AFJQS, CFETP, task breakdowns, commercial publications and any other document that supports
training.

Mobile Training Team (MTT). Instructors, trainers, training aids and operational equipment that formal
schools send to bases or operating locations used to perform formal training.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey
of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to certify
personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Plan of Instruction (POI). An AETC course document used for course planning, organization, operation
and validation. It provides course objectives, level of training provided, planned times, sequence of
instruction, required resources and specifies how course objectives are measured.

Position Qualification Training. Training designed to qualify an airman in a specific position and is
accomplished after upgrade training.

Proficiency Training. Additional training either in residence or exportable advanced training courses, or
on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum
required for upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training
process. It is designed to provide the performance skill/knowledge training required to do the job.


                                                        3
                                                                                            CFETP 2A0X1P

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional course designed for use at the unit to qualify
or aid qualification in a duty position or program or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed, computer
based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or equipment
that preclude desired training from being accomplished.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force document that is published as an attachment to the
appropriate CFETP that describes an Air Force Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an airman may
be expected to perform or to know on the job. It serves as a contract between AETC and the functional
user to show which of the overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools, Career
Development Courses (CDC), and exportable courses.

Supplemental Training. Formal, standardized training within an AFS that is in addition to required
initial skills training and skill level upgrade training. It may support new/newly assigned equipment,
methods, and/or technology.

Task Certifier. See Certification Official

Training Business Area (TBA). Net-Centric, GCSS-AF IF Web-Based application providing Air Force
Warfighters with global, real-time visibility into the technical qualifications, certifications and training
status of logistics, communications and information professionals Air Force wide. TBA supports base,
wing and work center level training management activities by automating training management business
processes. The primary users of TBA will be any personnel directly involved in base level training
management and certification activities. TBA is being developed and maintained by 754th Electronic
Systems Group, Installation and Logistics, Maintenance Flight (754 ELSG/ILM) at Maxwell-Gunter
AFB.

Training Detachment (TD). An AETC detachment that provides maintenance oriented technical
training, at an operational location, on specific systems including their aerospace ground equipment or in
new equipment techniques and procedures. A TD qualifies personnel to maintain proficiency, increase
skill and knowledge, acquaint personnel with specific systems and keep personnel aware of changing
concepts and requirements.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-job,
field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and CDCs
required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum that is convened and chaired on a recurring
basis by the AF Career Field Manager (AFCFM), designed to review the appropriate CFETP and its
attachments. The purpose is to ensure currency, accuracy and completeness of content, to include specific
formal career ladder training requirements. Workshops are co-chaired by AETC Training Pipeline
Manager and include MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) Functional Managers, AETC training
personnel and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs).


                                                          4
                                                                                             CFETP 2A0X1P

PART I

SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for the AFCFM, MFMs, commanders,
training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective and
efficient career field training program. The plan outlines the training that individuals in this AFS should
receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade,
qualification, advanced and proficiency training. The CFETP also:

1.1. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training and the training
delivery method.

1.2. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career field
training process.

2. Use of the CFETP: This plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, Training Detachment
(TD), and exportable training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II
of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining the
resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade, and
proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courses can satisfy these
identified requirements. MAJCOM developed training to support this AFSC must be identified for
inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate other available training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The list of
courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.
3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority for the CFETP.
The AETC training manager for AFSC 2A0X1P will initiate an annual review of this document by AETC
and MFM to ensure currency and accuracy. The using MAJCOM representatives and AETC training
personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements. Using the list of courses
in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

SECTION B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

4. Specialty Descriptions.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Performs and manages avionics test station functions and activities.
Operates, inspects, maintains, programs, and calibrates computer and manually operated avionics test
equipment, support equipment (SE), and aircraft avionics systems components. Related DoD
Occupational Subgroup: 119800.



                                                          5
                                                                                           CFETP 2A0X1P

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities: Refer to the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD)
https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/app/home, and “Search the Knowledge Base” with “AFECD”.

4.2.1. Avionics Sensor and Electronic Warfare Systems Apprentice and Journeyman: Analyzes
performance and isolates malfunctions of avionics test equipment, SE, and aircraft components. Performs
operational tests on test equipment, SE, and aircraft components to determine condition, analyze
performance, and isolate malfunctions in the radar, sensors, communications, weapons control, electronic
warfare (EW), and flight control and engine control systems. Traces logic, schematic, test flow, and
wiring diagrams. Uses self-test and software functions, computer and manually operated avionics test
equipment, SE, and test measurement and diagnostic equipment to determine the scope of repair and
adjustment required. Inspects, maintains, programs, and calibrates avionics equipment, SE, and aircraft
components. Removes and replaces assembly components using hand tools, soldering devices, and
electronic instruments. Repairs EW systems and pods, sensor systems and components, wiring harnesses
and interconnecting cables. Services, replaces, and cleans filtration and cooling components, and
performs maintenance on test stations and avionics SE. Repairs amplifier and logic circuits; microwave
equipment; servomechanisms; radio frequency circuits; video displays; and power supply circuits. Loads
computer programs. Aligns, calibrates, and modifies avionics test equipment, SE, and aircraft
components

4.2.2. Avionics Sensor and Electronic Warfare Systems Craftsman: Manages integrated avionics
activities and complies with directives, policies, and procedures. Complies with maintenance standards.
Initiates deficiency reports, maintenance analysis documents, technical data changes, and equipment
records. Interprets, establishes, and complies with training, security, and safety standards. Ensures
compliance with directives governing handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and material.
Records information on data collection forms/automated systems. Directs and controls maintenance,
calibration, and inspection of integrated avionics test stations and aircraft components. Plans and
organizes integrated avionics activities. Plans and organizes integrated avionics equipment assembly,
calibration, repair, modification, and maintenance activities. Plans physical layout of facilities, and
ensures SE and spare parts availability.

4.2.3. Maintenance Superintendent: Manages and directs maintenance functions and activities.
Included are areas of avionics sensors, communications and navigation, guidance and control, airborne
warning and control radar, inertial and radar navigation, airborne command post communication systems,
avionics test stations, electronic warfare (EW) systems, and avionics support equipment. Related DoD
Occupational Subgroup: 110200.

5. Career Skill Progression. It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan,
develop, manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the
CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable training at appropriate points in their career.

5.1. Apprentice (3-level): Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a trainer to
enhance their knowledge and skills. They will utilize the Career Development Courses, Qualification
Training, and available exportable courses for continued advancement. Once task certified, a trainee may
perform the task unsupervised. Apprentices can be considered for appointment as unit trainers.




                                                         6
                                                                                          CFETP 2A0X1P

5.2. Journeyman (5-level). Individuals must complete formal 5-level OJT training. This training
involves completion of the 2A051P CDCs, as well as completion of all identified core task qualification
training and any other required duty position training. Upgrade requires qualification on only one pod.
Completion of Advanced Wiring Maintenance Course J4AMP30000 A48A PDS Code ZIZ per the
MAJCOM Mandatory Course List (MMCL) (ANG/AFRC exempt) is also required for 5-level upgrade.
Not applicable to personnel assigned to locations where the course is not yet available at the local Field
Training Detachment (FTD). Journeymen may be assigned job positions such as quality assurance and
various staff positions. Journeymen will be considered for appointment as unit trainers after completion
of the Air Force Training Course. Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for promotion testing. They
should also consider continuing their education toward a Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)
degree.

5.3. Craftsman (7-level): Individuals must complete formal 7-level OJT training. This training involves
completion of the 2A071P and the 2AX7X CDCs, as well as completion of all identified core task
qualification training and any other required duty position training. A 7-level can expect to fill various
supervisory and management positions such as shift leader, element chief, flight/section chief, and task
certifier. They can also be assigned to work in staff positions. Craftsmen should take courses to obtain
added knowledge on management of resources and personnel. Continued academic education through
CCAF and higher degree programs is encouraged. Shred identifiers and SEI codes are provided in the
ECD

5.4. Superintendent (9-level): A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief, production
supervisor, and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower,
resources, and personnel management should be pursued through continuing education. Additional higher
education and completion of courses outside their career AFSC are also recommended. The AFSC shred
is removed at the 9-skill level, at which point airframe qualifications are identified by Special Equipment
Identifier (SEI) codes. Shred identifiers and SEI codes are provided in the ECD

6. Training Decisions: The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass
the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Avionics Sensor and Electronic Warfare Systems
Career Field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training
requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable training to reduce duplication of training and
eliminate a disjointed approach to training. The following training decisions were made by MAJCOM
Functional Managers and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) at the career field Utilization and Training
Workshop held at Sheppard AFB, 5-13 April 2012.

6.1. Initial Skills: The working group was tasked with reviewing the entire Specialty Training Standard
of the 2A0X1P career field. Each STS line item was evaluated based on ability and method of training,
redundancy of documentation and applicability. OAR data was used to scrub requirements to determine
whether items were suited for formal training. LANTIRN and PAVE PENNY training was removed from
the 3-level awarding courses and numerous performance and alignment tests were added to the training.
The new 2A031P initial skills course is estimated to be 56 days in length.

6.2. Five-Level Upgrade Training: The 5-level CDCs will consist of four volumes. Completion of
Advanced Wire Maintenance Course J4AMP30000 A48A PDS Code ZIZ. Upgrade requirements also
include completion of core tasks and identified work center requirements for their assigned weapons
system.

                                                        7
                                                                                             CFETP 2A0X1P


6.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Training. Completion of the 2AX7X CDC is required. Airmen in upgrade
training for 2A0X1P 7-level will be task qualified on all core tasks and identified work center
requirements for their assigned weapons system.

7. Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities. Higher education and advanced
certification is a personal choice that is encouraged for the professional development of the entire Enlisted
Force. Listed below are some current opportunities:

7.1 Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Enrollment in CCAF occurs
upon completion of basic military training (BMT). CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate
in Applied Sciences Degree. In addition to its associate degree program, CCAF offers the following:

7.1.1. CCAF Instructor Certification. CCAF offers the CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program
for qualified instructors who teach CCAF collegiate-level credit awarding courses at a CCAF affiliated
school. The CIC is a professional credential that recognizes the instructor's extensive faculty
development training, education and qualification required to teach a CCAF course, and formally
acknowledges the instructor's practical teaching experience. Qualified officer, enlisted, civilian and other
service instructors are eligible for this certification.

7.1.2. Professional Manager Certification (PMC) Program. CCAF offers the PMC for qualified
senior Air Force enlisted personnel who have demonstrated an advanced level of professional
accomplishment. The purpose of the certification is to recognize the individual‟s outstanding education
and training required to lead and manage Air Force personnel and critical national defense assets. The
certification also formally acknowledges the individuals management qualifications and experience.
Qualified Air Force enlisted personnel are eligible for this certification. To learn more and enroll in the
program, visit CCAF‟s website at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.

7.1.3. FAA Airframe and Power plant (A&P) Certification. CCAF offers the Air Force A&P
Certification Program for active duty, guard and reserve aircraft maintenance technicians in specific
AFSCs. The program is designed to bridge gaps between Air Force education, training and experience
and FAA eligibility requirements per Title 14, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 65.77. The
program benefits the Air Force by broadening the skill sets and professional development of our
technicians, producing a more skilled and diverse aircraft maintenance professional. The program
directly supports the mission of CCAF in that FAA certification of our aircraft maintenance technicians
enhances combat readiness, contributes to recruiting and retention and supports career transition of highly
skilled technicians. To learn more and enroll in the program, visit CCAF‟s website at
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.

7.1.4. Other Certification Programs. CCAF is actively pursuing other licensure and certification
opportunities related to specific career fields. To learn more about other certification opportunities visit
CCAF‟s website at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp .


7.2. Degree Requirements: All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Prior to
completing an associate‟s degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following requirements must be
met:

                                                          8
                                                                                                                                     CFETP 2A0X1P

                                                                                                               Semester Hours
Technical Education ................................................................................................. 24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ........................................................ 6
Physical Education ..................................................................................................... 4
General Education .................................................................................................... 15
Program Elective ...................................................................................................... 15
     Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
     Studies; or General Education
Total ......................................................................................................................... 64

7.2.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical Core
subject courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours are applied from Technical
Core/Technical Elective courses.

7.2.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional military
education and/or civilian management courses.

7.2.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of Basic
Military Training.

7.2.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Courses must meet the definition of General
Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

7.2.5. Program Electives (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including natural
science courses meeting general education application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree-
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the CCAF
General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.3. AETC Instructor Requirements: Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is
encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become an AETC Instructor must possess as a minimum an
associate degree or should be actively pursuing an associate degree. Special Duty Assignment (SDA)
requires an AETC instructor candidate to have a CCAF degree or be within one year of completion (45
semester hours). A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                                                                    9
                                                                                                    CFETP 2A0X1P

8. Career Path: Table 8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A0X1 Air Force Specialty.

                                        Table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path
                                                                        Grade Requirements
  Education and Training Requirements                 Rank        Average    Earliest  High Year Of Tenure
                                                                  Sew-On     Sew-On          (HYT)
  Basic Military Training School
  Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)         Amn          6 months
                                                      A1C         16 months
  Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)
  - Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.
                                                      Amn          6 months
  - Minimum 9 months on-the-job training for
                                                      A1C         16 months    28 months            8 Years
    retrainees.
                                                      SrA           3 years
  - Complete all 5-level core tasks on one MDS.
  - Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
  Airman Leadership School (ALS)
  - Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service
    or be a SSgt Selectee.
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
    sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                       Trainer                                                   Certifier
  - Qualified and certified to perform the task to   - Be at least a 5-skill level SSgt; and qualified and certified
    be trained.                                        to perform the task being certified
  - Must attend formal OJT Trainer Course            - Attend formal OJT Trainer Course
                                                     - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs, duty
                                                       positions, units and/or work centers with specialized
                                                       training standardization and certification requirements.
  Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)
  - Minimum rank of SSgt.
  - Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.
  - Minimum 6 months on-the-job training for
     retrainees.                                      SSgt        5.1 years     3 years             10 Years
  - Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks on one
     mission design aircraft.
  - Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
  - Attend Craftsman course, if applicable.
  Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)              TSgt        11.1 years    5 years             20 Years
  - Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt
     sew-on (Active Duty Only).                       MSgt        16.8 years    8 years             24 Years
    USAF Senior NCO Academy
    (SNCOA) - Must be a MSgt, or SMSgt
    Selectee .                                       SMSgt        21 years     11 years             26 Years
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
     SMSGT sew-on.
  Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)
  - Minimum rank of SMSgt.                           CMSgt        24 years     14 years             30 Years




                                                             10
                                                                                           CFETP 2A0X1P

SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level
in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each
skill level. The specific tasks and knowledge training requirements are identified in Part II, Section E,
Specialty Training Standard (STS).

10. Specialty Qualification Requirements:

10.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: electrical theory and electronic fundamentals, including
solid-state, binary, digital, octal, and hexadecimal numbering systems; metrology principles; Boolean
algebra; computer logic, and programming principles and language; printed circuitry; microwave, radar,
and electronic warfare principles; microminiature solid state devices; operating principles of avionics
components supported by test stations; electrically actuated mechanical device theory; operating
principles of basic measuring and testing devices; interpreting schematic, logic, data flow, and wiring
diagrams; interpreting programming tables and technical publications; using, caring for, and applying
special, standard, and common hand tools; interpreting testing, measuring, and referencing devices;
concepts and application of applicable maintenance directives; Air Force supply procedures; and use and
disposal of hazardous waste and material

10.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school is desirable with courses in
physics, algebra, trigonometry, and computer principles.

10.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

10.3.1. 2A031P. Completion of the avionics fundamentals (if applicable) and the apprentice avionics
systems course for the applicable suffix.

10.3.2. 2A051P. Completion of applicable Field Training Detachment (FTD) course(s) listed on the CAF
Mandatory Course List (MCL) IAW AFI 36-2232, Maintenance Training. For award of AFSC
2A051K/M/P completion of Advanced Wire Maintenance Course J4AMP30000 A48A PDS Code ZIZ is
mandatory per MMCL and as it becomes available locally at FTD.

10.3.3. 2A071P. Completion of the 2AX7X CDC.

10.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

10.4.1. 2A051P. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A031P. Also, experience in functions such as
identifying performance and isolating malfunctions encountered with avionic components; using and
repairing avionic electrical, electronic, and mechanical equipment; or aligning and calibrating avionic test
stations and SE.

10.4.2. 2A071P. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A051P. Also, experience performing or
supervising functions such as installing, maintaining, or inspecting avionics systems.

10.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated.

                                                         11
                                                                                          CFETP 2A0X1P


10.5.1. For entry into this specialty: Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical
Examinations and Standards.

10.5.2. For award and retention of AFSCs 2A051P/71P, must maintain an Air Force Network License
according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals.

10.5.3. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment. For award and
retention of AFSCs 2A0X1/X, completion of a current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks
and Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.

NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level without a completed NACLC is authorized provided an interim Secret
security clearance has been granted according to AFI 31-501.

11. Training Sources:

11.1 Apprentice Level Training: The initial skills courses will provide the required knowledge and
qualification training. Training encompasses basic electronic principles, system theory and operation,
system components and component removal and installation. Additionally, introduction to maintenance
concepts, general flight line maintenance practices, use of technical publications, maintenance
documentation, and support equipment are provided.

11.2 Journeyman Level Training: The 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge training required.
Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the core tasks identified in the
STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current knowledge base, and provides more in-depth
knowledge to support OJT requirements.

11.3 Craftsman Level Training: Seven-level upgrade training will be conducted by certified trainers
using AF core tasks and unit/MAJCOM specific courses. The 7-level CDCs are written to provide
advanced, management and supervisory knowledge, and troubleshooting skills.

11.4. Superintendent Level Training (9-Level). This AFSC becomes shredless at the 9-skill level. Unit
OJT will be used for training. In addition to 7-level qualifications, an individual must possess advanced
skills and knowledge of concepts and principles in the management of aircraft maintenance. The 9-level
needs to be an effective leader; must be able to forecast, budget and manage funds and other resources;
and must be knowledgeable of federal and local environmental standards and ensure adherence to the
proper handling and disposal of hazardous materials.

SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

12. Purpose: This section of the CFETP identifies known resource constraints, which preclude optimum
and desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and
manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions required,
office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum,
reviewed and updated annually.


                                                        12
                                                                         CFETP 2A0X1P

13. Apprentice Level Training. No resource constraints identified.
14. Journeyman Level Training. No resource constraints identified.
15. Craftsman Level Training. No resource constraints identified.

SECTION E – TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE- There are no transitional requirements this
area is reserved.




                                                     13
                                                                                            CFETP 2A0X1P

PART II

Section A - Course Objective List

1. Introduction. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical school is
measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the student so he or she
knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each task. Each objective is
comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard that states what is expected of the student for each task.
The condition is the setting in which the training takes place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc). The
behavior is the observable portion of the objective (i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is the
level of performance that is measured to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained (i.e. “with no
more than two instructor assists”).

2. Objective Measurement. Each objective uses letter codes(s) to identify how it is measured. All
objectives using the PC code indicate a progress check is used to measure subject or task knowledge. W
indicates a comprehensive written test and is used to measure the subject or task knowledge at the end of
a block of instruction. PC/W indicates a subject or task knowledge progress check and a separate
measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a written test.

3. Objective Standard. The standard for written examinations is 70%. Standards for performance
objectives are indicated in the objective and are also indicated on the individual progress check checklist.
The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student‟s progress, on each task. Instructor
assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and students may be required to repeat all or
part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all
PCs prior to taking the written test.

4. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a particular
task or knowledge item. Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section A of this CFETP for an
explanation of the proficiency codes. Most task performance is taught to the „2b‟ proficiency level which
means the students can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task
(partially proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.

Section B - Support Material. There are currently no support material requirements. This area is
reserved

Section C - Training Course Index

5. Purpose. This index lists mandatory formal training including Air Force in-residence, field, ECI, and
exportable courses used to support training for this specialty. Refer to Education and Training Course
Announcements, for information on AETC formal courses listed below at
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ .

       365 TRS/TRR
       609 9th Ave Rm 135
       Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2338
       DSN 736-7901


                                                         14
                                                                                          CFETP 2A0X1P

6. Air Force In-Resident Courses.

 COURSE NO.                COURSE TITLE                      LOCATION          OPR
 J3ABR2A031P048A           Avionics Sensors and              Sheppard AFB      365 TRS/TRR
                           Electronic Warfare Systems                          DSN 736-7901
 J3AZR2A051P048A           AN/ALQ 184                        Sheppard AFB      365 TRS/TRR
                                                                               DSN 736-7901
 J3AZR2A051P148A           AN/ALQ 131                        Sheppard AFB      365 TRS/TRR
                                                                               DSN 736-7901


7. Extension Course Program, AU/A4L, Courses (CDCs) website:
 http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/.

COURSE NO.         COURSE TITLE                                               USER
CDC 2A051P         Avionic Sensor and Electronic Warfare Systems              365 TRS/TRR
                   Journeyman
CDC 2AX7X          Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman                            365 TRS/TRR


Section D - MAJCOM Unique Requirements.

The Combat Air Forces Mandatory Course Listing (CAF/MCL) identifies mandatory maintenance training
requirements for initial technical school graduates, retrainees, and personnel with no experience on
assigned mission design series (MDS) aircraft. It also ensures maintenance personnel receive training
commensurate to their current duty position. All CAF/MCL courses will be identified as a priority on the
AF Form 898. The CAF/MCL applies to ACC, AETC, USAFE and PACAF personnel/units. The
CAF/MCL does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
members and units. However, it does apply to Total Force integrated units (Active Duty personnel
assigned to Guard bases). The CAF/MCL is posted to the ACC/A4Q CoP at web site (under “Document
Management”): https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-TE-AC-42.

Section E – SPECIALITY TRAINING STANDARD

8. Implementation: The STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education and Training
Command for classes beginning January 2013. The STS is organized in attachments to this document for
“General” training requirements ( applicable to all MDS), and individual attachments for each MDS, Pods
and Avionics Fundamentals.

9. Purpose: As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS (Refer to applicable attachments):

9.1. Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks, knowledge,
and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level. All
task/knowledge taught in the initial skills courses will be taught in the wartime initial skills courses.

9.2. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks), by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements.
Certification on all shop/flightline core tasks applicable to at least one Mission Design Series (MDS)

                                                        15
                                                                                           CFETP 2A0X1P

aircraft assigned must be completed for skill level upgrade. When a base has multiple MDSs or blocks
assigned, trainees are only required to complete core task training on MDSs or blocks assigned to their
unit of assignment.

9.3. Column 3 provides certification for OJT. It is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge
training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document technician
qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification/completed date.

9.4. Column 4 (Proficiency Codes) show formal training and correspondence course requirements and
shows the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. When two codes are
used in columns 4A and 4B (e.g. 2b/b), the first code is the established requirement for resident training
on the task/knowledge, and the second code indicates the level of training provided in the course due to
equipment shortages or other resource constraints. See CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the
unit-training manager for current CDC listing.

10. Qualitative Requirements: Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the
level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.

11. Job Qualification Standard: The STS becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job
training when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201.
For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. "Go" means the individual
can perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct
procedures. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:

11.1 Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201. Automated
records, utilizing MIS reflecting this STS is highly encouraged

11.1.1. Transcribing from Old CFETP to New CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs are
replaced by this CFETP; therefore, transcribing of all training records to this CFETP STS is mandatory.
Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current qualifications.
Document and certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.

12. Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT). The STS serves as a guide for development of promotion tests
used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). SKTs are developed at the USAF
Occupational Measurement Squadron, by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career
fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team
members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references
listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program.
WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.

13. Recommendations: Report, through the Graduate Assessment Survey, unsatisfactory performance of
individual course graduates to the AETC Training Manager at 365 TRS/TRR, 609 9th Avenue Rm. 135,
Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2335, DSN 736-7901. Please reference specific STS paragraphs.




                                                        16
                                                                                   CFETP 2A0X1P




BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                  JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lt General, USAF
                                          DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support



Attachments: 9
1. Proficiency Code Key (Mandatory)
2. General Training Requirements (Mandatory)
3. Sensor System Maintenance
4. LANTIRN
5. AN/ALQ 131 POD
6. AN/ALQ 184 POD
7. AN/ALQ 188A POD
8. Avionics Fundamentals (Mandatory)
9. 2AX7X CDC Requirements (Mandatory)




                                                   17
                                                          Proficiency Code Key
                                                                                                                                  CFETP 2A0X1P
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee:
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                              Initials (Written)                   SSAN (last 4 only)

                                          Printed Name Of Training/Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                       N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

                                                          QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                               Proficiency Code Key
                                  Scale        Definition: The individual
                                  Value
                                    1          IS EXTREMELY LIMITED (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do
                                               most of the task.)
           Task                     2          IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT (Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts.)
       Performance                  3          IS COMPETENT (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)
          Levels                    4          IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show
                                               others how to do the task.)
                                    a          KNOWS NOMENCLATURE (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. )
         *Task                      b          KNOWS PROCEDURES (Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. )
       Knowledge                    c          KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES (Can identify why and when the task must be done and why
                                               each step is needed.)
          Levels                    d          KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.)
                                    A          KNOWS FACTS (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)
        **Subject                   B          KNOWS PRINCIPLES (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the
                                               subject.)
       Knowledge                    C          KNOWS ANALYSIS (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.)
        Levels                      D          KNOWS EVALUATION (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject.)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)
**A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a subject
common to several tasks.
- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.
/ This mark is used in course columns to show that training is required but not given/reduced due to limitations in resources. (3c/b, 2/b/b, 3c/-, etc.)

X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency or knowledge code are trained during wartime.
                                                                                                                       Attachment 1




                                                                             17
                                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                      A     B          A             B          C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                       Level    Level         Level
                                                      5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                    Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

2 ATTACHMENT 2, GENERAL
TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
2.1 CAREER LADDER PROGRESSION
2.1.1 Progression in career ladder                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
2.1.2 Duties of AFSC                                                                                                                     -       -        -           -
2.2 SECURITY TR: DODR 5200-1;
AFSSI
2.2.1 Communications Security
(COMSEC)
2.2.1.1 Security violations
                                                                                                                                        A        B        -           -
prevention
2.2.1.2 Critical Information Listing                                                                                                     -       -        -           -
2.2.1.3 Identify security
                                                                                                                                        A        B        -           -
precautions
2.2.2 Physical Security
2.2.2.1 Classified equipment                                                                                                            A        B        -           -
2.2.2.2 Classified information                                                                                                          A        B        -           -
2.2.2.3 Command, Control,
Communications, and Computer                                                                                                             -       -        -           -
(C4) Systems Security
2.2.2.4 Use system security
classification guides Applicable                                                                                                         -       A        -           -
weapons security guides
2.2.2.5 Operational security
(OPSEC) vulnerabilities of AFSC AFI                                                                                                     A        -        -           -
10-1101
2.2.2.6 Destruction of Classified
                                                                                                                                         -       A        -           -
Information
2.3 SUPERVISION
2.2.2.3.1 Perform Initial Evaluation
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
36-2108; AFI 36-2201V3
2.2.2.3.2 Orient New Personnel
AFMAN 36-2108; AFIs 36-2201, 36-                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
2103
2.4 TRAINING
2.4.1 Evaluate Personnel to
Determine Need for Training AFI                                                                                                          -       -        -           -
36-2201V3


                                                                                  18
                                                                                                                                        Attachment 2
                                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                      A     B          A             B          C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                       Level    Level         Level
                                                      5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                    Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

2.4.2 Maintain Training Records
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
AFI 36-2201V3
2.4.3 Utilize Automated Training
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -
Records
2.5 AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL
SAFETY AND HEALTH (AFOSH)
PROGRAM

2.5.1 Hazards and AFOSH STDS of
AFSC 2A0X1P AFIND 17, AFIs 91-
301, 91-302, AFOSH STDs 48-8, 48-                                                                                                       A        B        -           -
9, 48-139, 91-46, 91-66, 91-68, 91-
501, 161-2, 161-17, 161-20, 161-21
2.5.2 Work Areas Cleanliness and
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Safety AFOSH STD 91-66
2.5.3 Safety practices when
working with or in the vicinity of
2.5.3.1 Electrical power / High
Voltage AFOSH STD 91-66; TOs 31-                                                                                                        A        B        -           -
1-141-1, 33-1-32; 00-25-232
2.5.3.2 Compressed Gases AFOSH
STD 91-501; TOs 00- 25-234, 42B5-                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
1-2, 42B7-3-1-1
2.5.3.3 Hand and Power Tools TOs
00-25-234, 32-1-101, 32-1-151, 32-                                                                                                      A        B        -           -
1-2
2.5.3.4 Radioactive Materials
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
AFOSH STD 48-9, TO 31-1-141-9
2.5.3.5 High Intensity Sound
                                                                                                                                         -       B        -           -
AFOSH STD 48-19
2.5.3.6 RF Radiation                                                                                                                    A        B        -           -
2.5.3.7 Lifting Devices AFOSH STD
                                                                                                                                        A        B        -           -
91-46
2.5.3.8 Lasers Safety AFOSH STD
48-139; ANSI Z136.1-XXXX, TOs 31-                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
1-141-1, 31-1-141-3
2.5.3.9 Report RF Overexposure
                                                                                                                                         -       A        -           -



                                                                                  19
                                                                                                                                        Attachment 2
                                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                      A     B          A             B          C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                       Level    Level         Level
                                                      5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                    Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

2.6 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS &
WASTE
2.6.1 Review MSDS                                                                                                                       A        -        -           -
2.6.2 Identification                                                                                                                    A        -        -           -
2.6.3 Handling                                                                                                                          A        -        -           -
2.6.4 Storage and Labeling                                                                                                              A        -        -           -
2.6.5 Disposal                                                                                                                          A        -        -           -
2.6.6 Waste Minimization                                                                                                                A        -        -           -
2.7 TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS
2.7.1 Standard Publications                                                                                                              -       A        -           -
2.7.2 USAF TO System
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Management
2.7.3 USAF TO System Function
                                                                                                                                        A        A        -           -
and Application
2.7.4 Computer Program
Identification Number (CPIN)
System/Automated Computer
Identification Number (ACPIN)                                                                                                           A        A        -           -
System TOs 00-5-1, 00-5-16, 00-5-
17, 00-5-18, AFI-10-703 and
applicable data
2.7.5 Time Compliance TO                                                                                                                 -       A        -           -
2.7.6 TO Deficiency Reporting
                                                                                                                                         -       A        -           -
Procedures TO 00-5-1
2.7.7 Use TOs to Perform
2.7.7.1 Maintenance                                  *                                                                                  2b       B        -           -
2.7.7.2 Part Number Research                         *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
2.7.8 Schematics and Wiring/Block
Diagrams
2.7.8.1 Use Schematics
Wiring/Block Diagrams and Logic                      *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
trees
2.8 AIR FORCE SUPPLY DISCIPLINE
2.8.1 Supply Discipline AFMAN
                                                                                                                                        A        B        -           -
23-110, Vol 2, Pt 13
2.8.2 Use Supply Cross References
USAF S-2A-1, Use Federal Logistics                                                                                                      2b       -        -           -
Data (FEDLOG), D043

                                                                                  20
                                                                                                                                        Attachment 2
                                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                      A     B          A             B          C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                       Level    Level         Level
                                                      5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                    Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC




2.9 SUPPLY PROCEDURES
2.9.1 Asset Requisition/Turn-In
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 13, Chapt-                                                                                                       -       B        -           -
3, Attach -3A-3
2.9.2 AF Form 2005                                                                                                                      2b       -        -           -
2.9.3 Complete Condition Tags                        *                                                                                  2b                -
2.9.4 Product Improvement
2.9.4.1 Deficiency Reports TO 00-
                                                                                                                                         -       B        -           -
35D-54, AFSCM 21-578, Vol 2
2.1 MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
AND INSPECTION
2.10.1 Duties and Responsibilities
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
of Shop Personnel
2.10.2 Levels of Maintenance AFI
                                                                                                                                        A        B        -           -
21-101
2.10.3 Basic Functions and
responsibilities within the
Maintenance Organization AFIs 21-                                                                                                       A        A        -           -
101, 38-101

2.10.4 Logistics and Resource
Management
2.10.4.1 Introduction to
Maintenance Resource                                                                                                                    A        -        -           -
Management
2.10.4.2 Logistics Management
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
AFIs 21-101
2.10.4.3 Resource Management
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
AFI 65-601, Vol 1
2.10.5 Status Reports AFI 21-103                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
2.10.6 Maintenance Incident
Investigation and Prevention AFIs                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
91-202, 91-204, 91 -206
2.10.7 Mobility AFH 10-416; AFIs
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
10-215, 10-403; AFMAN 10-100
2.10.8 Maintenance, Inspection
Systems and Forms

                                                                                  21
                                                                                                                                        Attachment 2
                                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                      A     B          A             B          C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                       Level    Level         Level
                                                      5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                    Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

2.10.8.1 Inspections systems
                                                                                                                                        A        A        -           -
2.10.8.2 Use maintenance forms
2.10.8.2.1 AFTO Form 350                             *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
2.10.8.2.2 AFTO Form 349                                                                                                                 -       -        -           -
2.10.8.2.3 AFTO Form 244                             *                                                                                  2b       A        -           -
2.10.8.2.4 AFTO Form 95                                                                                                                  -       -        -           -
2.10.8.3 Calibration Forms                                                                                                              1a       A        -           -
2.10.8.4 Document Automated
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Forms
2.11 JOB DATA DOCUMENTATION
(JDD) (IMDS)
2.11.1 Historical Records                                                                                                                -       -        -           -
2.11.2 Status Reports                                                                                                                    -       -        -           -
2.11.3 Configuration Management
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
AFI 21-101
2.12 MAINTENANCE DATA
DOCUMENTATION (MDD)
2.12.1 Fundamentals and
                                                                                                                                        A        B        -           -
Application of MDD
2.12.2 Reliability, Availability,
Maintainability, for Pods, (RAMPOD)
2.12.2.1 Maintenance Transactions                    *                                                                                  A        -        -           -
2.12.2.2 Maintenance Inquiries                       *                                                                                  A        -        -           -
2.13 Integrated Maintenance Data
System (IMDS)
2.13.1 IMDS Principles                                                                                                                  A        B        -           -
2.13.2 Maintenance Transactions                      *                                                                                  2b       B        -           -
2.13.3 Maintenance Inquiries                         *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
2.13.4 Supply Transactions                                                                                                              2b       B        -           -
2.13.5 Management/
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Supervision/Training Transactions
2.13.6 Complete Integrated MX
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Data Systems (IMDS) CBT
2.14 METROLOGY PRINCIPLES
2.14.1 Use Calibration Correction
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Charts


                                                                                  22
                                                                                                                                        Attachment 2
                                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                      A     B          A             B          C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                       Level    Level         Level
                                                      5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                    Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC



2.15 GENERAL MAINTENANCE
PRACTICES
2.15.1 Corrosion Control TOs 1-1-
                                                                                                                                        A        -        -           -
689,1-1-691, 00-20-1, 00-25-234
2.15.2 Clean Equipment                                                                                                                   -       -        -           -
2.15.3 Lubricate Equipment                                                                                                               -       -        -           -
2.15.4 Inspect Equipment                                                                                                                 -       -        -           -
2.15.5 Pack/Unpack LRUs                                                                                                                  -       -        -           -
2.15.6 Perform Safety Wiring TO
                                                                                                                                        2b       -        -           -
00-25-234
2.15.7 Clean Optical Surfaces IAW
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
System Level TO
2.15.8 Cable Repair
2.15.8.1 Perform Cable Lacing                                                                                                           2b       -        -           -
2.15.8.2 Perform Cable Splicing                                                                                                          -       -        -
2.15.8.3 Perform Video Splicing                                                                                                          -       -        -           -
2.15.8.4 Perform Connector
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Potting
2.15.8.5 Coaxial cable
2.15.8.5.1 Repair                                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
2.15.8.5.2 Fabricate                                                                                                                     -       -        -           -
2.15.8.6 Multipin
connectors/cables
2.15.8.6.1 Repair                                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
2.15.8.6.2 Fabricate                                                                                                                     -       -        -           -
2.15.9 TOOLS
2.15.9.1 Inventory and Inspect
Composite Tool Kits (CTKs) AFI 21-                   *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
101
2.15.9.2 Tool Accountability AFI
                                                                                                                                         -       A        -           -
21-101
2.15.9.3 Use Common Hand Tools
                                                     *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
AFOSHSTD 91-501, TO 32-1-101
2.15.9.4 Use Torque wrenches
TO32B14-3-1-101, Applicable                          *                                                                                  2b       B        -           -
Systems TOs


                                                                                  23
                                                                                                                                        Attachment 2
                                                   GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                      A     B          A             B          C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                       Level    Level         Level
                                                      5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                    Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC



2.15.10 Electrostatic Sensitive
Device (ESD)
2.15.10.1 Electrostatic Sensitive
                                                                                                                                         -       B        -           -
Device (ESD) Principles
2.15.10.2 Perform Electrostatic
                                                                                                                                        2b       -        -           -
Sensitive Device (ESD) Procedures
2.15.11 General Pod Support
Equipment
2.15.11.1 Perform Pod Cradle prior
to use / 180-day inspection 35D-1-                   *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
301
2.15.11.2 Perform Pod Dolly prior
to use / 90-day inspection 35D-1-                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
301
2.15.11.3 Perform Pod Shipping
Container prior to use / 360-day                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
inspection 35E20-4-26-1
2.15.12 C-9492B CONTROL
INDICATOR
2.15.12.1 Perform bench check of
C-9492B Control Indicator 12P3-                                                                                                          -       -        -           -
2ALQ-122
2.15.12.2 Perform placard set-
up/changes for AN/ALQ-131,
AN/ALQ-184 and AN/ALQ-188A
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
pods 12P3-2ALQ-122, 12P3-
2ALQ188-12, and AN/ALQ-188A(V)
CMS User s Guide
2.16 DIRECT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
2.16.1 Test Equipment Care and
Handling
2.16.1.1 Prepare for Shipment                                                                                                            -       -        -           -
2.16.1.2 Prepare for Storage                                                                                                             -       -        -           -
2.16.1.3 Prepare for Climate
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Conditions
2.17 DATA TRANSFER EQUIPMENT
2.17.1 Data transfer principles                                                                                                         A        B        -           -
2.17.2 Operate data transfer                                                                                                            2b       -        -           -

                                                                                  24
                                                                                                                                        Attachment 2
                                                  GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                   2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                   Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                     A     B          A             B          C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                       Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level    Level         Level
                                                     5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                   Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

equipment
2.18 ELECTRONIC WARFARE
COMBAT FUNDAMENTALS
2.18.1 Electronic combat                                                                                                                A       B        -           -
2.18.2 Directed Radio Frequency
                                                                                                                                        B       B        -           -
(RF) radiation
2.18.3 Electronic Warfare
                                                                                                                                        B       B        -           -
categories
2.18.4 Integrated Air defense
                                                                                                                                        A       B        -           -
systems
2.18.5 Component types                                                                                                                  -       -        -           -
2.19 RF FUNDAMENTALS
2.19.1 Principles                                                                                                                      A        B        -           -
2.19.2 Component Types                                                                                                                 A        B        -           -
2.19.3 Isolate/Identify RF
                                                                                                                                       A        B        -           -
Malfunctions
2.20 USE TEST EQUIPMENT
2.20.1 Universal counter                                                                                                                -       A        -           -
2.20.2 Power meter                                                                                                                     2b       A        -           -
2.20.3 Frequency counter                                                                                                               2b       A        -           -
2.20.4 Scalar network analyzer                                                                                                         2b       A        -           -
2.20.5 Pulse generator                                                                                                                 2b       A        -           -
2.20.6 Sweep oscillator                                                                                                                2b       A        -           -
2.20.7 Radio Frequency radiation
                                                                                                                                       2b       -        -           -
monitor
2.20.8 Oscilloscope                                                                                                                    2b       A        -           -
2.20.9 Spectrum analyzer                                                                                                               2b       A        -           -
2.21 GROUND HANDLING
2.21.1 Pods                                                                                                                            A        A        -           -
2.21.2 Test Equipment                                                                                                                  A        -        -           -
2.21.3 Lifting Devices                                                                                                                 A        B        -           -
2.21.4 Inspect                                                                                                                         A        -        -           -
2.21.5 Operate                                                                                                                         A        -        -           -




                                                                                 25
                                                                                                                                       Attachment 2
                                   SENSOR SYSTEM MAINTENANCE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                  2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                    A     B          A             B          C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                      Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                     Level    Level         Level
                                                    5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                  Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

3 ATTACHMENT 3, SENSOR
SYSTEMS MAINTENANCE TRAINING
REQUIREMENTS
3.1 SENSOR SYSTEMS
MAINTENANCE PRINCIPLES
3.1.1 Infrared (IR) Systems TO
                                                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
System TOs
3.1.2 Laser Systems System TOs                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
3.1.3 Radar / Terrain Following
                                                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
Systems TO System TOs
3.1.4 Environmental Control
                                                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
Systems (ECS)
3.1.5 Servo Systems System TOs                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
3.1.6 Optics System TOs                                                                                                                -       -        -           -
3.1.7 RF Components
3.1.7.1 Principles                                                                                                                     -       -        -           -
3.1.7.2 Isolate/Identify RF
                                                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
Malfunctions
3.1.8 Data Bus Communication
3.1.8.1 IEEE Bus Communication
                                                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
Standard IEEE-488
3.1.8.2 488/1553 Data Bus Theory                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
3.2 DIGITAL TECHNIQUES
3.2.1 Applications/Calculations                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
3.2.2 Components                                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
3.2.3 RAMPOD Familiarization AFI
                                                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
21-103
3.2.4 VXI Theory                                                                                                                       -       -        -           -




                                                                                26
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 3
                                                   LANTIRN TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                      A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                       Level    Level         Level
                                                      5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                    Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

4 ATTACHMENT 4, LANTIRN
TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
4.1 LOW ALTITUDE NAVIGATION
AND TARGETING INFRARED FOR
NIGHT (LANTIRN) SYSTEM
4.1.1 Navigation Set, AAQ-13
4.1.1.1 Description                                                                                                                      -       -        -           -
4.1.1.2 Theory of Operation
4.1.1.2.1 IR Subsystem                                                                                                                   -       -        -           -
4.1.1.2.2 TFR Subsystem                                                                                                                  -       -        -           -
4.1.1.2.3 Environmental Control
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Subsystem
4.1.1.3 Run Functional Test                                                                                                              -       -        -           -
4.1.1.4 Remove and Install
4.1.1.4.1 Radar Interface Unit (RIU)                                                                                                     -       -        -           -
4.1.1.4.2 Antenna Gimbal (A/G)                                                                                                           -       -        -           -
4.1.1.4.3 Transmitter (XMTR)                                                                                                             -       -        -           -
4.1.1.4.4 Receiver/Exciter (R/E)                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
4.1.1.4.5 Radar Power Supply (RPS)                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
4.1.1.4.6 Radar Pressurizing Unit
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(RPU)
4.1.1.4.7 Navigation Set Computer
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(NSC)
4.1.1.4.8 Infrared Receiver (IR)                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
4.1.1.4.9 Navigation Set Power
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Supply (NSPS)
4.1.1.4.10 Environmental Control
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Unit (ECU)
4.1.1.4.11 Electro-Magnetic
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Interference (EMI) Filter
4.1.1.5 Service
4.1.1.5.1 Coolant Loop                                                                                                                   -       -        -           -
4.1.1.5.2 Radar Pressurization Unit
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(RPU)
4.1.1.5.3 Infrared Receiver (IR)                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
4.1.1.6 Radar Interface Unit (RIU)
4.1.1.6.1 Remove and Install SRUs                                                                                                        -       -        -           -

                                                                                  27
                                                                                                                                       Attachment 4
                                                  LANTIRN TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                   2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                   Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                     A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                       Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level    Level         Level
                                                     5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                   Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

4.1.1.7 Antenna Gimbal (A/G)
4.1.1.7.1 Remove and Install SRUs                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
4.1.1.8 Transmitter (XMTR)
4.1.1.8.1 Remove and Install SRUs                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
4.1.1.9 Receiver/Exciter (R/E)
4.1.1.9.1 Remove and Install SRUs                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
4.1.1.10 Radar Power Supply (RPS)
4.1.1.10.1 Remove and Install SRUs                                                                                                      -       -        -           -
4.1.1.11 Radar Pressurization Unit
(RPU)
4.1.1.11.1 Remove and Install
                                                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
Gauge
4.1.1.12 Navigation Set Computer
(NSC)
4.1.1.12.1 Remove and Install SRUs                                                                                                      -       -        -           -
4.1.1.12.2 Load Operational Flight
                                                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
Program (OFP)
4.1.1.13 Infrared Receiver (IR)
4.1.1.13.1 Remove and Install SRUs                                                                                                      -       -        -           -
4.1.1.14 Navigation Set Power
Supply
4.1.1.14.1 Remove and Install SRUs                                                                                                      -       -        -           -
4.1.1.15 Environmental Control
Unit (ECU)
4.1.1.15.1 Remove and Install SRUs                                                                                                      -       -        -           -
4.1.1.15.2 Repair                                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
4.1.1.15.3 Service coolant                                                                                                              -       -        -           -
4.1.2 Targeting Set, AAQ-14
4.1.2.1 Description                                                                                                                     -       -        -           -
4.1.2.2 Theory of Operation
4.1.2.2.1 Servo Subsystem                                                                                                               -       -        -           -
4.1.2.2.2 Environmental Control
                                                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
Subsystem
4.1.2.2.3 Laser Subsystem                                                                                                               -       -        -           -
4.1.2.2.4 FLIR Subsystem                                                                                                                -       -        -           -
4.1.2.3 Run Functional Test                                                                                                             -       -        -           -


                                                                                 28
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 4
                                                   LANTIRN TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                      A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                       Level    Level         Level
                                                      5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                    Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

4.1.2.4 Remove and Install
4.1.2.4.1 Nose Equipment Support
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Assembly (NESA)
4.1.2.4.2 Roll Section Assembly                                                                                                          -       -        -           -
4.1.2.4.3 Targeting Set Computer
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(TSC)
4.1.2.4.4 Central Electronics Unit
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(CEU)
4.1.2.4.5 Power Supply (TSPS)                                                                                                            -       -        -           -
4.1.2.4.6 Environmental Control
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Unit (ECU)
4.1.2.5 Perform Alignments
4.1.2.5.1 Function of Alignments                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
4.1.2.5.2 Drift Bias Adjustment
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(AL1)
4.1.2.5.3 Focus Adjustment (AL2)                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
4.1.2.5.4 Deroll Symbology Bias
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(AL3)
4.1.2.5.5 Pitch/Yaw-to-Roll
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Resolver Bias (AL4)
4.1.2.5.6 Roll/Deroll-to-Mount Bias
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(AL5)
4.1.2.5.7 AZ/EL-to-Mount PT
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
System Bias (AL6)
4.1.2.5.8 Gain Balance Adjustment
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(AL7)
4.1.2.5.9 Dead Channel Strap (AL9)                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
4.1.2.5.10 FLIR LOS-to-Pitch Axis
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(AL10)
4.1.2.5.11 Detector Temperature
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Adjust (AL11)
4.1.2.5.12 Detector Position Adjust
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(AL12)
4.1.2.5.13 TAF to Deroll (AL13)                                                                                                          -       -        -           -
4.1.2.5.14 Shroud Actuator
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Adjustment (AL14)
4.1.2.5.15 Laser to FLIR (AL15)
4.1.2.5.15.1 First Fold Prism Adjust                                                                                                     -       -        -           -

                                                                                  29
                                                                                                                                       Attachment 4
                                                   LANTIRN TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                      A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                       Level    Level         Level
                                                      5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                    Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

4.1.2.5.15.2 Four Times Expander
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Adjust
4.1.2.5.16 Stow Servos (AL16)                                                                                                            -       -        -           -
4.1.2.5.17 Roll Brake Release
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(AL17)
4.1.2.5.18 Nose Processor Bias
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Transfer (AL18)
4.1.2.5.19 Fetch Pod Bias Data
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(AL19)
4.1.2.5.20 TAF FLIR Test (AL20)                                                                                                          -       -        -           -
4.1.2.5.21 Pod Mode Control
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(AL21)
4.1.2.5.22 TAF Centration                                                                                                                -       -        -           -
4.1.2.5.23 Horizontal Slider
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Adjustment
4.1.2.5.24 Vertical Slider
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Adjustment
4.1.2.6 Service
4.1.2.6.1 Coolant Loop                                                                                                                   -       -        -           -
4.1.2.6.2 Desiccant (NESA)                                                                                                               -       -        -           -
4.1.2.7 Nose Equipment Support
Assembly (NESA)
4.1.2.7.1 Remove and Install SRUs
4.1.2.7.1.1 Laser Transmitter
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Receiver
4.1.2.7.1.2 Laser Transmitter
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Controller
4.1.2.7.1.3 Coolant Loop                                                                                                                 -       -        -           -
4.1.2.7.1.4 Optical Relay Assembly                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
4.1.2.7.1.5 CCAs/ECAs                                                                                                                    -       -        -           -
4.1.2.7.1.6 Repair                                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
4.1.2.8 Roll Section Assembly
4.1.2.8.1 Remove and Install SRUs
4.1.2.8.1.1 Target Acquisition FLIR
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(TAF)
4.1.2.8.1.2 Cooler/Detector                                                                                                              -       -        -           -
4.1.2.8.1.3 CCAs                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -


                                                                                  30
                                                                                                                                       Attachment 4
                                                   LANTIRN TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                      A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                       Level    Level         Level
                                                      5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                    Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

4.1.2.8.1.4 Matched Scanner Set                                                                                                          -       -        -           -
4.1.2.8.1.5 Slip Ring Assembly                                                                                                           -       -        -           -
4.1.2.9 Targeting Set Computer
(TSC)
4.1.2.9.1 Load Operational Flight
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Program (OFP)
4.1.2.9.2 Remove and Install SRUs                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
4.1.2.10 Central Electronics Unit
(CEU)
4.1.2.10.1 Remove and Install SRUs                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
4.1.2.11 Power Supply (TSPS)
4.1.2.11.1 High Voltage Power
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Supply Functional Test
4.1.2.11.2 Remove and Install SRUs                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
4.1.2.11.3 Repair                                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
4.1.2.12 Environmental Control
Unit (ECU
4.1.2.12.1 Remove and Install SRUs                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
4.1.2.12.2 Repair                                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
4.1.2.12.3 Service Coolant                                                                                                               -       -        -           -
4.1.3 Use, Maintain, Test, Inspect
and Service LANTIRN Equipment
4.1.3.1 LANTIRN Mobility Shelter
Set (LMSS)
4.1.3.1.1 Description                                                                                                                    -       -        -           -
4.1.3.1.2 Prepare for Shipment
(Decomplex)
4.1.3.1.2.1 Electro-Optical Test Set
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(EOTS)
4.1.3.1.2.2 Hoist/Monorail                                                                                                               -       -        -           -
4.1.3.1.2.3 Peripheral Equipment
4.1.3.1.2.3.1 Cooling and Servicing
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Unit (CSU) NESLAR
4.1.3.1.2.3.2 Cooling and Servicing
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Unit (CSU) Ellis and WATTS
4.1.3.1.2.3.3 400-Hz Converter                                                                                                           -       -        -           -
4.1.3.1.2.3.4 LANTIRN AEF Tester
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(LAT/EOTS)
                                                                                  31
                                                                                                                                       Attachment 4
                                                   LANTIRN TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                      A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                       Level    Level         Level
                                                      5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                    Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

4.1.3.1.2.3.5 Air Conditioner                                                                                                            -       -        -           -
4.1.3.1.2.3.6 Caster Jacks                                                                                                               -       -        -           -
4.1.3.1.2.3.7 Shelter A and B                                                                                                            -       -        -           -
4.1.3.1.2.3.8 A-Frame Gantry                                                                                                             -       -        -           -
4.1.3.1.3 Prepare for Use
(Complex)
4.1.3.1.3.1 Electro-Optical Test Set
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(EOTS)
4.1.3.1.3.2 Hoist/Monorail
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Operation
4.1.3.1.3.3 Peripheral Equipment
4.1.3.1.3.3.1 Cooling and Servicing
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Unit (CSU) NESLAB
4.1.3.1.3.3.2 Cooling and Servicing
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Unit (CSU) Ellis and Watts
4.1.3.1.3.3.3 LANTIRN AEF Tester
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
(LAT/EOTS)
4.1.3.1.3.3.4 400-Hz Converter                                                                                                           -       -        -           -
4.1.3.1.3.3.5 Air Conditioner                                                                                                            -       -        -           -
4.1.3.1.3.3.6 Caster Jacks                                                                                                               -       -        -           -
4.1.3.1.3.3.7 Shelter A and B                                                                                                            -       -        -           -
4.1.3.1.3.3.8 A-Frame Gantry                                                                                                             -       -        -           -
4.1.3.2 LANTIRN AEF Tester (LAT)
4.1.3.2.1 Description                                                                                                                    -       -        -           -
4.1.3.2.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -       -        -           -
4.1.3.2.3 LAT Startup                                                                                                                    -       -        -           -
4.1.3.2.4 LAT Shutdown                                                                                                                   -       -        -           -
4.1.3.2.5 Operational Checkout
4.1.3.2.5.1 Perform Instrument Self
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Tests (IST)
4.1.3.2.5.2 Perform Station Self
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Test
4.1.3.2.5.3 Load Station Software                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
4.1.3.2.5.4 Perform LAT
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Verification Using PATEC
4.1.3.2.6 Perform Periodic
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Inspection

                                                                                  32
                                                                                                                                       Attachment 4
                                                   LANTIRN TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                      A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                       Level    Level         Level
                                                      5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                    Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

4.1.3.3 Electro-Optical Test Stand
(EOTS
4.1.3.3.1 Description                                                                                                                    -       -        -           -
4.1.3.3.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -       -        -           -
4.1.3.3.3 Perform EOTS Self Test                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
4.1.3.3.4 Calibrate Blackbody
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Source TO 33D7-45-90-8-11
4.1.3.3.5 Perform 180-Day
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Inspection
4.1.3.4 Cooling and Servicing Unit
(CSU); Ellis and Watts and/or
NESLAB
4.1.3.4.1 Description                                                                                                                    -       -        -           -
4.1.3.4.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -       -        -           -
4.1.3.4.3 Operate                                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
4.1.3.4.4 Perform Periodic
Inspections
4.1.3.4.4.1 60 Day                                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
4.1.3.4.4.2 180 Day                                                                                                                      -       -        -           -
4.1.3.4.5 Repair                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
4.1.3.5 Diesel Generator
4.1.3.5.1 Description                                                                                                                    -       -        -           -
4.1.3.5.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -       -        -           -
4.1.3.5.3 Operate                                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
4.1.3.6 400-Hz Converter
4.1.3.6.1 Description                                                                                                                    -       -        -           -
4.1.3.6.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -       -        -           -
4.1.3.6.3 Test and Inspect                                                                                                               -       -        -           -
4.1.3.7 Air Conditioners
4.1.3.7.1 Description                                                                                                                    -       -        -           -
4.1.3.7.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -       -        -           -
4.1.3.7.3 Operate                                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
4.1.3.7.4 Perform Periodic
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Inspection
4.1.3.8 Portable Reprogramming
Station


                                                                                  33
                                                                                                                                       Attachment 4
                                                   LANTIRN TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                      A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                       Level    Level         Level
                                                      5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                    Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

4.1.3.8.1 Description                                                                                                                    -       -        -           -
4.1.3.8.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -       -        -           -
4.1.3.8.3 Operate                                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
4.1.3.8.4 Program APCCs                                                                                                                  -       -        -           -
4.1.3.9 Download and Analyze
Data Logging Module (DLM) TO                                                                                                             -       -        -           -
11F1-AAQ13
4.1.3.10 Transfer Pods/Systems
to/from Storage/Holding Fixture
4.1.3.10.1 Shipping Container                                                                                                            -       -        -           -
4.1.3.10.2 Maintenance Fixture,
                                                                                                                                         -       -        -           -
Portable or Fixed
4.1.3.10.3 Transport Trailer                                                                                                             -       -        -           -




                                                                                  34
                                                                                                                                       Attachment 4
                                              AN/ALQ 131 POD TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                  2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                    A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                      Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                     Level    Level         Level
                                                    5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                  Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

5 ATTACHMENT 5, ALQ131 POD
TRAINING REQUIREMENTS (Units
that have multiple pods will only
upgrade on one pod/station to 5 or
7 level as determined by workcenter
supervisor)
5.1 I-LEVEL MAINTENANCE TR:
12P3-2ALQ131-22-3, ILSE software
and CAPRE software
5.1.1 AN/ALQ-131 ECM POD
5.1.1.1 Operational Concept                                                                                                            B       B        -           -
5.1.1.2 Description                                                                                                                    B       B        -           -
5.1.1.3 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            B       B        -           -
5.1.1.4 Connect AN/ALQ-131 Block
II Pod to maintenance bench,
                                                                                                                                      2b       -        -           -
support equipment, and cooling
hoses
5.1.1.5 Perform
removal/installation of panels and  *                                                                                                 2b       -        -           -
gondola
5.1.1.6 Retrieve and view AN/ALQ-
131 Block II Pod CITS history using                                                                                                   2b       -        -           -
ILSE and CAPRE
5.1.1.7 Perform ICITS                              *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
5.1.1.8 Perform SCITS                              *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
5.1.1.9 Load Operational Flight
Program (OFP) and Mission Data                     *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
using ILSE
5.1.1.10 Perform AN/ALQ-131
                                                   *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
Block II Pod Total test
5.1.1.11 Perform Band 4 Minimum
                                                                                                                                      2b       -        -           -
Performance Test
5.1.1.12 Perform JAM display                       *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
5.1.1.13 Access Generic Gains                            *                                                                             -       -        -           -
5.1.1.14 Access Test Director                            *                                                                            2b       -        -           -
5.1.1.15 Perform CIPICO (manual
                                                                                                                                       -       -        -           -
and automatic)
5.1.1.16 Remove and install                        *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -

                                                                                35
                                                                                                                                     Attachment 5
                                               AN/ALQ 131 POD TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                   2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                   Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                     A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                       Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level    Level         Level
                                                     5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                   Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

Transmit Control Assembly (TCA)
5.1.1.17 Remove and install High
Voltage Power Supply (HVPS)                         *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -

5.1.1.18 Remove and install Radio
                                                    *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
Frequency Deck
5.1.1.19 Remove and install
Interface Control 12P3-2ALQ131-                     *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
22-3
5.1.1.20 Remove and install lugs
                                                    *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
12P3-2AP3-2ALQ131-22-3, 1-1A-8
5.1.1.21 Remove and install
Receiver Processor Module (RP)                      *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
12P3-2ALQ131-22-3
5.1.1.22 Remove and install RP
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
Tray 1 and Tray 2
5.1.1.23 Perform ABLVPA
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
alignment ILSE software
5.1.1.24 Perform ABHVLD
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
alignment ILSE software
5.1.1.25 Perform ABINLN
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
alignment ILSE software
5.1.1.26 Perform ABTWTA
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
alignment ILSE software
5.1.1.27 Perform 040TPA
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
alignment ILSE software
5.1.1.28 Perform ABOTGA
                                                    *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
alignment ILSE software
5.1.1.29 Perform ABINGA
                                                    *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
alignment ILSE software
5.1.1.30 Perform ABGOAA
                                                    *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
alignment ILSE software
5.1.1.31 Perform ABHLDA
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
alignment ILSE software
5.1.1.32 Perform 45LLDA
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
alignment ILSE software
5.1.1.33 Perform ABNLDA
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
alignment ILSE software
5.1.1.34 Perform ABNPWA                             *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -

                                                                                 36
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 5
                                               AN/ALQ 131 POD TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                   2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                   Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                     A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                       Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level    Level         Level
                                                     5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                   Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

alignment ILSE software
5.1.1.35 Perform ABANTA
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
alignment ILSE software
5.1.1.36 Perform 5ILPRA alignment
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
ILSE software
5.1.1.37 Perform ICLVPS alignment
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
ILSE software
5.1.1.38 Perform RF leak check
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
12P3-2ALQ131-22-3
5.1.1.39 Perform HYPOT alignment
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
ILSE software
5.1.1.40 Perform Advanced
                                                          *                                                                             -       -        -           -
Troubleshooting
5.1.1.41 Troubleshooting Band 3
12P3-2ALQ131-22-6, 12P3-                            *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
2ALQ131-22-1, 12P3-2ALQ131-22-3
5.1.1.42 Troubleshooting Band 4
12P3-2ALQ131-22-4, 12P3-                            *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
2ALQ131-22-1, 12P3-2ALQ131-22-3
5.1.1.43 Troubleshooting Band 5
12P3-2ALQ131-22-5, 12P3-                            *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
2ALQ131-22-1, 12P3-2ALQ131-22-3
5.1.1.44 Troubleshooting Interface
Control (I/C) 12P3-2ALQ131-22-2,
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
12P3-2ALQ131-22-1, 12P3-
2ALQ131-22-3
5.1.1.45 Troubleshooting Receiver
Processor (RP) 12P3-2ALQ131-22-
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
2, 12P3-2ALQ131-22-1, 12P3-
2ALQ131-22-3
5.1.1.46 Load and unload pods in
                                                                                                                                        -       -        -           -
shipping containers 35E20-4-7-1
5.1.1.47 Perform internal
inspection 00-20-1, 00-20-2, 00-20-                       *                                                                             -       -        -           -
5, 00-20-7, and 12P3-2ALQ131-22-3
5.1.1.48 Perform external
inspection 00-20-1, 00-20-2, 00-20-                       *                                                                             -       -        -           -
5, 00-20-7, and 12P3-2ALQ131-22-3
5.1.2 AN/ALM-256(V)
INTERMEDIATE LEVEL SUPPORT
                                                                                 37
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 5
                                               AN/ALQ 131 POD TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                   2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                   Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                     A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                       Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level    Level         Level
                                                     5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                   Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

EQUIPMENT (ILSE)
5.1.2.1 Operational Concept                                                                                                            A        B        -           -
5.1.2.2 Description                                                                                                                    A        B        -           -
5.1.2.3 Theory                                                                                                                         B        B        -
5.1.2.4 Power-on, boot-up, and
power-down AN/ALM-256(V) ILSE                       *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
33D7-13-110-1
5.1.2.5 Inspect, maintain, and
operate AN/ALM-187A Power
                                                    *                                                                                   a       -        -           -
Supply Test Set 33D7-6-315-1 and
ILSE software
5.1.2.6 Load/reprogram AN/ALQ-
131(V) and CAPRE using AN/ALM-
                                                    *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
256(V) ILSE 33DA112-18-1, ILSE
software, and CAPRE software
5.1.2.7 Receive and install SERENE
BYTE/PACERWARE data files update
into AN/ALM-256(V) ILSE AN/ALQ-                     *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
131 Block II System Handbooks (Red
Books) and ILSE software
5.1.2.8 Load AN/ALM-256(V) ILSE
memory 33D7-13-110-1 and ILSE                                                                                                           -       -        -           -
software
5.1.2.9 Perform 7-Day Self-test
                                                    *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
33D7-13-110-1 and ILSE software
5.1.2.10 Perform 14-Day Self-test
                                                    *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
33D7-13-110-1 and ILSE software
5.1.2.11 Perform 30-Day Self-test
                                                    *                                                                                   b       -        -           -
33D7-13-110-1 and ILSE software
5.1.2.12 Perform 90-Day Self-test
                                                    *                                                                                   b       -        -           -
33D7-13-110-1 and ILSE software
5.1.2.13 Perform HD-1094 cooler
prior to use inspections 35E10-20-                  *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
11
5.1.2.14 Perform Antenna Shields
prior to use / 180-day inspection                   *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
33DA85-25-1
5.1.2.15 Troubleshoot and Repair                    *                                                                                   -       -        -            -


                                                                                 38
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 5
                                               AN/ALQ 184 POD TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                   2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                   Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                     A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                       Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level    Level         Level
                                                     5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                   Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

6 ATTACHMENT 6, ALQ184 POD
TRAINING REQUIREMENT (Units
that have multiple pods will only
upgrade on one pod/station to 5 or
7 level as determined by workcenter
supervisor)
6.1 AN/ALQ-184 ELECTRONIC
WARFARE ATTACK POD
6.1.1 Operational Concept                                                                                                              A        B        -           -
6.1.2 Description                                                                                                                      A        B        -           -
6.1.3 Theory of Operation                                                                                                              B        B        -           -
6.1.4 Connect AN/ALQ-184) Pod to
AN/ALM-233D ASE and associated
                                                                                                                                       2b       -        -           -
support equipment 12P3-
2ALQ184-82-2 and ASE software
6.1.5 Perform Canister Separation
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
and Reassembly
6.1.6 Perform Coldplate Removal
                                                    *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
and Installation
6.1.7 Perform AN/ALQ-184
Program Verification Tests (PVT)
                                                    *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
12P3-2ALQ184-82-2 and ASE
software
6.1.8 Perform AN/ALQ-184
Functional Tests F1-F19 12P3-                       *                                                                                           -        -           -
2ALQ184-82-2 and ASE software
6.1.8.1 Perform An/ALQ-184
Functional Tests F1, F2, F4.1, F5, F6,                                                                                                 2b
F8
6.1.9 Perform AN/ALQ-184 System
Calibration Tests T1-T9 12P3-                       *                                                                                           -        -           -
2ALQ184-82-2 and ASE software
6.1.9.1 Perform AN/ALQ-184 System
                                                                                                                                       2b
Calibration Tests T1-T4
6.1.10 Perform AN/ALQ-184
System Calibration Tests T10 series
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
12P3-2ALQ184-82-2 and ASE
software
6.1.11 Perform Tests T10.3.5,                                                                                                          2b                -

                                                                                 39
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 6
                                               AN/ALQ 184 POD TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                   2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                   Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                     A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                       Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level    Level         Level
                                                     5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                   Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

T10.2, T10.1, and T10.3.6
6.1.12 Perform AN/ALQ-184
System Calibration Tests T12 series
                                                    *                                                                                   b       -        -           -
12P3-2ALQ184-82-2 and ASE
software
6.1.13 Perform AN/ALQ-184
System Calibration Tests T13-20
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
12P3-2ALQ184-82-2 and ASE
software
6.1.14 Perform Tests T13, T14
FWD/AFT, T18 FWD/AFT, and T19.1                                                                                                        2b       -        -           -
FWD/AFT
6.1.15 Perform AN/ALQ-184
System Calibration Tests T21 series
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
12P3-2ALQ184-82-2 and ASE
software
6.1.16 Perform Test T21.8                                                                                                              2b       -        -           -
6.1.17 Perform AN/ALQ-184
System Calibration Tests T22, T24,
                                                    *                                                                                   b       -        -           -
T28, T34, and T35 12P3-2ALQ184-
82-2 and ASE software
6.1.18 Perform AN/ALQ-184 Hat
Check 12P3-2ALQ184-82-2 and ASE                     *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
software
6.1.19 Use Diagnostic Test
Oriented System (DTOS) 12P3-                        *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
2ALQ184-82-2 -1 and ASE software
6.1.20 Perform advanced
                                                          *                                                                             -       -        -           -
troubleshooting
6.1.21 Troubleshoot and repair
AN/ALQ-184 PVT failures 12P3-                       *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
2ALQ184-82-2-1 and ASE software
6.1.22 Troubleshoot and repair
AN/ALQ-184 Functional Test failures
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
12P3-2ALQ184-82-2-1 and ASE
software
6.1.23 Troubleshoot and repair
AN/ALQ-184 System Calibration
                                                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
Test failures 12P3-2ALQ184-82-2-1,
12P3-2ALQ184-12-2, and ASE
                                                                                 40
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 6
                                               AN/ALQ 184 POD TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                   2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                   Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                     A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                       Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level    Level         Level
                                                     5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                   Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

software
6.1.24 Perform internal inspection
of AN/ALQ-184 Pod 00-20-1, 00-
                                                          *                                                                             -       -        -           -
20-2, 00-20-7, and 12P3-2ALQ184-
82-2
6.1.25 Perform external inspection
of AN/ALQ-184 Pod 00-20-1, 00-
                                                          *                                                                             -       -        -           -
20-2, 00-20-7, and 12P3-2ALQ184-
82-2
6.2 PORTABLE AUTOMATED TEST
EQUIPMENT CALIBRATOR (PATEC)
6.2.1 Characteristics                                                                                                                  A        B        -           -
6.2.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                              A        B        -           -
6.2.3 Traceability                                                                                                                     A        B        -           -
6.2.4 Perform Calibration of
                                                          *
AN/ALM-233D ASE
6.3 AN/ALM-233D AUTOMATIC
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT (ASE)
6.3.1 Operational Concept                                                                                                              A        B        -           -
6.3.2 Description                                                                                                                      A        B        -           -
6.3.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            B        B
6.3.3 Perform AN/ALM-233D ASE
Initial power-up, Power-up from
Standby, Power-down to Standby,                     *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
and Declassification 33D7-13-89-1
and 33D7-13-89-1-2
6.3.4 Use/maintain AN/ALM-233D
ASE and associated support                          *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
equipment 33D7-13-89-1
6.3.5 Perform AN/ALM-233D ASE
Daily Self-test 33D7-13-89-1 and                    *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
ASE software
6.3.6 Perform AN/ALM-233D ASE
Weekly Self-test 33D7-13-89-1 and                   *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
ASE software
6.3.7 Perform AN/ALM-233D ASE
Monthly Self-test 33D7-13-89-1                      *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
and ASE software
6.3.8 Perform AN/ALM-233D ASE                       *                                                                                   -       -        -           -

                                                                                 41
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 6
                                               AN/ALQ 184 POD TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                   2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                   Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                     A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                       Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level    Level         Level
                                                     5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                   Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

Semi-annual Self-test 33D7-13-89-
1 and ASE software
6.3.9 Perform Pod Coldplate Liquid
Cooler (PCLC) operational checkout                  *                                                                                   b       -        -           -
33D7-13-89-1
6.3.10 Perform Vacuum Fill unit
operational checkout 33D7-13-89-                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
1
6.3.11 Load/Reprogram AN/ALQ-
184 Pod using Operator Support
                                                    *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
33D7-13-89-1 and ASE software

6.3.12 Display/Change Instrument
status using Operator Support                       *                                                                                  2b       -        -           -
33D7-13-89-1 and ASE software
6.3.13 Perform Advanced
                                                          *                                                                             -       -        -           -
Troubleshooting
6.3.14 Troubleshoot/Repair                          *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
6.3.15 Receive and install SERENE
BYTE/PACERWARE data files update                    *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
into AN/ALM-233D ASE




                                                                                 42
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 6
                                             AN/ALQ 188A POD TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                  2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                    A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                      Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                     Level    Level         Level
                                                    5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                  Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

7 ATTACHMENT 7, ALQ188A POD
TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
7.1 AN/ALQ-188A ECM POD
7.1.1 Operational Concept                                                                                                              -       A        -           -
7.1.2 Description                                                                                                                      -       A        -           -
7.1.3 Theory of Operation                                                                                                              -       -        -           -
7.1.4 Connect AN/ALQ-188A pod
to AN/ALM-256(V) ILSE or GLM 10
and associated support equipment
                                                   *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
12P3-2ALQ188-12, AN/ALQ-188A(V)
CMS User s Guide, and Local
Checklist
7.1.5 Perform operational
checkout and reprogramming of
AN/ALQ-188A pod 12P3-2ALQ188-                      *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
12, AN/ALQ-188A(V) CMS User s
Guide, and Local Checklist
7.1.6 Perform internal inspection
of AN/ALQ-188A 00-20-1, 00-20-2,
                                                         *                                                                             -       -        -           -
00-20-5, 00-20-7, and 12P3-
2ALQ188-12
7.1.7 Perform external inspection
of AN/ALQ-188A 00-20-1, 00-20-2,
                                                         *                                                                             -       -        -           -
00-20-5, 00-20-7, and 12P3-
2ALQ188-12
7.1.8 Perform periodic
                                                   *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
Maintenance inspection
7.1.9 Troubleshoot                                 *                                                                                   -       -        -           -
7.1.10 Repair                                      *                                                                                   -       -        -           -




                                                                                43
                                                                                                                                     Attachment 7
                                      AVIONICS FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                   2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                   Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                     A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                       Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level    Level         Level
                                                     5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                   Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

8 AVIONICS FUNDAMENTALS
8.1 AVIONICS SUPPORT SUBJECTS
8.1.1 Safety                                                                                                                            B       -        -           -
8.1.2 First aid                                                                                                                         A       -        -           -
8.1.3 Electrostatic Discharge (ESD)
                                                                                                                                        B       -        -           -
control
8.1.4 Electromagnetic Effects (EMP
                                                                                                                                        B       -        -           -
/ EMI)
8.1.5 Metric Notation
8.1.5.1 Powers of ten                                                                                                                   B       -        -           -
8.1.5.2 Electrical prefixes                                                                                                             B       -        -           -
8.1.6 Digital Numbering Systems                                                                                                         A       -        -           -
8.1.7 Common Tools                                                                                                                      A       -        -           -
8.1.8 Technical Publications                                                                                                            A       -        -           -
8.1.9 Documentation                                                                                                                     A       -        -           -
8.2 Test Equipment
8.2.1 Use Digital Multimeter                                                                                                           2b       -        -           -
8.2.2 Use Oscilloscope                                                                                                                 2b       -        -           -
8.2.3 Wave Generators                                                                                                                   A       -        -           -
8.3 Basic Electricity
8.3.1 Direct Current (DC)                                                                                                               B       -        -           -
8.3.2 Alternating Current (AC)                                                                                                          B       -        -           -
8.3.3 Resistance Theory                                                                                                                 B       -        -           -
8.3.3.1 Measure Resistance                                                                                                             2b       -        -           -
8.3.4 Capacitance Theory                                                                                                                B       -        -           -
8.3.5 Inductance Theory                                                                                                                 B       -        -           -
8.4 Electromagnetic Devices
8.4.1 Transformers                                                                                                                      B       -        -           -
8.4.2 Relays And Solenoids
8.4.2.1 Theory                                                                                                                          B       -        -           -
8.4.2.2 Troubleshoot Relays                                                                                                            2b       -        -           -
8.4.3 Motor Theory
8.4.3.1 DC                                                                                                                              A       -        -           -
8.4.3.2 AC
                                                                                                                                        A       -        -           -


                                                                                 44
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 8
                                      AVIONICS FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                   2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                   Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                     A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                       Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level    Level         Level
                                                     5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                   Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

8.4.4 Generator Theory
8.4.4.1 DC                                                                                                                              A       -        -           -
8.4.4.2 AC                                                                                                                              A       -        -           B
8.4.5 Synchro/Servo                                                                                                                     B       -        -           -
8.4.6 Transducer                                                                                                                        B       -        -           -
8.5 Solid State Devices
8.5.1 Theory                                                                                                                            A       -        -           -
8.5.2 Diodes (LED, Zener, etc)                                                                                                          A       -        -           -
8.5.3 Integrated Circuits (IC)                                                                                                          A       -        -           -
8.5.4 Operational amplifiers                                                                                                            A       -        -           -
8.6 Power Supply Circuits
8.6.1 Theory                                                                                                                            B       -        -           -
8.7 Wave Generating Circuits
8.7.1 Theory                                                                                                                            A       -        -           -
8.8 Digital Logic Circuits
8.8.1 Theory                                                                                                                            A       -        -           -
8.8.2 Gates                                                                                                                             A       -        -           -
8.8.3 Flip flops                                                                                                                        A       -        -           -
8.8.4 Digital to Analog and Analog
                                                                                                                                        A       -        -           -
to Digital Converters
8.9 Basic Computer & Network
Fundamentals
8.9.1 Theory                                                                                                                            A       -        -           -
8.9.2 Network Components                                                                                                                A       -        -           -
8.9.3 Protocols                                                                                                                         A       -        -           -
8.9.4 Topologies (Architecture)                                                                                                         A       -        -           -
8.1 Basic Communications
8.10.1 Radio Frequency Theory                                                                                                           A       -        -           -
8.10.2 Frequency Spectrum                                                                                                               A       -        -           -
8.10.3 Modulation (AM/FM)                                                                                                               A       -        -           -
8.10.4 Demodulation (AM/FM)                                                                                                             A       -        -           -
8.10.5 Receivers/Transmitters AFI
                                                                                                                                        A       -        -           B
38-101 / AFPD 38-1
8.10.6 Transmission Mediums
                                                                                                                                        A       -        -           -
Theory
8.10.7 Waveguides                                                                                                                       A       -        -           -

                                                                                 45
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 8
                                     AVIONICS FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                  2.         3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  Core Tasks                                                             Training/ Information Provided (See Note)

   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 a     b     a                         C              D           E      A       B            C
                                                    A     B          A               B        C             D            E              3       5             7
                                                                                                                                      Skill   Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                                     Level    Level         Level
                                                    5     7         Tng           Tng      Trainee        Trainer    Certifier         (1)     (1)     (1)       (1)
                                                  Level Level       Start       Complete   Initials       Initials   Initials        Course   CDC     Course    CDC

8.10.8 Data Buses                                                                                                                      A       -        -           -
8.10.9 Fiber Optics                                                                                                                    A       -        -           A
8.10.10 Coaxial Cables                                                                                                                 A       -        -           -
8.10.11 Antennas                                                                                                                       A       -        -           -
8.11 Assemble Solder Type
Connections
8.11.1 Terminal connections                                                                                                           1b       -        -           -
8.11.2 Mutipin Connector                                                                                                              1b       -        -           -
8.11.3 Coaxial connector                                                                                                              1b       -        -           B
8.11.4 Desolder Procedures                                                                                                            1b       -        -           -
8.12 Assemble Solderless Type
Connections
8.12.1 Coaxial Connector                                                                                                              1b       -        -           -
8.12.2 Multipin Connector                                                                                                             1b       -        -           -
8.12.3 Twin-axial Connector (Data
                                                                                                                                      1b       -        -           A
Bus)
8.12.4 Crimped connection
8.12.4.1 Terminal Lugs                                                                                                                1b       -        -           -
8.12.4.2 Wire Splice                                                                                                                  1b       -        -           -
8.12.5 Shield Terminations                                                                                                            1b       -        -           -
8.13 General Maintenance
Practices
8.13.1 Assemble Mutipin
                                                                                                                                      1b       -        -           -
Connector Harness
8.13.2 Secure Cable Harness                                                                                                           1b       -        -           B
8.13.3 Use Safety Wire                                                                                                                1b       -        -           -
8.13.4 Troubleshooting Procedures
8.13.4.1 Isolate Wire Open                                                                                                            1b       -        -           -
8.13.4.2 Isolate Wire Short                                                                                                           1b       -        -           -
8.13.4.3 Isolate Voltage Fault on
Multipin Connector Harness AFI                                                                                                        1b       -        -           A
21-101
8.13.4.4 Isolate Crossed
Connection on Multipin Connector                                                                                                      1b       -        -           -
Harness




                                                                                46
                                                                                                                                     Attachment 8
                                                2AX7X CDC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                              Provided
                                                                                                 A         B           C
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                                    3-Skill
                                                                                                          5-Skill Level     7-Skill Level
                                                                                               Level

                                                                                               Course        CDC          Course      CDC


Attachment 9 – AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
NOTE 1: Columns 2 and 3 are deleted from this STS because all items are SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE LEVEL only and require
        no certification.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
NOTE 4: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
NOTE 5: This attachment is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X, 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman,
        CDCs.
9.1.          MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY
9.1.1.    Aircraft and Equipment Readiness
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                       A
9.1.2.    Maintenance Concept
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-129
                                                                                                                                       A
9.1.3.    Reliability and Maintainability (R&M)
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-118 and TO 00-35D-54
                                                                                                                                       A
9.1.4.    Operating Instructions (OI)
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 33-360
                                                                                                                                       A
9.1.5.    Maintenance Information Systems (MIS)
          TR: AFCSM 21-556 Volume 2, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-116, and TO 00-20-2
                                                                                                                                       B
9.1.6.    Maintenance Metrics
          TR: AFI 21-103 and AFTTP 3-3
                                                                                                                                       A
9.1.7.    Maintenance Repair Priorities
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                       A
9.1.8.    Historical Aircraft and Equipment Records
          TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20-1
                                                                                                                                       A

9.2.          MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION KEY LEADER RESPONSIBILITIES
9.2.1.    Wing Commander (WG/CC)
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                       A
9.2.2.    Wing Vice Commander (WG/CV)
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                       A
9.2.3.    Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC)
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                       A
9.2.4.    Maintenance Group Deputy Commander (MXG/CD)
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                       A
9.2.5.    MXG Superintendent (SUPT)
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                       A
9.2.6.    Squadron Commander (SQ/CC)
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                       A
9.2.7.    Maintenance Operations Officer (MOO)/Maintenance Superintendent (MX SUPT)
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                       A
9.2.8.    Flight Commander/Flight Chief
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                       A
9.2.9.    AMU OIC/Superintendent (SUPT)
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                       A
9.2.10.   Section NCOIC/Chief
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                       B
9.2.11.   Production Superintendent (Pro Super)
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                       A
9.3.      FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS SQUADRON (MOS)
9.3.1.    Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF)
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                       A



                                                                   47
                                                                                                         Attachment 9
                                               2AX7X CDC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                       Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                       Provided
                                                                                          A         B           C
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                            3-Skill
                                                                                                  5-Skill Level     7-Skill Level
                                                                                       Level

                                                                                       Course        CDC          Course      CDC

9.3.2.   Maintenance Training Flight (MTF)
         TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 36-2232
                                                                                                                               A
9.3.3.   Programs and Resources Flight
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.4.     FUNCTIONS OF AIRCRAFT/HELICOPTER MAINTENANCE SQUADRON
         (AMXS/HMXS)
9.4.1.   Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU)
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.4.2.   Flightline Expediter
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.4.3.   Aircrew and Maintenance Debrief Section
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.4.4.   Aircraft Section
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.4.5.   Specialist Section
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.4.6.   Weapons Section
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.4.7.   Support Section
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.5.     FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (MXS)
9.5.1.   Accessories Flight
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.5.2.   Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.5.3.   Armament Flight
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.5.4.   Avionics Flight
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.5.5.   Fabrication Flight
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.5.6.   Maintenance Flight
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.5.7.   Munitions Flight
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.5.8.   Propulsion Flight
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.5.9.   Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Flight
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.6.     MAINTENANCE TRAINING
9.6.1    Types of Training
         TR: AFI 36-2232 and the ETCA site located at: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
                                                                                                                               A
9.6.2.   Training Documentation
         TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2201 and AFI 36-2232
                                                                                                                               A
9.6.3.   Training Business Area (TBA)
         TR: https://www.my.af.mil/imdsltpa/IMDSTWeb/ActionServlet
                                                                                                                               B
9.6.4.   Special Certification Rosters
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
9.6.5.   Maintenance Qualification Program (MQP)
         TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFPD 10-9
                                                                                                                               A
9.6.6.   Training Management
         TR: AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101 and AETCI 36-2601
9.6.6.1. Training Forecast                                                                                                     A


                                                                        48
                                                                                                 Attachment 9
                                               2AX7X CDC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                     Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                     Provided
                                                                                                        A         B           C
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                                          3-Skill
                                                                                                                5-Skill Level     7-Skill Level
                                                                                                     Level

                                                                                                     Course        CDC          Course      CDC


9.6.6.2. Training Request                                                                                                                    A
9.6.6.3. Master Training Plan                                                                                                                A
9.7.      PERSONNEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
9.7.1.    Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and Unit Personnel Manpower Roster (UPMR)
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 36-2110, AFI 38-201 and AFTTP 3-3
9.7.2.    Personnel Utilization
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 21-101
9.8.      MAINTENANCE SUPPLY
9.8.1.    Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) Supply Support
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 (Vol. 1) and AFTTP 3-3
9.8.2.    Readiness Spares Packages
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFTTP 3-3
9.8.3.    Consumables Management
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFTTP 3-3
9.8.4.    Equipment Items
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFMAN 23-220
9.8.5.    Supply Assets Requiring Functional Check, Calibration, or Operational Flight Programming
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and TO 00-20-3
9.8.6.    Precious Metals Recovery Program
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
9.8.7.    Supply Points
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
9.8.8.    Local Manufacture
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 21-101
9.8.9.    Repair Cycle Assets
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
9.8.10.   Supply Management Products
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
9.8.11.   Tail Number Bins (TNB)
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
9.8.12.   Maintenance Repair/Supply Delivery Priorities
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
9.8.13.   Classified Assets
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFJI 31-102, TO 00-5-1 and TO 00-20-1
9.8.14.   Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 32-7086 and AFI 90-821
9.8.15.   Supply Deficiency and Discrepancy Reporting
                                                                                                                                             B
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and TO 00-35D-54
9.8.16.   Special Handling of Supply Assets Containing Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                                                             A
          TR: AFI 24-203, AFI 32-7086, AFMAN 23-110, TO 42B2-1-3, and TO 6J3-1-1
9.8.17.   Maintenance Supply Liaison
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
                                                                                                                                             A
9.9.      TECHNICAL ORDER MANAGEMENT
9.9.1.    Technical Orders Distribution Process
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 63-101, AFTTP 3-3 and TO 00-5-1
                                                                                                                                             A
9.9.2.    Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO)
          TR: TO 00-5-15
                                                                                                                                             A
9.9.3.    Technical Order Change Process
          TR: AFI 21-303
                                                                                                                                             A
9.9.4.    Technical Order Waivers
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-303
                                                                                                                                             A
9.10.     MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS AND PROGRAMS

                                                                        49
                                                                                                               Attachment 9
                                              2AX7X CDC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                Provided
                                                                                   A         B           C
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                     3-Skill
                                                                                           5-Skill Level     7-Skill Level
                                                                                Level

                                                                                Course        CDC          Course      CDC

9.10.1.   Cannibalization Program
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-3
                                                                                                                        A
9.10.2. Restricted Maintenance Areas
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                        A
9.10.3. Red Ball Maintenance
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                        A
9.10.4. Aircraft/Equipment Impoundment Program
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                        A
9.10.5. Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Program
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFTTP 3-3
                                                                                                                        A
9.10.6. Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                        A
9.10.7. Tool Management
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                        A
9.10.8. Tool Accountability
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                        A
9.10.8.1. Marking and Tool Identification
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                        A
9.10.8.2 Locally Manufactured, Developed, or Modified Tools and Equipment
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                        A
9.10.8.3. Lost Item/Tool Procedures
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                        A
9.10.9. Maintenance Recovery Team
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                        A
9.11.     QUALITY ASSURANCE (QA) PROGRAM
9.11.1.   Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program (MSEP)
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-3
                                                                                                                        A
9.11.2.   QA Product Improvement Program
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                        A
9.11.3    Configuration Management (CM) and Modification Management
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                        A




                                                                    50
                                                                                          Attachment 9
