DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                              CFETP 3D1X7
Headquarters US Air Force                                                  Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                             1 September 2014



                                     AFSC 3D1X7

                         CABLE AND ANTENNA SYSTEMS




                            CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                              AND TRAINING PLAN


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                           CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                 CABLE AND ANTENNA SYSTEMS
                                          AFSC 3D1X7
                                         Table of Contents
PART I
Preface..............................................................................................................................................4
Abbreviations/Terms Explained ......................................................................................................6
Section A - General Information ...................................................................................................16
Purpose of the CFETP
Use of the CFETP
Coordination and Approval of the CFETP
Section B - Career Field Progression and Information .................................................................18
Specialty Description
      Cable and Antenna Systems Apprentice/Journeyman/Craftsman (3D137/3D157/3D177)
      Cyber Systems Superintendent /Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) (3D190/3D100)
Skill/Career Progression
      Apprentice (3-Level) Training
      Journeyman (5-Level) Training
      Craftsman (7-Level) Training
      Superintendent (9-Level) Training
      Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) Training
      MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM)
      Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM)
Training Decisions
Community College of the Air Force Academic Programs
Career Field Path
      Education and Training Path Table
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements ............................................................................29
Purpose
Specialty Qualification Requirements
     Apprentice (3-Level) Training
     Journeyman (5-Level) Training
     Craftsman (7-Level) Training
     Superintendent (9-Level) Training
Section D - Resource Constraints ..................................................................................................33
Purpose
Apprentice (3-Level) Training
Journeyman (5-Level) Training
Craftsman (7-Level) Training
Section E - Transition Training Guide ..........................................................................................33




                                                                          2
Part II
Section A - Specialty Training Standard .......................................................................................34
Section B - Course Objective List .................................................................................................71
Section C - Support Materials .......................................................................................................71
Air Force Job Qualification Standards and Air Force Qualification Training Packages
Section D - Training Course Index ................................................................................................72
Purpose
Air Force In-Residence Courses
Air University Courses
Exportable Courses
Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements ...............................................................................73




OPR: 364th TRS/TRR
Approved By: CMSgt. Robert D. Puesey 3D1 AF Career Field Manager (SAF/CIO A6CF)
Supersedes: CFETP 3D1X7, dated 1 December 2010
Pages: 73




                                                                  3
                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                         CABLE AND ANTENNA SYSTEMS
                                  AFSC 3D1X7
PART I
Preface
1. The changing Command, Control, Communications, Computer, and Intelligence (C4I) and
Air and Space Expeditionary Forces (AEF) environments require vision, preparation, and
attention to ensure people have the right skills and tools to deliver the C4I capabilities and the
support required by the war fighter in meeting the Air Force mission of today and the vision of
the future. Declining resources, expanding diversity of mission, and ever-changing technologies
in the Air Force are impacting the availability of our most valuable resource--people. These
factors will continue to exist in the future, making it essential for the work force to be effectively
and efficiently trained to perform duties within each skill level of an Air Force Specialty (AFS).
To meet the challenges of tomorrow, the Air Force must place a greater emphasis on career field
training. This Cable and Antenna Systems Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is
a comprehensive core training document that identifies life-cycle training/education
requirements, support resources, and minimum core task requirements for the 3D1X7 specialty.
The plan is a "training road map" for the career field. It provides personnel a clear career path to
success and makes career field training identifiable, measurable, and budget defensible.
2. This CFETP along with the 3DXXX Common Core CFETP is a comprehensive education
and training document that identifies life cycle education and training requirements, training
support resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP
documents the career field training program and consists of two parts. Management uses both
parts in conjunction with the Training Business Area (TBA) to plan, manage, and control
training within the career field. NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II
to support duty position qualification training.
2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan; Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path; Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, experience, training,
and other); and Section D indicates resource constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower,
equipment, facilities; Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through
MSgt.
2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A: identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS)
and includes duties, tasks, Training References (TRs) to support training, AETC conducted
training, wartime course and core tasks and correspondence course requirements. Section B:
contains the Course Objectives List (COL) and training standards supervisors will use to
determine if airmen satisfied training requirements. Section C: identifies available support
materials. An example is a Qualification Training Package, which may be developed to support
proficiency training; Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use to
determine resources available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional
courses; Section E identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to
determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level,
supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate
with the overall goals of this plan.
     3. Use of the guidance provided in this CFETP provides the foundation for effective and
efficient training for individuals in this career field at the appropriate points in their careers. This
                                                   4
plan enables the Air Force to train today's work force for tomorrow's jobs.




                                    5
                                 Abbreviations/Terms Explained
This section provides a common understanding of the terms that apply to the Cable and Antenna
Systems Career Field and Education Training Plan.
Advanced Training (AT). A formal course of training that leads to a technical or supervisory
level of an AFS. Training is for selected airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.
Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF). The AEF is the Air Force’s methodology for
organizing, training, equipping, and sustaining rapidly responsive air and space forces to meet
defense strategy requirements. Through the AEF, consisting of enabler and tempo banded
capabilities the Air Force supports defense strategy requirements using a combination of both
permanently assigned and rotational (allocated) forces.
Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force (AETF). The AETF is the Air Force’s primary
warfighting organization and the means by which we present forces to a Joint Forces
Commander (JFC). When established, AETFs will form up under the designated Air Force
component headquarters.
Air Education Training Command (AETC). Responsible for the recruiting, training and
education of Air Force personnel. AETC also provides pre-commissioning, professional military
and continuing education.
Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Representative appointed by the respective HQ
USAF Deputy Chief of Staff or Under Secretariat to ensure that assigned Air Force specialties
are trained and utilized to support Air Force mission requirements.
Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD). The official directory for all military
enlisted classification descriptions, codes, and identifiers. Establishes the occupational structure
of the Air Force enlisted force. The occupational structure is flexible to permit enlisted
personnel to specialize and develop their skills and abilities while allowing the Air Force to meet
changing mission requirements. Individual enlisted personnel have a joint responsibility with
commanders and supervisors at all levels to fully develop their abilities consistent with Air Force
needs and within the established patterns of specialization.
Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualification.
The tasks on AFJQSs are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.
Air Force Qualification Training Package (AFQTP). An instructional course designed for
use at the unit to qualify or aid qualification in a duty position, program, or on a piece of
equipment. It may be printed, computer-based, or other audiovisual media.
Air Force Specialty (AFS). A group of positions, with the same title and code that requires
common qualifications.
Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP). The actions and methods that
implement joint doctrine that describe how forces will be employed in joint operations. They are
promulgated by the Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff in coordination with the Combatants
Commands, Services and the JCS.
Air University Associate-to-Baccalaureate Cooperative (AU ABC). Allows Airmen to turn a
Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree into a Bachelor’s Degree from an
accredited university. The ABC program has established a partnership with various civilian
higher-education institutions to offer four-year degree opportunities via distance learning. The


                                                 6
participating schools will accept all of the credits earned by Airmen who have attained a CCAF
degree and apply them to a Bachelor’s Degree related to their Air Force specialty.
Air University/ AFCDA (Air Force Career Development Academy). The result of a
reorganization of the Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL); provides
access to the Extension Course Institute.
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive core
training document that identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements; training support
resources and minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give
personnel a clear path and instill a sense of industry in career field training. CFETPs are
officially posted at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.
Certifying Official. A person assigned by the commander to determine an individual’s ability to
perform a task to required standards.
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE) Task
Qualification Training (TQT). CBRNE TQT ensures personnel maintain proficiency in
performing mission-critical tasks in a CBRNE environment. See AFI 10-2501, Air Force
Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, and AFMAN 10-2602,
Nuclear, Biological, Chemical and Conventional (NBCC) Defense Operations and Standards for
additional information/requirements.
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) Code. CEM codes identify all chief master sergeant positions
in the Enlisted Classification Structure. They also identify chief master sergeants who, through
extensive experience and training, have demonstrated managerial ability to plan, direct,
coordinate, implement, and control a wide range of work activity. Some managerial duties and
responsibilities that are common to all chief enlisted managers are: managing and directing
personnel resource activities; interpreting and enforcing policy and applicable directives;
establishing control procedures to meet work goals and standards; recommending or initiating
actions to improve functional operation efficiency; planning and programming work
commitments, and schedules; developing plans regarding facilities, supplies, and equipment
procurement and maintenance.
Collaboration. Collaboration is the interaction among two or more individuals encompassing a
variety of behaviors including: communication, information sharing, coordination, cooperation,
problem-solving, and negotiation.
Collaborative Tools. Collaborative tools consist of various web-based technologies including
advanced white boarding, groupware, and facilitation. Collaborative capabilities assist
significantly with managing information throughout its life cycle and enable Air Force members
to perform most office-oriented and operational communication tasks from their desktops.
Command, Control, Communications, Computer, Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance (C4ISR). Integrated systems of doctrine, procedures, organizational structures,
personnel, equipment, facilities, and communications designed to support a commander’s
exercise of command and control through all phases of the operational continuum. C4 systems
include base visual information support systems.
Communications-Computer Systems (C-CS). The facilities, equipment, communications,
procedures, and personnel essential to a commander for planning, directing, and controlling
operations of assigned forces pursuant to the missions assigned.

                                                 7
Computer Based Training (CBT). A forum for training in which the student learns via a
computer terminal. It is an especially effective training tool that allows the students to practice
applications while they learn.
Content Management. A set of processes and technologies supporting the evolutionary life
cycle of digital information. This digital information is often referred to as content or, to be
precise, digital content. Digital content may take the form of text, such as documents,
multimedia like audio or video files, or any other file type that follows a content life cycle that
requires management.
Continuation Training. Additional advanced training that exceeds the minimum upgrade
training requirements and emphasizes present or future duty assignments.
Core Competency. An integrated bundle of expert knowledge and organizational skills inherent
to a particular career field(s) which makes a disproportionate contribution to the success of
providing the right skills needed for military operations, anywhere anytime. It cannot be
duplicated by any other organization, and is critical for the future.
Core Task. A task AFCFMs identify as a minimum qualification requirement for everyone
within an AFSC, regardless of duty position. A core task may be specified for a particular skill
level or in general across the AFSC. Guidance for using core tasks can be found in the
applicable CFETP narrative.
Course Objective List (COL). A publication derived from the initial/advanced skills Course
Training Standard (CTS), identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements and respective
standards provided to achieve a 3-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to
assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201.
Course Training Standard (CTS). A standard developed for all courses not governed by an
STS, including specialized training packages and computer-based training courses.
Critical Tasks. Critical Tasks are tasks that require specific training and certification above and
beyond other tasks. Tasks may be defined as critical either through AFI, Technical Orders,
higher headquarters, or at any level in the unit.
Cross-Utilization Training. Training on non-duty AFSC specific tasks.
Cyberspace. A global domain within the information environment consisting of the
interdependent network of information technology infrastructures, including the Internet,
telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded processors and controllers.
Cyberspace Operations. The employment of cyber capabilities where the primary purpose is to
achieve objectives in or through cyberspace. Such operations include computer network
operations and activities to operate and defend the DoD Information Network (DoDIN).
Data Management. The process of planning, coordinating, sharing, and controlling
organizations’ data resources (AFPD 33-3, Information Management).
Direct Reporting Unit (DRU). Air Force subdivisions directly subordinate to the CSAF. A
DRU performs a mission that does not fit into any of the MAJCOMs. A DRU has many of the
same administrative and organizational responsibilities as a MAJCOM (Example of a DRU:
USAF Academy).
Document Management. The process of managing documents through their life cycle; from
inception through creation, review, storage, dissemination, and archival or deletion. Document
management can also be a database system to organize stored documents, or a search mechanism
to quickly find specific documents (AFPD 33-3).
                                                  8
DoD Directive 8570.01 “Information Assurance Training, Certification, and Workforce
Management.” Provides guidance and procedures for the training, certification, and
management of the DoD workforce conducting Information Assurance (IA) functions in
assigned duty positions.
DoD Information Network (DoDIN). The globally interconnected, end-to-end set of
information capabilities, associated processes, and personnel for collecting, processing, storing,
disseminating and managing information on demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support
personnel. The DoDIN includes all owned and leased communications and computing systems
and services, software (including applications), data, security services, and other associated
services necessary to achieve Information Superiority. The DoDIN supports all Department of
Defense, National Security, and related Intelligence community missions and functions
(strategic, operational, tactical, and business), in war and in peace. The DoDIN provides
capabilities from all operating locations (bases, posts, camps, stations, facilities, mobile
platforms, and deployed sites). The DoDIN provides interfaces to coalition, allied, and non-
DOD users and systems.
DoD Occupational Code. The DoD Occupational Code index groups similar occupations from
one or more Service populations into a logical and consistent structure suitable for a variety of
analytical purposes. Some of these include serving as a guide to the Office of the Secretary of
Defense in manpower management and policy planning, to the Military Departments for various
personnel administration functions, and as a basis for statistical reports. The enlisted section
catalogs military and civilian occupations into 10 two-digit occupational areas, 69 three-digit
occupational groups, and 170 four-digit occupational subgroups. The allocation of military and
civilian occupational specialties to the various DoD occupational groupings has been based on
analysis of the duties of each specialty, as described in the various occupational indexes
published by each Military Service and the Office of Personnel Management. While positions
with duties and responsibilities that have been judged similar are grouped together, these
positions are not necessarily identical; they may vary considerably as a result of differences in
mission, equipment, and concept of personnel utilization and development.
Duty Position Tasks. The tasks assigned to an individual for the position currently held. These
include, at a minimum, all core tasks that correspond to the duty position, and tasks assigned by
the supervisor (AFI 36-2201).
Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA). Located at
https://etca.randolph.af.mil, the ETCA contains specific MAJCOM procedures, fund cite
instructions, reporting instructions, and listings for those formal courses the MAJCOMs or FOAs
conduct or manage. The ETCA contains courses the Air Force and reserve forces conduct or
administer and serves as a reference for the Air Force, DoD, other military services, government
agencies, and security assistance programs.
Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.
Enterprise. The entire range of communications/networking within garrison and tactical realms
to include voice, video, data, imagery, and sensor.
Enterprise Information Management (EIM). Encompasses a set of strategies for
organizational management of all aspects of enterprise data as information assets. The proper
models, data architecture, application architecture, and integration vision enables using the
“enterprise information asset” for strategic analysis, customer-centricity, performance and
productivity analytics, and personalization, eventually providing a means for transitioning from

                                                 9
an operational, line-of-business oriented application environment, to an intelligent, learning, and
agile organization.
Enterprise Information System (EIS). A portfolio of services that bring about Enterprise
Information Management (EIM) capabilities.
Expeditionary Aerospace Force (EAF). The EAF concept is how the Air Force will organize,
train, equip, and sustain itself by creating a mindset and cultural state that embraces the unique
characteristics of aerospace power – range, speed, flexibility, precision – to meet the national
security challenges of the 21st Century.
Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.
Field Operating Agency (FOA). FOAs are subdivisions of the Air Force directly subordinate
to a headquarters US Air Force functional manager. A FOA performs field activities beyond the
scope of any of the MAJCOMs. The activities are specialized or associated with an Air Force-
wide mission (Example of a FOA is the Air Force Weather Agency).
Field Training. Technical, operator, and other training that either a field training detachment or
field training team conducts at operational locations on specific systems and associated direct-
support equipment for maintenance and aircrew personnel.
Functional Area Manager (FAM). The individual accountable for the management and
oversight of all personnel and equipment within a specific functional area to support operational
planning and execution. Responsibilities include, but are not limited to, developing and
reviewing policy; developing, managing, and maintaining Unit Type Codes (UTC); developing
criteria for and monitoring readiness reporting; force posturing; and analysis. At each level of
responsibility (Headquarters Air Force, MAJCOM, Air Component, FOA, DRU, and Unit), the
FAM should be the most highly knowledgeable and experienced person within the functional
area and have the widest range of visibility over the functional area readiness and capability
issues.
Functional Manager. An individual assigned collateral responsibility for training,
classification, utilization, and career development of enlisted personnel. AFSC Functional
Managers exist at MAJCOM, NAF and base level.
Global Combat Support System – Air Force (GCSS-AF). An enterprise infrastructure
program established to develop, integrate, and deploy combat support information capabilities.
The mission of GCSS-AF is to provide timely, accurate, and trusted Agile Combat Support
(ACS) information to Joint and Air Force commanders, their staffs, and ACS personnel at all
ranks and echelons with the appropriate level of security needed to execute the Air Force mission
throughout the spectrum of military operations. GCSS-AF is the means by which ACS
functional systems will be modernized and integrated to improve business processes supported
on a single robust network-centric infrastructure. In addition to integrating combat support
applications, GCSS-AF also provides core enterprise services such as a common user
presentation through the AF Portal, Enterprise Information Management (Workflow, Records
Management, Document Management, Knowledge Management, and Collaboration), and an
enterprise data warehouse.
Global Command and Control System (GCCS). An automated information system designed
to support deliberate and crisis planning with the use of an integrated set of analytic tools and
flexible data transfer capabilities. GCCS will become the single C4I system to support the
warfighter from foxhole to command post.

                                                10
Go/No-Go. The “Go” is the stage at which a trainee has gained enough skill, knowledge, and
experience to perform the tasks without supervision; meets the task standard. “No-Go” is the
stage at which the trainee has not gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform
task without supervision; does not meet task standard.
Individual Training Plan (ITP). Use Training Business Area (TBA) to document training.
TBA reflects past and current qualifications, and is used to determine training requirements. It is
intended to be a complete history of past training and current qualifications. Supervisors will
ensure all documentation is accurate and comprehensive.
Information Life Cycle. Typically characterized as creation or collection, processing,
dissemination, use, storage, protection, and disposition.
Information Management (IM). The planning, budgeting, manipulating, and controlling of
information throughout its life cycle. Joint Publication 3-0 further defines IM as the function of
managing an organization’s information resources by the handling of knowledge acquired by one
or many different individuals and organizations in a way that optimizes access by all who have a
share in that knowledge or a right to that knowledge.
Information Resources Management (IRM). The process of managing information resources
to accomplish agency missions and to improve agency performance (e.g., the reduction of
information collection burdens on the public).
Information Systems (IS). Set of information resources organized for the collection, storage,
processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, disposition, display, or transmission of
information.
Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level award for
enlisted or mandatory upgrade training to qualified officers.
Information Technology Fundamentals (ITF). The scope of training in the ITF course
includes network theory, network components, software, cryptology, network fault isolation
techniques, cyber security, communication and information professionals, operational risk
management, legal and ethics, C4I security, enterprise systems, CBRN personal and family
countermeasures and cyber operations.
Information Technology Fundamentals Electronic Principles (ITF EP). Training which
includes electronic principles subjects of test equipment, basic circuits and components,
electromagnetic devices, solid state devices, transistor amplifier circuits, power supplies, wave
generation, digital numbering systems, digital logic, and basic communications theory.
Information Technology/National Security Systems (IT/NSS). Any equipment, or
interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, that is used in the automatic acquisition,
storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange,
transmission, or reception of data or information by the Executive Agency. This includes
equipment used by a DoD Component directly, or used by a contractor under a contract with the
DoD Component, which requires the use of such equipment, or requires the use, to a significant
extent, of such equipment in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product. The
term "IT" also includes computers, ancillary equipment, software, firmware and similar
procedures, services (including support services), and related resources. Notwithstanding the
above, the term "IT" does not include any equipment that is acquired by a Federal contractor
incidental to a Federal contract. The term "IT" includes National Security Systems (NSS).
Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly (but flexible) process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel

                                                11
are taught in a cost efficient way to become educated on the knowledge, skills, and abilities
essential for successful job performance.
Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS). JTRS will link the power of the DoD Information
Network (DoDIN) to the war fighter in applying fire effects and achieving overall battlefield
superiority. By developing and implementing an open architecture of cutting-edge radio
waveform technology, multiple radio types (e.g. handheld, ground-mobile, airborne, maritime,
etc.) are now allowed to communicate with one another. The ultimate goal is to produce a
family of interoperable, modular, software-defined radios that operate as nodes in a network to
ensure secure wireless communication and networking services for mobile and fixed forces.
These goals extend to U.S. allies, joint and coalition partners, and disaster response personnel.
Knowledge. Information from multiple domains that has been synthesized, through inference or
deduction, into meaning or understanding that was not previously known. This includes:
explicit knowledge, which can be easily articulated, codified, and stored; and tacit knowledge,
which is based on personal experience, expertise, and judgment. Tacit knowledge is more
challenging to capture and share than explicit knowledge.
Knowledge Management (KM). Handling, directing, governing, or controlling of natural
knowledge processes within an organization in order to achieve the goals and objectives of the
organization.
Knowledge Operations (KO). Application and adaptation of Knowledge Management (KM)
into daily AF operations to enable information/decision superiority. KO leverages the
interaction of people, processes, and EIS technologies to capture, store, organize, share, and
control tacit and explicit knowledge, ensuring all mission execution processes have access to
relevant cross-functional information in a collaborative, timely, and contextual manner.
Knowledge Training. Training used to provide a base of knowledge for task performance. It
may also be used in lieu of task performance when the training capability does not exist.
Learning gained through knowledge rather than hands-on experience.
Major Command (MAJCOM). A MAJCOM represents a major Air Force subdivision having
a specific portion of the Air Force mission. Each MAJCOM is directly subordinate to HQ
USAF. MAJCOMs are interrelated and complementary, providing offensive, defensive, and
support elements.
MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFM). Advises the MAJCOM/A6 and staff on 3D1XX
utilization and training issues. Serves as the MAJCOM voting representative during career field
Utilization and Training Workshops. Assists in gathering inputs and data to complete enlisted
grade allocation for Career Progression Group (CPG) reviews. Provides guidance to subordinate
units on 3D1XX personnel issues. Assists with the dissemination of information regarding Air
Force and career field policies, plans, programs, and procedures to subordinate units.
Master Task Listing (MTL). A comprehensive list (100%) of all tasks performed within a
work center and consisting of the current CFETP or AFJQS and locally developed AF Forms
797. Also, should include tasks required for deployment and/or UTC requirements.
Master Training Plan (MTP). Employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all work
center job requirements by using an MTL, providing milestones for task/CDC completion and
prioritizes deployment/UTC tasks, home station training tasks, upgrade tasks, and qualification
tasks.



                                                12
Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFSC. Surveys are conducted by the
Air Force Occupational Measurement Squadron (http://oa.aetc.af.mil/).
On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position) training.
Personally Identifiable Information (PII). Information about an individual that identifies,
links, relates, or is unique to, or describes him or her, e.g., SSN; age; military rank; civilian
grade; marital status; race; salary; home/office phone numbers; other demographic, biometric,
personnel, medical, and financial information, etc.
Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence, or exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade.
Qualification Training. Hands-on, task performance based training designed to qualify airmen
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process and is designed to provide skills training required to do the job.
Records Management. The planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting,
and other managerial activities involved in records creation, maintenance and use, and
disposition in order to achieve adequate and proper documentation of the policies and
transactions of the Federal Government and effective and economical management of agency
operations. (AFPD 33-3)
Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies (such as money, facilities, time, manpower and
equipment) that preclude desired training from being delivered.
Specialized Training Package and COMSEC Qualification Training Package. A composite
of lesson plans, test material, instructions, policy, doctrine, and procedures necessary to conduct
training. These packages are prepared by AETC, validated by CYSS COMSEC policy branch,
and administered by qualified communications security (COMSEC) maintenance personnel.
Specialty Training Requirements Team (STRT). A meeting chaired by the AFCFM with
MAJCOM FMs, AETC Training Managers, Subject Matter Experts (SME), and HQ AETC
Occupational Analysis Division (OAD) in attendance. Typically held three months prior to a
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) to finalize any CFETP changes or enlisted
classification directory descriptions.
Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge that an airman in that specialty may be expected to
perform or to know on the job. Also identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill
level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract between AETC and the functional
user to show which of the overall training requirements for an Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC)
are taught in formal schools and correspondence courses.
Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. It is a fixed
quantity or quality.
System Training Plan (STP). A living document that explains what training is needed for a
system and how to obtain the training.


                                                 13
Task Module (TM). A group of tasks performed together within an AFS that require common
knowledge, skills, and abilities. TMs are identified by an identification code and a statement.
Total Force. All collective components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of the
United States Air Force.
Training Advisory Group (TAG). Chaired by the AFCFM and attended by the MAJCOM,
selected DRU’s, and FOA functional managers. The TAG sets training goals and priorities,
reviews training programs, and evaluates emerging training technologies. The group meets, as
required, to prioritize training product development.
Training Business Area (TBA). A web-based training application that provides Air Force war
fighters with global, real-time visibility into qualifications, certifications, and training status of
communications professionals. TBA supports base, wing, and work center training management
activities by automating business processes and capabilities to eliminate paper-based practices.
The system centralizes management of training task data, provides user access to CFETPs/JQSs,
and increases security through a single AF Portal log on.
Training Capability. The ability of a unit or base to provide training. Authorities consider the
availability of equipment, qualified trainers, and study reference materials, and so on in
determining a unit's training capability.
Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW, TPTs are
more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues examined is greater
than in the U&TW forum.
Training Requirements Analysis (TRA). A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFSC to
be included in the training decision process.
Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-
the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).
Unit Type Code (UTC). A five-character alphanumeric code identifying a specific force
package of personnel and/or equipment. The UTC is the means for linking logistics and
manpower details within a unit type and is used to communicate force data. The UTC represents
a wartime capability designed to fill a valid contingency requirement.
Upgrade Training. Training that leads to the award of a higher skill level.
Utilization and Training Pattern. A depiction of the training provided to, and the jobs
performed by, personnel throughout their tenure within a career field or AFS. There are two
types of patterns: 1) Current pattern, which is based on the training provided to incumbents and
the jobs to which they have been and are assigned; and 2) Alternate pattern, which considers
proposed changes in manpower, personnel, and training policies.
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of the AFCFM, MAJCOM Functional
Managers, subject matter experts (SME), and AETC training personnel that determines career
ladder training requirements. This is an executive decision meeting following the Specialty
Training Requirements Team meeting.
Wartime Tasks. Those tasks which must be taught when courses are accelerated during a
wartime environment. In response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3-level
course in a streamlined training environment. These tasks are only for those career fields that
still need them applied to their schoolhouse tasks.
Workflow. A series of steps necessary for the initiation, tracking, and delivery of services or
outputs with the capability to cut across existing or future organizational boundaries.
                                                  14
Furthermore, web-based workflow products allow electronic coordination, staffing, and task
management of documents and files. They are relational to an electronic version of the Staff
Summary Sheet (SSS) and other AF/DoD forms used for routing/collection of information.
Automation provides the capability to suspense and track correspondence through the workflow
process and provides action officers and document originators status on their packages. Provides
users the capabilities to comply with structured electronic workflow processes and the flexibility
to create/develop ad hoc workflow courses of actions. Future use of standardized EIM tools will
enhance usability and eliminate legacy methods.




                                                15
Section A - General Information
1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP, when used in conjunction with the 3DXXX
Cyberspace Support CFETP provides the information necessary for AFCFMs, MAJCOM
Functional Managers (MFM), commanders, training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan,
develop, manage, and conduct an effective and efficient career field training program. The plan
outlines the initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training that
individual’s in AFSC 3D1X7 should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their
careers. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into
the AF or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. This training is
provided by the 364th Training Squadron (TRS) at Sheppard AFB, TX. Upgrade training
identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, Career Development Course
(CDC) completion, and correspondence courses required for award of the 5-, 7-, or 9-skill level.
Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge required to do
the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected airmen. Proficiency
training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-
the-job training provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the
minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes, some of which are:
1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field-training
program. Also, ensures that established training is provided at the appropriate point in an
individual's career.
1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.
1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the
training medium.
1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact implementation of the desired career field
training program.
2. Use of the CFETP. The CFETP is maintained by the 3D1XX Air Force Career Field
Manager (AFCFM), SAF/CIO A6CF. MAJCOM FMs and AETC review the plan annually to
ensure currency and accuracy and forward recommended changes to the AFCFM. Using the list
of courses in Part II, they determine whether duplicate training exists and take steps to
eliminate/prevent duplicate efforts. Career field training managers at all levels use the plan to
ensure a comprehensive and cohesive training program is available for each individual in the
career ladder.
2.1. AETC training personnel develop/revise formal resident and exportable training based upon
requirements established by the users and documented in the STS. They also develop
procurement and acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified
training.
2.2. MAJCOM FMs ensure their training programs complement the CFETP for mandatory
initial skill and upgrade requirements. They also identify the needed AFJQSs/AFQTPs to
document unique upgrade and continuation training requirements. Requirements are satisfied
through OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courseware/courses. MAJCOM-
developed training to support this AFSC must be included in this plan.




                                                 16
2.3. 81 TRSS Qualification Training Flight (Q-Flight) personnel develop training packages
(AFJQSs/AFQTPs) based on requests submitted by the MAJCOMs and according to the
priorities assigned by the AFCFM.
2.4. Unit level training managers and supervisors manage and control progression through the
career field by ensuring individuals complete the mandatory training requirements for upgrade
specified in this plan and supplemented by their MAJCOM. The list of courses in Part II is used
as a reference for planning continuation or career enhancement training.
2.5. Submit recommended CFETP corrections to the 81 TRSS Q-Flight Customer Service Desk
at 81 TRSS/TSQS, 601 D Street, Keesler AFB MS 39534-2235 or call DSN 597-3343. To
contact electronically send email to: qflight.customer.service@us.af.mil.
2.6. Submit recommended CFETP additions/deletions through your MAJCOM Functional
Manager.
3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority.
MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel coordinate on the career field training
requirements. The AETC training manager initiates an annual review of this document by
AETC and MAJCOM functional managers to ensure the CFETP’s currency and accuracy by
using the list of courses in Part II to eliminate duplicate training.




                                              17
Section B - Career Field Progression and Information
4. Specialty Description. This information supplements that presented in the AFECD.
4.1. Cable and Antenna Systems Apprentice/Journeyman/Craftsman
(3D137/3D157/3D177).
4.1.1. Specialty Summary. Provides command and control (C2) capabilities through
installation, maintenance, fault isolation, and reconstitution of fixed cable and wireless
distribution systems, local area networks (LAN), and wide area networks (WAN) in support of
tactical and strategic operations. Monitors and analyzes performance of underground, buried,
and aerial cable and antenna networks. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 162100.
4.1.2. Duties and Responsibilities:
4.1.2.1. Installs, maintains, reconstitutes, removes, and modifies copper core, coaxial,
waveguide, and fiber optic cable and antenna systems. Climbs antenna support structures and
wooden poles to various heights for maintenance and installation actions on cable and antenna
systems. Installs and maintains dedicated local area network (LAN) and wide area network
(WAN) media distribution systems, including distribution system interior wiring. Uses
drawings, task lists, instructions, and technical data to work on copper core, coaxial, waveguide,
fiber optic cable, and antenna systems. Installs distribution equipment. Terminates copper core
and fiber optic cables on main distribution frames and interface equipment. Operates and
performs maintenance on tools, test equipment, auxiliary equipment, and vehicles such as
backhoes, trenchers, cable trailers, cable reel trucks, and antenna construction vehicles.
4.1.2.2. Locates, repairs, and replaces faulty closures in copper core, waveguide, coaxial, and
fiber optic cable systems. Performs pneumatic troubleshooting to locate faulty splice closures
and demivalve assemblies. Excavates and backfills splice pits. Seals cables, repairs demivalves,
and adjusts pressure transmitters and contactors. Installs and maintains aerial cable support
structures such as pole line and suspension strands. Installs underground cable, uses duct rods,
cleans cable duct systems, prepares the pulling apparatus, and pulls in and temporarily bonds
cable. Installs, maintains, and marks path of buried cable systems.
4.1.2.3. Monitors, analyze, and troubleshoot copper core, waveguide, coaxial, and fiber optic
cable systems. Determines cause of signal deterioration in cable carrying audio, video, digital,
and data transmission. Interprets compressor meter readings and adjusts controls. Installs,
maintains, and repairs or replaces damaged pneumatic and electrical components in cable air
dryers. Uses test equipment to identify copper conductors and optic fibers in cables. Locates
and traces buried cable. Locates and traces leaks in pressurized cable system. Performs
operational checks and preventive maintenance inspections.
4.1.2.4. Maintains communications and computer systems installation records (CSIRs),
maintenance and inspection cable records, and technical orders.
4.1.2.5. Supervises, plans, organizes, and directs cable and antenna installation and maintenance
activities. Develops and improves work methods and procedures related to installation and
maintenance of all cable and antenna systems.
4.1.2.6. Manages, supervises, and performs planning and implementation activities. Manages
implementation and project installation and ensures architecture, configuration, and integration
conformity. Develops, plans, and integrates base communications systems. Serves as advisor at
meetings for facility design, military construction programs, and minor construction planning.
Evaluates base comprehensive plan and civil engineering projects. Monitors status of base civil
engineer work requests. Performs mission review with customers. Controls, manages, and

                                                18
monitors project milestones and funding from inception to completion. Determines adequacy
and correctness of project packages and amendments. Monitors project status and completion
actions. Manages and maintains system installation records, files, and indexes. Evaluates
contracts, wartime, support, contingency, and exercise plans to determine impact on manpower,
equipment and systems.
4.2. Cyber Systems Superintendent (3D190)
4.2.1. Specialty Summary. Manages system analysis and design, programming, systems
operation, and maintenance, resource management and security management. Directs activities for
installing, maintaining, repairing, overhauling, deploying, and modifying cyberspace systems and
equipment platforms to include: voice, data and video client devices, and network infrastructure
systems, radio, satellite, intrusion detection, space systems, telemetry, microwave, and
cryptographic. In addition, manages and directs network and electronic warfare operations in
garrison and at deployed locations by performing duties to develop, sustain, and enhance network
and electromagnetic capabilities to defend national interests from attack and to create effects in the
cyberspace domain to achieve national objectives. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 110100.
4.2.2. Duties and Responsibilities:
4.2.2.1. Plans and organizes maintenance activities. Plans and supervises system installation and
evaluates facilities layout and performance standards. Designs and develops organizational
structures and determines equipment, training, and supplies required for systems implementation
and support. Executes operational plans to ensure positive control of assigned forces. Evaluates
operational readiness of communications equipment, network devices, sensors, intrusion detection,
and related support equipment.
4.2.2.2. Directs activities responsible for system analysis and design, programming, operations and
maintenance, security, systems management, technical support and resource management.
Implements and interprets policies, directives and procedures.
4.2.2.3. Directs maintenance activities. Directs personnel employed in siting, deploying,
inspecting, adjusting, removing, replacing, and repairing communications systems and related
equipment. Prepares and analyzes reports encompassing siting, deploying, maintaining, installing,
repairing and removing communications systems and related equipment. Coordinates activities and
resolves common problems. Directs overhaul and repair of communications systems and related
equipment. Ensures work standards are maintained. Determines extent and economy of repair,
including disposition of malfunctioning equipment.
4.2.2.4. Inspects and evaluates maintenance activities for compliance with directives. Evaluates,
rates and prepares reports on activity effectiveness. Recommends and implements corrective action
for improved methods and procedures. Evaluates effectiveness of equipment usage, systems
performance, customer service, supplies, and system scheduling, processing, and maintenance.
4.2.2.5. Supervises maintenance functions. Resolves problems with installing, maintaining,
repairing, and overhauling systems and equipment. Checks systems and equipment for proper
siting, installation, and serviceability. Establishes local maintenance procedures and policies.
Performs research and development of new systems and equipment.
4.2.2.6. Establishes training requirements. Establishes training programs to meet local knowledge
and certification requirements.
4.2.2.7. Plans, programs, and develops budget inputs to ensure resource availability for operational
requirements.


                                                  19
4.2.2.8. Manages plans, implementation, and development functions. Helps functional users define
requirements. Supervises functional user requirements translation into automated systems
capabilities. Organizes teams that use methodologies to meet mission requirements. Supervises test
and evaluation efforts to determine performance. Organizes and participates in mission
implementation and conversion. Ensures continued interface between functional users and
programming and operations personnel. Ensures compliance with standards for systems
documentation.
4.3. Chief Enlisted Manager. This specialty “caps” at the Chief Master Sergeant level with
those specialties that came up through the Cyber Support Systems Specialist (3D1XX) career
ladders. Personnel attaining the rank of CMSgt are assigned broad ranging duties in directing
and managing diverse communication functions.
4.4. MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM) for Cyber Systems. (AFI 36-2201, Air Force
Training Program; AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officers and Enlisted); Air
Force Enlisted Classification Directory). Appointed by the MAJCOM Director of
Communications (A6) or equivalent. Advises the MAJCOM/A6 and staff on 3D1XX utilization
and training issues. Serves as the MAJCOM voting representative during career field Utilization
and Training Workshops. Assists in gathering inputs and data to complete enlisted grade
allocation for Career Progression Group (CPG) reviews. Provides guidance to subordinate units
on 3D1XX personnel issues. Assists with the dissemination of information regarding Air Force
and career field policies, plans, programs, and procedures to subordinate units. Assists in
identifying qualified subject matter experts to help with the development of Specialty
Knowledge Tests (SKT) and the Career Development Course (CDC). Acts as the primary
MAJCOM reviewer on CDC training and classification waiver request packages. Coordinates
on all MAJCOM 3D1XX staffing and manpower issues.
4.5. Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) for the Cyber Systems Career Field.
(AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development; AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program; AFI 36-
2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officers and Enlisted); Air Force Enlisted Classification
Directory). Appointed by the Air Force Chief, Information Dominance and Chief Information
Officer (SAF/CIO A6). Advisor to the SAF/CIO A6 on all matters affecting the Cyber
Operations career fields. Communicates directly with MFMs and AETC Training Managers to
disseminate Air Force and career field policies and program requirements. Ensures development,
implementation, and maintenance of the CFETP. Serves as the chairperson for the
STRT/U&TW and uses it as a forum to determine and manage career field education and
training requirements. Possesses final authority to waive CFETP requirements, including CDCs.
Assists AETC training managers and course supervisors with planning, developing,
implementing, and maintaining all AFSC-specific training courses. Assists in the development
of AFSC-related manpower standards.
5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
superintendent skill levels play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, manage and
conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP and the
3D1X7 Education and Training Path table will ensure individuals receive viable training at
appropriate points in their careers. The training listed in this plan is specific to the AFSC 3D1X7
and must be used in conjunction with the common core training identified in the 3DXXX
CFETP.
5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. The Cable and Antenna Systems Apprentice Course, serves as the
initial skills course and must be completed for the award of AFSC 3D137.

                                                20
5.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Upgrade training consists of: (1) completing Cable and Antenna
Systems CDC 3D157; (2) completing all core tasks identified for 5-level; (3) completing all 5-
level requirements outlined in the 3DXXX Cyberspace Support CFETP; (5) meeting time-in-
training requirements IAW AFI 36-2201; and (6) obtaining supervisor recommendation and
commander approval for the award of AFSC 3D157.
5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. Upgrade training consists of: (1) completing all core tasks identified
for 7-level; (2) completing all 7-level requirements outlined in the 3DXXX Cyberspace Support
CFETP; (3) meeting time-in-training requirements as identified in AFI 36-2201; and (4)
obtaining supervisor recommendation and commander approval for the award of AFSC 3D177.
5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. 3D190 skill level requirements are listed in the 3DXXX
Cyberspace Support (Common Core) CFETP.




6. Training Decisions. This CFETP was developed to encapsulate an entire spectrum of
training requirements for the Cable/Antenna Systems career field, using a building block
approach (simple to complex). Included in this spectrum is the strategy of when, where, and
how to meet the training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce
duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training.
6.1. Proficiency Training. This training is job qualification for an assigned duty position.
Additional qualification training becomes necessary when personnel transfer to another duty
position, the unit mission changes, a new personnel program comes on board, or any time
changes in techniques or procedures occur.
6.1.1. The 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) develops AFJQSs/AFQTPs to support tasks relating to
communications-electronics and communications-computer systems, functions and duties.
                                               21
Completion of AFJQSs/AFQTPs is mandatory by duty position for personnel in upgrade or
qualification training.
6.1.2. CDC development is restricted to six volumes, two hundred pages each. The first
volumes will be common to all 3D1XX AFSCs, followed by the respective AFSC-specific
volumes. The following table outlines 5-level CDC contents 3D1X7.
                                              3DX5X
   VOLUME 1                   Support to the Cyberspace Mission
   VOLUME 2                   Information Technology Concepts & Maintenance Practices
                                              3D157
   VOLUME 1                   Introduction and Antennas
   VOLUME 2                   Cable
   VOLUME 3                   Testing, Fiber, and Network

6.4. Commercial Certifications. Below are some available commercial certifications for 3D1X7
technicians. An “X” in the DANTES column indicates that testing may be completed at the base
education office. Tuition Assistance (TA) pays for only one certification during an entire career.
See the local base education office for more information. The Department of Veterans Affairs
(VA) has licensing and certification benefits that can be used, including the Montgomery GI Bill.
Visit http://www.gibill.va.gov/pamphlets/lcweb.htm for more information.
             Certifications               Criteria                        Website                 DANTES
Electronics Technician Association
(ETA)
• Associate CET
• Data Cabling Competencies
   o Data Cabling Installer
Certification**                       • Experience
                                                            http://www.eta-i.org/                   X
• Fiber Optics Competencies           • Written Exam
   o Fiber Optics Installer**
   o Fiber Optics Technician**
   o Fiber Optics Design
   o Fiber Optics Tech – Outside
Plant
National Association of Radio and
                                      • Education
Telecommunications Engineers
                                      • Experience
(NARTE)                                                                                             X
                                      • References          http://www.narte.org/h/telecom.asp.
• Junior Telecommunications Tech
                                      • Written Exam
• Senior Telecommunications Tech
• Master Telecommunications Tech
Building Industry Consulting
Service                               • Written Exam
International, Inc. (BICSI)           • Hands-On            http://www.bicsi.org/
• Commercial Installer, Level 1       • OJT tasks
• Commercial Installer, Level 2
• Technician Level
**Offered by 364th TRS during initial and supplemental training.
7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Enrollment in CCAF
occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity for all
enlisted members to obtain an Associate in Applied Science degree. In order to be awarded the
CCAF degree, all academic requirements must be completed before the student separates from
                                                22
the Air Force, retires, or is commissioned as an officer. In addition to its associate’s degree
program, CCAF offers the following:
7.1. CCAF Instructor Certification. The College offers the CCAF Instructor Certification to
instructors teaching full time in a CCAF affiliated school. To qualify, instructors must complete
a 3 semester hour Instructor Methodology course, a 12 semester hour Teaching Internship, have
one year teaching experience from date of Teaching Internship completion, hold an associate or
higher degree, complete at least 1,000 hours of documented practical experience teaching a
CCAF course(s), and be recommended by their commander/commandant.
7.2. The Electronic Systems Technology (4VHP) program applies to this career field.
7.2.1. Degree Requirements: Individuals must hold the 5-skill level at the time of program
completion.
                                                                                                   Semester hours
Technical Education.......................................................................................24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ............................................ 6
Physical Education ......................................................................................... 4
General Education ..........................................................................................15
Program Electives ..........................................................................................15
Total                                                                                                .......64
7.2.2. Technical Education (24 semester hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical
Core subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours will be applied
from Technical Core/Technical Elective subjects and courses.
7.2.3. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 semester hours): Professional military
education and/or civilian management courses. See CCAF General Catalog for application of
civilian management courses.
7.2.4. Physical Education (4 semester hours): Satisfied upon completion of basic military
training.
7.2.5. General Education (15 semester hours): Courses must meet the criteria for application of
courses to the General Education requirement and be in agreement with the definitions of
applicable General Education subjects/courses as outlined in the CCAF General Catalog.
7.2.6. General Education Mobile (GEM): GEM is a partnership between CCAF and civilian
academic institutions to offer general education courses to meet CCAF A.A.S. degree
requirements. Courses are offered via distance learning which reduces CCAF educational
impact of deployments, PCS and family commitments.
7.2.7. Program Elective (15 semester hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education courses, including natural
science courses meeting General Education requirement application criteria. Nine semester
hours of CCAF degree applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may
be applied.
7.3. The Professional Manager Certification (PMC): The College offers a professional credential
that formally recognizes an individual’s advanced level of education and experience in
leadership and management, as well as professional accomplishments. The program provides a
structured professional development track that supplements Enlisted Professional Military
Education (EPME) and Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP).


                                                               23
7.3.1. The PMC is primarily designed for Air Force SNCO’s. However, any enlisted Airmen
who meet all program requirements may be nominated and awarded the PMC. Once an
individual retires, separates or is commissioned, they are no longer eligible for the PMC.
7.3.2. PMC Requirements:
7.3.2.1. Award of 7 skill-level (Craftsman) or higher
7.3.2.2. Complete ALS or equivalent EPME (In-residence or correspondence)
7.3.2.3. Complete NCOA or equivalent EPME (In-residence or correspondence)
7.3.2.4. Complete SNCOA or equivalent EPME (In-residence or correspondence)
7.3.2.5. Complete 30 semester hours of leadership/management coursework.
7.3.2.5.1. At least 6 semester hours of leadership/management coursework
must be completed from an accredited college or university by testing credit
(CLEP/DSST/Excelsior)
7.3.2.5.2. Civilian courses must emphasize the fundamentals of leadership and/or management
of human resources. Examples: Principles of Management, Personnel Management, Human
Resource Management, Principles of Supervision, and Organizational behavior.
7.3.2.6. A copy of the civilian college or university transcript reflecting completed
leadership/management courses is required.
7.3.2.7. Credit by earned completion of EPME is applied toward the 30 semester hour
requirement.
7.3.3. Awarded CCAF degree
7.3.4. Recommended for certification by the unit commander or commandant.
7.4. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a competency
based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels:
Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman (Supervisor), or Master Craftsman (Manager). All are
transcribed on the CCAF transcript.
7.5. See the current CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied
Science in Electronic Systems Technology. The catalog is available at your education office, or
from http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/.
7.6. Additional off-duty education is highly encouraged. Individuals desiring to become an
AETC instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A degreed faculty is necessary
to maintain CCAF’s accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                                24
8. Career Field Path. The following summarizes career progression and personnel allocations
across the career ladder. 3D0XX and 3D1XX personnel maintain their individual AFSC
identifiers through the rank of MSgt. Upon promotion to SMSgt, 3D0X1/3D0X2/3D0X3
/3D0X4 merge to become a 3D090; AFSCs 3D1X1/3D1X2/3D1X3/3D1X4/3D1X7 merge to
become a 3D190. Specific demographic information is available on the Web at
http://wwa.afpc.randolph.af.mil/demographics/.




                                             25
                                         3D1X7, CABLE AND ANTENNA SYSTEMS
                                           EDUCATION AND TRAINING PATH


                          EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                          AVERAGE SEW ON TIME
                              REQUIREMENTS                                                                  AND COMMENTS
BASIC MILITARY TRAINING SCHOOL (BMTS)
APPRENTICE TECHNICAL SCHOOL (3-SKILL LEVEL)                                                              Amn ................... 6 months
........................................................................................ …….Mandatory.
UPGRADE TO JOURNEYMAN (5-SKILL LEVEL)                                                                    A1C ................... 16 months
Minimum 12 months OJT training (9 months for retrainees). Complete
5-Level CDCs ................................................................. …….Mandatory.
Specific AFJQSs/AFQTPs for equipment at assigned location by duty                                        SrA..................... 3 years
position............................................................................ Mandatory.          Earliest ............... 28 Months
CS Management and Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs for various unit level                                           HYT ................... 8 years
duties. .............................................................................. …….Mandatory.
Complete 3DXXX CFETP requirements for 5-Skill Level
………………………………………………………………..Mandatory.
AETC Supplemental training courses as determined by MAJCOM
........................................................................................ ………Optional.
Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree
........................................................................................ ………Optional.
AIRMAN LEADERSHIP SCHOOL (ALS)                                                                           TRAINER: Must meet trainer
                                                                                                         eligibility requirements as per
Attendance is limited to SSgt selectees or those attaining 48 months
                                                                                                         AFI 36-2201
Total Active Federal Military Service (TAFMS) and who have not been
selected for promotion to SSgt. Completion is mandatory before
assuming the rank of SSgt. ANG/AFRC may complete by
correspondence course. ................................................... …….Mandatory




                                                                   26
                                         3D1X7, CABLE AND ANTENNA SYSTEMS
                                           EDUCATION AND TRAINING PATH


                          EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                           AVERAGE SEW ON TIME
                              REQUIREMENTS                                                                   AND COMMENTS
UPGRADE TO CRAFTSMAN (7-SKILL LEVEL)                                                                     SSgt ................... 4.51 years
Minimum rank of SSgt. 12 months OJT training (6 months for                                               Earliest ............... 3 years
retrainees). Completion of 7-level CDCs, if available.                                                   HYT ................... 15 years
Must be 7-level to sew on TSgt………………………………Mandatory.
                                                                                                         TSgt ................... 10.78 years
Completion of the E6ACW3DX7X 01AA Cyberspace Career                                                      Earliest ............... 5 years
Advancement Course……………………………………...….Mandatory.                                                          HYT ................... 20 years
CS Management and Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs for various unit level
duties………………………………………………………….Mandatory.                                                                  CERTIFIER: Must meet
                                                                                                         certifier eligibility requirements
Complete 3DXXX CFETP requirements for 7-Skill Level
                                                                                                         as per AFI 36-2201
………………………………………………………………..Mandatory.
AETC Supplemental training courses as determined by MAJCOM
........................................................................................ ………Optional.
SNCOA Correspondence Course (TSgt) ........................ ………Optional.
(2 yrs TIG/NCOA completion)
Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree……….Desired.
NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER ACADEMY (NCOA).                                                                  MSgt .................. 15.27 years
Completion is mandatory before assuming the rank of MSgt                                                 Earliest ............... 8 years
........................................................................................ …….Mandatory.   HYT ................... 24 years

Active duty attendance is limited to TSgt or MSgt Selectee.

ANG/AFRC TSgt or MSgt may attend in-residence or may complete by
correspondence course.
Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree..Highly Desired.




                                                                   27
                                        3D1X7, CABLE AND ANTENNA SYSTEMS
                                          EDUCATION AND TRAINING PATH


                          EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                        AVERAGE SEW ON TIME
                              REQUIREMENTS                                                                AND COMMENTS
USAF SENIOR NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER ACADEMY                                                            SMSgt ................ 18.89 years
(SNCOA)                                                                                                Earliest ............... 11 years
                                                                                                       HYT ................... 26 years
Attendance is limited to SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee.
Completion is mandatory before assuming the rank of SMSgt
……………………………………….…………………….…Mandatory.
SNCOA Correspondence Course.................................... …….Optional.
ANG/AFRC may complete by correspondence course. ANG/AFRC
MSgts may attend in-residence. ...................................... ……Mandatory.
E6ACW3DX9X 00AA CYBERSPACE SUPERINTENDENT COURSE
Attendance is limited to CMSgt, SMSgt and SMSgt selectees.
Completion is mandatory within one year of selection to SMSgt
………………………………………………………….…….Mandatory.
UPGRADE TO SUPERINTENDENT (9-SKILL LEVEL)
Awarded upon sew on of SMSgt. ................................... ……Mandatory.
Complete 3DXXX CFETP requirements for 9-Skill Level
………………………………………………………………..Mandatory.
CS Management and Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs for various unit level
duties. .............................................................................. …….Mandatory.
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)                                                                           CMSgt ............... 22.90 years
                                                                                                       Earliest ............... 14 years
                                                                                                       HYT ................... 30 years

NOTE 1: Published sew-on times are Air Force averages. Refer to the Air Force Personnel
Center’s homepage to determine career field specific information: https://gum-
crm.csd.disa.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/13016.
NOTE 2: See Part II, Sections C and D for a list of AFJQSs/AFQTPs and AETC supplemental
training.
NOTE 3: All core/duty position tasks must be completed prior to upgrade.




                                                                 28
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements
9. Purpose. The various skill levels in the career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements for each skill level in the Cable and Antenna Systems career field of the
Cyber Support Systems career ladder. They are stated in broad, general terms and establish the
standards of performance. Core tasks, knowledge items, and skill requirements for this specialty
are identified in the STS, COL, CDCs, AFJQSs/AFQTPs, etc. Completion of the mandatory
3-level skill awarding course, CDCs, and applicable AFJQSs/AFQTPs define the Air Force core
tasks for this specialty. NOTE: The 3DXXX Cyberspace Support CFETP lists additional skill-
level requirements which are required by all 3DXXX AFSCs.
10. Specialty Qualification Requirements.
10.1. Apprentice (3-Level) Training.

 KNOWLEDGE             Knowledge of: Wire Transmission Principles; Electrical and Light Wave
                       Communications on Aerial, Buried, and Underground Cable Systems;
                       Inter/Intra Building Distribution Systems; Cable Pressure and Alarm Systems;
                       Antenna Fundamentals, including Antenna Theory and Principles of Rotators,
                       Amplifiers, and Control Cables; Cable/Antenna Installation Procedures,
                       including Copper/Fiber Optic/Coaxial Cables, Waveguide Splicing, and Repair
                       and Maintenance Techniques of Radomes; Locating Cable Faults, Cable
                       Testing Procedures, Methods of Sealing Cables, and Climbing (Personal
                       Protective Equipment (PPE), Methods, and Techniques)
 EDUCATION             Completion of high school is mandatory.
                       Additional courses in Mathematics, Physics, or Information Technologies (IT)
                       are Desirable.
 TRAINING              Completion of the Communications Cable and Antenna Systems Apprentice
                       course, J3ABR3D137 0A2B (PDS Code O3K) (See Part II, Section B for
                       Course Objective List)
 EXPERIENCE            None required
 OTHER                 For award and retention of AFSC 3D132, must maintain an Air Force Network
                       License according to AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security (COMPUSEC).
                       Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and
                       Standards.
                       The ability to obtain a government license according to AFI 24-301,
                       Vehicle Operations.
                       Normal depth perception and normal gait and balance are mandatory
                       for entry, award, and retention of this AFSC as defined in AFI 48-123.
                       Physical ability to perform climbing duties and freedom from fear of
                       heights and claustrophobia is mandatory for entry, award, and retention
                       of this AFSC.
                       Eligibility for a Secret security clearance according to AFI 31-501, Personnel
                       Security Program Management, is mandatory for award and retention of this
                       skill level.
 IMPLEMENTATION        Attendance at the Communications Cable and Antenna Systems Apprentice
                       course is mandatory for award of the 3-skill level unless waived by the
                       AFCFM.
* Refer to AFECD for most current requirements




                                                 29
10.2. Journeyman (5-Level) Training.

KNOWLEDGE           All 3D137 Knowledge Qualifications apply to the 3D157 Requirements
                    Completion of the 3D157 Career Development Course
                    Knowledge of: Installation and Maintenance Management Functions Related
                    to Oxygen Deficiency, Oxygen Enrichment, Toxic And Explosive Gases,
                    Working Aloft, Rescue Procedures for Aerial and Underground Environments
                    and Capabilities, Limitations, Operations and Functional Use of Basic Cable
                    and Antenna Systems, Specialized Equipment and Associated Hardware
TRAINING            Completion of all 5-level requirements outlined in the 3DXXX Cyberspace
                    Support CFETP.
                    No mandatory AETC training courses are required for upgrade.
EXPERIENCE          Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D137
                    Experience Performing Installing, Maintaining, Testing, Calibrating, or
                    Repairing Cable and Antenna Systems, Associated Communications and
                    Transmission Lines.
                    Completion of all STS core tasks
                    Completion of applicable AFJQSs/AFQTPs
                    Completion of all local tasks assigned
OTHER               For award and retention of AFSC 3D132, must maintain an Air Force Network
                    License according to AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security (COMPUSEC).
                    Normal depth perception and normal gait and balance are mandatory
                    for entry, award, and retention of this AFSC as defined in AFI 48-123.
                    Physical ability to perform climbing duties and freedom from fear of
                    heights and claustrophobia is mandatory for entry, award, and retention
                    of this AFSC.
                    Eligibility for a Secret security clearance according to AFI 31-501, Personnel
                    Security Program Management, is mandatory for award and retention of this
                    skill level
IMPLEMENTATION      Entry into formal journeyman upgrade training is accomplished once
                    individuals are assigned to their first duty station.
                    Qualification training is initiated anytime individuals are assigned duties for
                    which they are not qualified.
                    Use CDCs, CBTs, and AFJQSs/AFQTPs concurrently to obtain the necessary
                    qualification for refresher and cross-utilization training.
* Refer to AFECD for most current requirements




                                              30
10.3. Craftsman (7-Level) Training.

 KNOWLEDGE           All 3D157 Knowledge Qualifications apply to the 3D177 Requirements.
                     Project Management
 TRAINING            Completion of the E6ACW3DX7X 01AA Cyberspace Career Advancement
                     Course is mandatory.
                     Completion of all 7-level requirements outlined in the 3DXXX Cyberspace
                     Support CFETP
 EXPERIENCE          Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D157
                     Experience Performing or Supervising Functions such as Engineering,
                     Installing, Repairing, Overhauling, or Modifying Cable and Antenna Systems,
                     Associated Communications and Transmission Lines. Performs Project
                     Management, Quality Assurance, and Controls Configuration/Documentation
                     of Cable/Antenna Systems
                     Completion of all STS core tasks
                     Completion of applicable AFJQSs/AFQTPs
                     Completion of all local tasks assigned
 OTHER               For award and retention of AFSC 3D132, must maintain an Air Force Network
                     License according to AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security (COMPUSEC).
                     Normal depth perception and normal gait and balance are mandatory
                     for entry, award, and retention of this AFSC as defined in AFI 48-123.
                     Physical ability to perform climbing duties and freedom from fear of
                     heights and claustrophobia is mandatory for entry, award, and retention
                     of this AFSC.
                     Eligibility for a Secret security clearance according to AFI 31-501, Personnel
                     Security Program Management, is mandatory for award and retention of this
                     skill level
 IMPLEMENTATION      Entry into OJT is initiated when individuals obtain the necessary rank and skill
                     level.
                     Qualification training is initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties for
                     which they are not qualified.
                     Use CDCs and AFJQSs/AFQTPs concurrently to obtain the necessary
                     qualification for refresher and cross-utilization training.
* Refer to AFECD for most current requirements.




                                               31
10.4. Superintendent (9-Level) Training

 KNOWLEDGE              Techniques and Procedures of Systems Analysis and Design
                        Interpretation of Wiring and Logic Diagrams
                        Project Management
                        Software Methodology
                        System Operation and Maintenance
                        System and Equipment Capability, Capacity, and Logic
                        Performance Measurement, Security, and Resource Management
 TRAINING               Completion of E6ACW3DX9X 00AA Cyberspace Superintendant Course.
                        Mandatory.
 EXPERIENCE             Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D17X
                        Managing or Directing Functions such as Installing, Maintaining, Repairing, or
                        Modifying the Various Systems and Related Equipment of the Feeder
                        Specialties.
 OTHER                  For award and retention of AFSC 3D132, must maintain an Air Force Network
                        License according to AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security (COMPUSEC).
                        Completion of and eligibility for Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI)
                        according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management is
                        mandatory for award and retention of this skill level.
 IMPLEMENTATION         Entry into OJT is initiated when individuals are selected for the rank of SMSgt.
                        Qualification training is initiated anytime individuals are assigned duties for
                        which they are not qualified.

10.5. Training Sources.
10.5.1. AFSC specific training – 364 TRS, Sheppard AFB, TX at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.
10.5.2. CDCs 3D157 are available for upgrade purposes through the unit training manager. For
individual qualification and cross-utilization training, CDCs are ordered through the unit training
office.
10.5.3. AFJQSs/AFQTPs are Air Force publications and are mandatory for use by personnel in
upgrade or qualification training. They are developed by the 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight), Keesler
AFB, MS and may be downloaded from
https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/20946/AFKN_Docs/Forms/AllItems.aspx. Procedures for requesting
development of AFJQSs/AFQTPs are contained in AFI 33-154, Air Force On-the-Job Training
Products for Cyberspace Support Enlisted Specialty Training. AFJQSs/AFQTPs are listed in
Part II of this CFETP.




                                                  32
Section D - Resource Constraints
11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as part numbers,
national stock numbers, number of units required, cost, manpower, etc. Included are narrative
explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each
constraint has on training. Finally, this section includes actions required, OPR and target
completion date. Resource constraints will be, at a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.
12. Apprentice (3-Level) Training.
12.1. Constraints: None.
12.1.1. Impact. N/A
12.1.2. Resources Required. N/A
12.1.3. Action Required. N/A
12.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date. N/A
13. Journeyman (5-Level) Training.
13.1. Constraints: None.
13.1.1. Impact. N/A
13.1.2. Resources Required. N/A
13.1.3. Action Required. N/A
13.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date. N/A
14. Craftsman (7-Level) Training.
14.1. Constraints: None.
14.1.1. Impact. N/A
14.1.2. Resources Required. N/A
14.1.3. Action Required. N/A
14.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date. N/A
15. Superintendent (9-Level) Training.
15.1. Constraints: None
15.1.1. Impact N/A
15.1.2. Resources Required N/A
15.1.3. Action Required N/A
15.1.4. OPR/Target Completion Date N/A
Section E - Transition Training Guide
There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                33
PART II
Section A - Specialty Training Standard
1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for the 3-
level class beginning 25 August 2014.
2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:
2.1. Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airman to perform duties in the 3-, 5-,
and 7-skill level. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies by skill level, specialty-wide training
requirements. NOTE: Core tasks are minimum task training requirements for upgrade.
2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document
technician qualifications, if available. For initial certification or transcribing documentation
complete the columns in accordance with AFI 36-2201.
2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. See the Air
University Catalog maintained at https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/AE-ED-02-
37/AFKN_Docs/Forms/AllItems.aspx?RootFolder=%2Fsites%2FAE%2DED%2D02%2D37%2
FAFKN%5FDocs%2Fe%2DCDC%5FCDC%20Catalog for current CDC listings.
2.4. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the tasks, knowledge, and proficiency
levels referenced in paragraph 2. Columns are marked with a proficiency code to indicate
subjects taught. An X in the proficiency code column indicates a lack of student man years and
instructor resources. Trainees without prerequisites specified in Education and Training Course
Announcement (ETCA) cannot be expected to meet proficiency levels indicated.
2.5. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in
Automated training record and used according to AFI 36-2201.
2.6. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT) are developed at the AETC Airmen
Advancement Division by senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields.
The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team
members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study
references listed in the Enlisted Promotion References and Requirements Catalog (EPRRC).
Individual responsibilities are listed in chapter 1 of AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel
Testing System. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Reserve Forces.




                                                 34
3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality of
AETC training. A Training Feedback Hotline has been installed for the supervisors'
convenience. For a quick response to concerns, call our Training Feedback Hotline at DSN 736-
2574 or write us at 364th TRS/TRR 511 9th Ave, Ste 2, Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2338.
Reference this STS and identify the specific area of concern (paragraph, training standard
element, etc.).

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
OFFICIAL                                   MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           Chief, Information Dominance and
                                             Chief Information Officer

Attachments:
1. Qualitative Requirements
2. Specialty Training Standard (STS) 3D1X7




                                             35
                                              PREFACE
NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating technical references to identify current references
pending STS revision. Locate current Air Force publications at:
     DOD Issuances and OSD Administrative Instructions at
     http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/
     Air Force Publications at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
     AFSSIs at https://private.afnic.af.mil/ia/PolicyDocuments.cfm
     DISA Circulars and Instructions at
     https://www.disa.mil/about/policy-publication-information
     Technical Orders (TO) at https://www.my.af.mil/etims/ETIMS/index.jsp
     Online Reference Ware and CBTs: https://www.my.af.mil/faf/FAF/fafHome.jsp (Under
     AF e-Learning)
NOTE 2: Knowledge and/or performance tasks are defined in the AFJQS. AFJQS items set the
standard for qualification and certification and are mandatory for use in conjunction with this
STS when applicable to the duty position.
NOTE 3: All objectives are trained during wartime.
NOTE 4: Commanders, supervisors and trainers will use TBA to track and manage training for
all 3DXXX personnel.
NOTE 5: When an AFJQS is loaded into TBA, AFJQS task numbering will vary from the STS.
The numbering scheme is defined by your work center specific master training plan.
NOTE 6: Third person certification is not required for all Cyber Support Specialist personnel.
However, members (to include civilians and contractors) assigned to crew positions are still
required position in accordance with Stan/Eval procedures.
NOTE 7: All tasks in this training standard that are taught in the initial skills course directed to
utilize a construction vehicle, cable reel truck, or cable reel trailer are to be accomplished with an
instructor operating the vehicle.
NOTE 8: Senior NCO’s in the 3DXXX AFSCs are not required to have an Individual Training
Plan (ITP) with the following exceptions: personnel in upgrade training status, or performing
equipment maintenance as part of primary duties. Unit Commanders can require MSgt's with
UTC tasks to have an ITP.




                                                 36
                                                                                                Qualitative Requirements


                                     THIS BLOCK IS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY

                                                Personal Data – Privacy Act of 1974

PRINTED NAME OF TRAINEE (Last, First, Middle Initial)                      INITIALS (Written)   LAST 4 OF SSN



                        PRINTED NAME OF TRAINER AND CERTIFYING OFFICIAL AND WRITTEN INITIALS


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I




                                                               37                                               Attachment 1
                                                                                                                 Qualitative Requirements


                                                        PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
-             SCALE     DEFINITION: The individual
              VALUE
                1       Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (EXTREMELY LIMITED)
Performance
   Levels




                2       Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)
    Task




                3       Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)
                4       Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
                a       Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)
Knowledge
  Levels




                b       Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)
  *Task




                c       Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed. (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
                d       Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCED THEORY)
                A       Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)
Knowledge
 **Subject

   Levels




                B       Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (PRINCIPLES)
                C       Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)
                D       Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)
                                                                   Explanations
*      A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific
       task. (Example: b and 1b)
**     A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for
       a subject common to several tasks. This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in
       the course or CDC.
(-)    This mark is used alone in Proficiency Codes Course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in
       resources.
NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.
(-)    When this code is used in the Core & Wartime Tasks Column it indicates that the qualification is a local determination.
(5) When this code is used in the Core & Wartime Tasks Column it indicates the CFM has mandated this task as a core 5-level
    requirement. The training to satisfy this requirement is either provided through OJT, CBTs, CDCs, or a combination.
(7) When this code is used in the Core & Wartime Tasks Column it indicates the CFM has mandated this task as a core 7-level
    requirement. The training to satisfy this requirement is either provided through OJT, CBTs, CDCs, or a combination.




                                                                        38                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                        3D1X7 STS




                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C          D          E
                              WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
1. CABLE AND
ANTENNA SYSTEMS
CAREER FIELD
TR: AFECD, AFH 33-337;
AFIs 10-401, 33-115 Vols
1, 2 & 3; 36-2101; 3D1X7
CFETP; TO 00-33A-1001-
WA-1
1.1. Structure                   -                                                         -        -        -       -
1.2. Progression within Air
Force Specialty Code             -                                                         -        -        -       -
3D1X7
1.3. Read CFETP 3D1X7            5                                                         -        -        -       -
1.4. Air Force Specialty
Code 3D1X7
1.4.1. Explain Duties of
                                 5                                                         -        A        -       -
AFSC
1.4.2. Explain
                                 5                                                         -        B        -       -
Responsibilities of AFSC
1.4.3. Explain AFSC Core
                                 -                                                         -        A        -       -
Competencies
1.4.4. Explain
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Qualifications
2. SAFETY/RISK
MANAGEMENT (RM)
TR: AFIs 90-802, 91-202,
91-203, 91-302
2.1. Air Force
Consolidated Occupational
                                 5                                                         A        A        -       -
Safety Instructions for
AFSC
2.2. Hazards of the AFSC         5                                                         A        A        -       -
2.3. Practice Safety
Precautions:
2.3.1. Maintenance
                                 5                                                         2b       -        -       -
Actions
2.3.2. Energized
                                 5                                                         2b       -        -       -
Equipment
2.3.3. High Voltage
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Equipment
3. UTILIZE
PUBLICATIONS AND
DIRECTIVES
TR: AFIs 33-Series; AF
Records Distribution
System; http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/
3.1. Use Publications
                                 5                                                         2b       -        -       -
When Performing Work
4. TEST EQUIPMENT/
SPECIALIZED TOOLS
TR: TO 33K-1-100,
Applicable Test Equipment
Technical Orders and
Technical Publications




                                                         39                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                         3D1X7 STS



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                             A       B        C          D          E
                               WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
4.1. Identify Principles,
Capabilities, Limitations of
the Following Test
Equipment:
4.1.1. Oscilloscope               -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.1.2. Multimeter                 5                                                         A        B        -       -
4.1.3. Optical Time
Domain Reflectometer              5                                                         A        B        -       -
(OTDR)
4.1.4. Time Domain
                                  5                                                         A        B        -       -
Reflectometer (TDR)
4.1.5. Bit Error Rate Test
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
(BERT) Set
4.1.6. Frequency Counter          -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.1.7. Network Analyzer           -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.1.8. Protocol Analyzer          -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.1.9. Spectrum Analyzer          -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.1.10. Power Meter               -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.1.11. RF Signal
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Generator
4.1.12. Insulation Test Set       -                                                         A        B        -       -
4.1.13. Megaohmeter               -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.1.14. Built-In Test
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Equipment
4.1.15. Wattmeter                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.1.16. Dummy Load                -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.1.17. Earth Ground
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Tester
4.1.18. Cable and Fault
                                  -                                                         A        B        -       -
Locator
4.1.19. Audible Test Set          -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.1.20. Premise wire
                                  -                                                         A        B        -       -
Tester
4.1.21. Subscriber Loop
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Analyzer
4.2. Use the Following
Test Equipment:
4.2.1. Oscilloscope               -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.2.2. Multimeter                 5                                                         2b       -        -       -
4.2.3. OTDR                       5                                                         2b       -        -       -
4.2.4. TDR                        5                                                         2b       -        -       -
4.2.5. BERT Set                   -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.2.6. Frequency Counter          -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.2.7. Network Analyzer           -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.2.8. Protocol Analyzer          -                                                         -        -        -       -



                                                          40                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                        3D1X7 STS



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C          D          E
                              WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
4.2.9. Spectrum Analyzer         -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.2.10. Power Meter              -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.2.11. RF Signal
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Generator
4.2.12. Insulation Test Set      -                                                         2b       -        -       -
4.2.13. Megaohmeter              -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.2.14. Built-in Test
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Equipment
4.2.15. Wattmeter                -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.2.16. Dummy Load               -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.2.17. Earth Ground
Tester (Ground                   -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Resistance)
4.2.18. Cable and Fault
                                 -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Locator
4.2.19. Audible Test Set         -                                                         2b       -        -       -
4.2.20. Premise Wire
                                 -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Tester
4.2.21. Subscriber Loop
                                 -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Analyzer
4.3. Identify and use the
Following Specialized
Tools
4.3.1. Amphenol Tool             -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.3.2. Tone Generator            5                                                         -        B        -       -
4.3.3. Inductive Amplifier       5                                                         -        B        -       -
4.3.4. Local Area Network
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
(LAN) Tester
4.3.5. Light Source              -                                                         -        B        -       -
4.3.6. Transit                   -                                                         -        -        -       -
4.3.7. Fusion Splicer            -                                                         2b       -        -       -
4.3.8. Fiber Optic Source
                                 -                                                         2b       -        -       -
and Meter
4.3.9. Pressure Testing
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Gauge
4.3.10. Multigas Monitor         5                                                         2b       -        -       -
4.3.11. Modular Splicing
                                 -                                                         2b       -        -       -
System
4.3.12. Tension Meter            -                                                         2b       -        -       -
4.3.13. Receiver and
                                 -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Exploring Coil
4.3.14. Headset                  -                                                         2b       -        -       -




                                                         41                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                        3D1X7 STS



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C          D          E
                              WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
5. STANDARD
PRACTICES
TR: TOs 00-25-234, 31-
10-7, 31-10-11, 31-10-13,
31-10-24, 31W-1-102, 31-
141-1 (V1), 31W2-4-330
series and 31W3 10-20;
AFI 32-1065, MIL-STD
2000A, American Public
Works Association Policy
and American National St
5.1. State Facts Related to
the Following Practices:
5.1.1. Installation              5                                                         A        A        -       -
5.1.2. Configuration             5                                                         A        A        -       -
5.1.3. Interconnection           5                                                         A        A        -       -
5.1.4. Inspection                -                                                         A        A        -       -
5.2. Identify Underground
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
Utilities
5.3. Mark Underground
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
Utilities
5.4. EMSEC Suppression
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
Techniques
5.5. Cable Labeling And
                                 5                                                         A        A        -       -
Installation Documentation
5.6. Wire Color-Coding
                                 5                                                         B        B        -       -
Standards
5.7. Fiber Optics
                                 -                                                         A        A        -       -
Installation Concepts
5.8. Explain Land Line
Concepts
5.8.1. Copper Cables             -                                                         -        B        -       -
5.8.2. Coaxial Cables            -                                                         -        A        -       -
5.8.3. Fiber Optic Cable         -                                                         -        B        -       -
5.8.4. Interfacing
Considerations (e.g. TRI-
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
TAC, Pinouts, Signal
Format)
5.9. Concepts of:
5.9.1. Grounding                 5                                                         A        B        -       -
5.9.2. Bonding                   5                                                         A        B        -       -
5.9.3. Shielding                 5                                                         A        B        -       -
5.9.4. Lightning Protection      5                                                         A        B        -       -
5.10. Electrostatic
Discharge
5.10.1. Fundamentals             -                                                         A        A        -       -
5.10.2. Concepts                 -                                                         -        A        -       -
5.10.3. Handling,
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Packaging and Storing




                                                         42                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                        3D1X7 STS



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C          D          E
                              WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
5.11. Equipment
Grounding and Lightning
Protection
5.11.1. Install                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
5.11.2. Remove                   -                                                         -        -        -       -
5.11.3. Perform Inspection
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
and Maintenance
5.12. Equipment
Familiarization
5.12.1. Locate Elements
5.12.1.1. Alphanumerics          -                                                         -        -        -       -
5.12.1.2. Visual Inspection      -                                                         -        -        -       -
5.13. Basic
Troubleshooting                  -                                                         A        A        -       -
Techniques
5.14. Concepts of PMI
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Process
6. COMMUNICATIONS
PRINCIPLES
TR: TO 31-1-141 Series
6.1. Amplitude Modulation
                                 -                                                         -        A        -       -
(AM)
6.2. Frequency Modulation
                                 -                                                         -        A        -       -
(FM)
6.3. Phase Modulation
                                 -                                                         -        A        -       -
(PM)
6.4. Pulse Code
                                 -                                                         -        A        -       -
Modulation (PCM)
6.5. Bandwidth                   -                                                         -        A        -       -
6.6. Light Wave
                                 -                                                         -        A        -       -
Communications
6.7. Asynchronous and
Synchronous                      -                                                         -        A        -       -
Communication Modes
6.8. Error Detection and
                                 -                                                         -        A        -       -
Correction
7. ELECTRICAL POWER
SYSTEMS
TR: Commercial Manuals
7.1. Switched Electrical
                                 -                                                         -        A        -       -
Power Systems
7.2. Uninterruptible Power
                                 -                                                         -        A        -       -
Supplies (UPS)
7.3. Batteries                   -                                                         -        A        -       -
7.4. Rectifiers                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
7.5. Inverters                   -                                                         -        -        -       -
7.6. Generators                  -                                                         -        A        -       -
8. CABLE AND
ANTENNA SYSTEMS
FUNDAMENTALS
TR: TOs 21M-LGM-30F-2-
20-1, 31W3-10 Series, 31-
10 Series



                                                         43                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                       3D1X7 STS



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                           A       B        C          D          E
                             WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                        Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
8.1. Cable Plant
                                5                                                         B        A        -       -
Classification
8.2. Cable Composition          5                                                         B        A        -       -
8.3. Conductor
                                5                                                         B        A        -       -
Identification
8.4. Procedures to Label
                                5                                                         b        A        -       -
and Tag Cable Systems
8.5. Procedures to Label
                                5                                                         b        A        -       -
and Tag Antenna Systems
8.6. Types and
Construction of Antenna         -                                                         B        A        -       -
Systems
8.7. Antenna
Fundamentals:
8.7.1. Wave Propagation         5                                                         B        A        -       -
8.7.2. Wave Length              5                                                         B        A        -       -
8.7.3. Wave Velocity            5                                                         B        A        -       -
8.7.4. Antenna Impedance        5                                                         B        A        -       -
8.7.5. Transmission Lines
8.7.5.1. Characteristics        -                                                         B        A        -       -
8.7.5.2. VSWR
                                -                                                         A        A        -       -
Fundamentals
8.8. Physical
Characteristics of              -                                                         -        A        -       -
Antennas
8.9. Frequency
Characteristics of              -                                                         -        A        -       -
Antennas
9. CABLE SPLICING
TR: TOs 21M-LGM-30F-2-
                                                                                                            -       -
20-1, 31W3-10 Series, 31-
10 Series
9.1. Splice Cables Using
                                -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Modular Splicing System
9.2. Splice Plastic-Sheath
                                                                                                            -       -
Plastic-Insulated Cable
9.2.1. Straight Splice          -                                                         2b       B        -       -
9.2.2. Bridge Splice            -                                                         2b       B        -       -
9.2.3. Butt Splice              -                                                         2b       B        -       -
9.2.4. Foldback Method          -                                                         2b       B        -       -
9.3. Splice Cable
9.3.1. Filled Cable             -                                                         -        B        -       -
9.3.2. Coaxial Cable            -                                                         -        B        -       -




                                                        44                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                        3D1X7 STS



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C          D          E
                              WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
9.4. Splice Fiber Optic
Cable by:
9.4.1. Setting Up Splice
                                 -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Point
9.4.2. Mechanical Splice
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
Method
9.4.3. Fusion Splice
                                 -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Method
9.5. Install Fiber Optic
                                 -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Splice Closures
9.6. Clear Cap Conductors        -                                                         2b       B        -       -
9.7. Install a Connector on
a Stranded Flexible              -                                                         -        -        -       -
Coaxial Cable
9.8. Install a Connector on
a Solid Center Conductor,
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Semi-Flexible Coaxial
Cable
9.9. Make a Cable Section
                                 -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Replacement
9.10. Make a Cable
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
Transfer
9.11. Repair Major/Minor
Sheath Damage on a Non-
                                 -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Pressurized Plastic-Sheath
Cable
9.12. Make Cable Count
                                 -                                                         1b       B        -       -
Changes
9.13. Splice-In Load Coils       -                                                         -        -        -       -
9.14. Splice-In Capacitors       -                                                         -        -        -       -
9.15. Splice-In Span Line
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Repeaters
9.16. Install Temporary
                                 -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Bonds
10. CABLE SEALING
TR: TOs 31W3-10-12,
31W3-10-13, 31W3-10-21,
21M-LGM-30F-2-20-1
10.1. Seal Cable Ends
10.1.1. End Cap                  -                                                         2b       B        -       -
10.1.2. Cured Rubber
                                 -                                                         2b       A        -       -
(CR) Tape
10.1.3. Stainless Steel
                                 -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Closure
10.2. Seal Splice Opening
10.2.1. Temporary Seal           -                                                         2b       B        -       -



                                                         45                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                         3D1X7 STS



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                             A       B        C          D          E
                               WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
10.2.2. Stainless Steel
                                  -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Closure Method
11. CABLE
TERMINATION
TR: TOs 31-10-2, 31-10-7,
31-10-27, 31W3-10-14,
21M-LGM-30F-2-20-1
11.1. Install Main
                                  -                                                         -        B        -       -
Distribution Frame (MDF)
11.2. Install Central Office
                                  -                                                         -        B        -       -
Stubbed Protectors
11.3. Install Central Office
                                  -                                                         -        B        -       -
Unstubbed Protectors
11.4. Install Tip Cables          -                                                         -        B        -       -
11.5. Terminate
                                  -                                                         -        B        -       -
Conductors on an MDF
11.6. Stencil an MDF with
                                  -                                                         -        B        -       -
the Proper Information
11.7. Install Protected
Terminals and Housings in:
11.7.1. Buried Distribution
                                  -                                                         b        B        -       -
Systems
11.7.2. Aerial Distribution
                                  -                                                         -        A        -       -
Systems
11.7.3. Building
                                  -                                                         b        B        -       -
Distribution Systems
11.8. Terminate Cable on
Protected Terminals in:
11.8.1. Buried Distribution
                                  -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Systems

11.8.2. Aerial Distribution       -                                                         -        A        -       -
Systems
11.8.3. Building
                                  -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Distribution Systems
11.9. Terminate Fiber
Optic Cable Using:
11.9.1. Splicer Support
                                  -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Shelf/Patch Panel
11.9.2. Splice Tray
                                  -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Configuration
11.10. Install Connectors
on Fiber Optic Cable
11.10.1. Epoxy
                                  -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Connectors
11.10.2. Crimped
                                  -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Connectors



                                                          46                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                        3D1X7 STS



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C          D          E
                              WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
11.11. Tag Terminals with
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
the Proper Information
11.12. Stencil Terminals
                                 -                                                         b        B        -       -
with the Proper Information
11.13. Perform
Terminating Techniques
Using the:
11.13.1. Mechanical
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
Method
11.13.2. Wire Wrap
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Method
11.13.3. Terminate
Conductors Using the             -                                                         2b       A        -       -
Punch-Down Method
12. PRINCIPLES OF
WORKING ALOFT
TR: TOs 31-10-3, 31-10-
19; 31W3-10-12; 31W3-10-
13; 31W3-10-21; 31W3-10-
22; 32-1-101
12.1. Inspect Climbing
                                 -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Equipment
12.2. Adjust Climbing
                                 -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Equipment
12.3. Prepare Work Area
by Inspecting Poles and          -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Surrounding Area
12.4. Climb/Work Aloft on
an Unstepped Pole                -                                                         2b       -        -       -
(See Note 1)
12.5. Climb/Work Aloft on
a Stepped Pole                   -                                                         2b       -        -       -
(See Note 1)
12.6. Climb/Work Aloft on
a Tower                          -                                                         2b       -        -       -
(See Note 1)
12.7. Perform Rescue
Procedures
12.7.1. Pole top                 -                                                         2b       -        -       -
12.7.2. Tower                    -                                                         2b       -        -       -
12.8. Perform Standard
                                 -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Hand Signals
13. AERIAL CABLE
SYSTEMS
TR: TOs 31-1-141 Series,
31-10-3, 31-10-14, 31-10-
24, 31W3-10-12, 31W3-10-
13, 31W3-10-19, 31W3-10-
21, 31R1-2U-111, 31R2-
2FRC-131, 31R2-2GRC-
1232, 35A34-3 through 7,
36A11-20-14-1; EIDR-700-
7

                                                         47                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                         3D1X7 STS



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                             A       B        C          D          E
                               WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
13.1. Principles of an
                                  -                                                         B        -        -       -
Aerial Cable System
13.2. Stake Out a Pole
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Line
13.3. Dig Holes for Poles
Using:
13.3.1. Hand Tools                -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.3.2. Power Equipment           -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.4. Prepare Poles for
Installation
13.4.1. Inspecting                -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.4.2. Loading                   -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.4.3. Transporting              -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.4.4. Unloading                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.4.5. Installing Depth
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Markers
13.4.6. Installing Steps          -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.4.7. Installing Lightning
Protection
13.4.7.1. Install
Continuous Lightning              -                                                         b        -        -       -
Protection
13.4.7.2. Install Non-
Continuous Lightning              -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Protection
13.5. Install Poles Using
the Construction Vehicle
(Crane, Low-Pro, Mid-Pro)         -                                                         1b       -        -       -
Method
(See Note 8)
13.6. Install Anchors
13.6.1. Patent                    -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.6.2. Non-Patent                -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.7. Install Antenna
Support Guys:
13.7.1. Temporary                 -                                                         2b       B        -       -
13.7.2. Permanent                 -                                                         2b       B        -       -
13.8. Remove Poles Using
the:
13.8.1. Construction
Vehicle (Crane, Low-Pro,          -                                                         -        -        -       -
Mid-Pro) Method
13.8.2. Jack and Pullover
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Method



                                                          48                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                         3D1X7 STS



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                             A       B        C          D          E
                               WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
13.8.3. Pole Derrick and
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Pole Jack Method
13.9. Prepare Work Area
by Inspecting Poles and           -                                                         -        -        -       -
Surrounding Area
13.10. Climb and Work
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Aloft on Ladders
13.11. Secure Tools and
Equipment at Working              -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Height
13.12. Install Suspension
                                  -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Strand
13.13. Test Suspension
Strand for Correct Tension        -                                                         -        -        -       -
Using a Tension Meter
13.14. Test Suspension
Strand Using the Two              -                                                         -        -        -       -
Person Method
13.15. Remove
                                  -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Suspension Strand
13.16. Install the Following
Cables:
13.16.1. Copper Core              -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.16.2. Fiber Optic              -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.16.3. Coaxial
13.16.3.1. Flexible               -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.16.3.2. Semi-flexible          -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.16.3.3. Rigid                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.17. Remove the
Following Cables:
13.17.1. Copper Core              -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.17.2. Fiber Optic              -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.17.3. Coaxial
13.17.3.1. Flexible               -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.17.3.2. Semi-flexible          -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.17.3.3. Rigid                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.17.4. Remove Two
Spans of Aerial Cable and         -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Associated Hardware
13.18. Install Cable
                                  -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Supports
13.19. Use Transit                -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.20. Perform Standard
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Construction Hand Signals


                                                          49                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                       3D1X7 STS



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                           A       B        C          D          E
                             WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                        Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
13.21. Prepare Antenna
Support Towers for
Installation
13.21.1. Loading                -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.21.2. Transporting           -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.21.3. Unloading              -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.22. Inventory Material
for a Self-Supporting           -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Tower
13.23. Install Self-
Supporting Antenna
Sections Using a:
13.23.1. Floating Gin Pole      -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.23.2. Construction
Vehicle (Crane, Low-Pro,        -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Mid-Pro)
13.24. Remove Self-
Supporting Antenna
Sections Using a:
13.24.1. Floating Gin Pole      -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.24.2. Construction
Vehicle (Crane, Low-Pro,        -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Mid-Pro)
13.25. Install Guyed
Antenna Supports Using a:
13.25.1. Fixed Gin Pole         -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.25.2. Floating Gin Pole      -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.25.3. Construction
Vehicle (Crane, Low-Pro,        -                                                         -        B        -       -
Mid-Pro)
13.26. Remove Guyed
Antenna Supports Using a:
13.26.1. Fixed Gin Pole         -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.26.2. Floating Gin Pole      -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.26.3. Construction
Vehicle (Crane, Low-Pro,        -                                                         -        B        -       -
Mid-Pro)
13.27. Plumb Antenna
Supports Using the:
13.27.1. Transit Method         -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.27.2. Plumb Bob
                                -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Method
13.28. Install Obstruction
                                -                                                         -        -        -       -
Lighting Systems




                                                        50                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                       3D1X7 STS



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                           A       B        C          D          E
                             WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                        Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
13.29. Maintain
Obstruction Lighting            -                                                         -        B        -       -
Systems
13.30. Determine
Specifications for              -                                                         -        A        -       -
Obstruction Markings
13.31. Install Radomes          -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.32. Maintain Radomes         -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.33. Remove Radomes           -                                                         -        -        -       -
13.34. Assemble
                                -                                                         -        -        -       -
Rotatable Antennas
13.35. Raise Rotatable
                                -                                                         -        -        -       -
Antennas
13.36. Lower Rotatable
                                -                                                         -        -        -       -
Antennas
13.37. Disassemble
                                -                                                         -        -        -       -
Rotatable Antennas
13.38. Safety Climb
                                -                                                         b        B        -       -
Device Installation
13.39. Rig Rotatable
                                -                                                         -        -        -       -
Antennas for Lowering
13.40. Rig Rotatable
                                -                                                         -        -        -       -
Antennas for Raising
14. UNDERGROUND
CABLE SYSTEMS
TR: TOs 31-10-3, 31W3-
10-12, 31W3-10-13,
21M-LGM-30F-2-20-1
14.1. Enter a Confined
                                5                                                         b        -        -       -
Space
14.2. Prepare
Subterranean Work Area
14.2.1. Place Warning
Devices, Manhole Guards         5                                                         2b       B        -       -
and Personnel
14.2.2. Test Subterranean
                                5                                                         2b       B        -       -
Atmosphere
14.2.3. Identify Manhole
                                5                                                         -        A        -       -
Classification
14.2.4. Prevent Entrance
                                5                                                         b        B        -       -
of Water
14.2.5. Ventilate
                                5                                                         2b       B        -       -
Subterranean Structures
14.2.6. Monitor the Air
Quality at Required
                                5                                                         2b       A        -       -
Intervals While Working in
a Confined Space



                                                        51                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                       3D1X7 STS



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                           A       B        C          D          E
                             WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                        Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
14.2.7. Set Up Ground
                                -                                                         -        -        -       -
Tents
14.2.8. Perform Manhole
                                5                                                         2b       B        -       -
Rescue Procedures
14.2.9. Master Entry Plan
(MEP)
TR: AFI 91-203, chap 23
14.2.9.1. MEP Principles        5                                                         B        B        -       -
14.2.9.2. Describe MEP
                                7                                                         -        -        -       -
Elements
14.2.9.3. Develop MEP           7                                                         -        -        -       -
14.3. Install a Continuous
Duct Rod in Conduit             -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Between Runs
14.4. Clean Cable Ducts         -                                                         2b       B        -       -
14.5. Install Pulling-In
                                -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Rope
14.6. Prepare Cable Ends
For Pulling Using a:
14.6.1. Core Hitch              -                                                         2b       B        -       -
14.6.2. Cable Grip              -                                                         2b       B        -       -
14.7. Prepare Cable-
Pulling Apparatus at            -                                                         -        B        -       -
Manhole Opening
14.8. Test the Length of
                                -                                                         b        -        -       -
Cable on a Reel
14.9. Match a Specified
Pulling Length of Cable to
                                -                                                         1b       -        -       -
an Engineered Project
Drawing
14.10. Install Cable Racks      -                                                         b        B        -       -
14.11. Install Copper Core
                                -                                                         -        B        -       -
Cable
14.12. Remove Copper
                                -                                                         -        A        -       -
Core Cable
14.13. Install an
Underground Fiber Optic         -                                                         b        -        -       -
Inner Duct/ Mesh Fabric
14.14. Install an
Underground Fiber Optic         -                                                         b        B        -       -
Cable
14.15. Remove Fiber
                                -                                                         -        A        -       -
Optic Cable




                                                        52                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                       3D1X7 STS



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                           A       B        C          D          E
                             WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                        Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
14.16. Install a Pulling
Frame, Sheave and
                                -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Sheave Shackle over a
Manhole Opening
14.17. Install a Cable
Through Two Manhole
Runs With One 90-Degree
                                -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Turn using a Cable Reel
Truck
(See Note 8)
14.18. Remove Cable
From Two Manhole Runs
With One 90-Degree Turn         -                                                         2b       -        -       -
using a Cable Reel Truck
(See Note 8)
14.19. Form Cable in
Subterranean Structures
by:
14.19.1. Hand                   -                                                         2b       B        -       -
14.19.2. Using Cable
                                -                                                         b        B        -       -
Jacks
14.19.3. Using Bending
                                -                                                         -        B        -       -
Springs
14.20. Rack Cable in
Subterranean Structures
Using the:
14.20.1. Permanent
                                -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Method
14.20.2. Temporary
                                -                                                         -        B        -       -
Method
14.21. Install Bonding
Ribbon in Subterranean          -                                                         b        B        -       -
Structures
14.22. Bond Cable in
                                -                                                         -        B        -       -
Subterranean Structures
14.23. Bond a Stainless
                                -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Steel Closure in a Manhole
14.24. Tag Cable in
                                -                                                         b        B        -       -
Subterranean Structures
15. BURIED CABLE
SYSTEMS
TR: TOs 31W3-10-12,
31W3-10-13, 31W3-10
Series, 32 Series, 21M-
LGM-30F-2-20-1
15.1. Mark Buried Cable
                                -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Path Prior to Digging
15.2. AF Form 103
Clearance Permit Through
                                -                                                         b        A        -       -
Base Civil Engineering
(BCE) Prior to Digging



                                                        53                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                        3D1X7 STS



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C          D          E
                              WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
15.3. Locate Existing
Buried Cables Using Test
Equipment
15.3.1. Locate and Mark
an Existing Cable Using a        -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Cable and Fault Locator
15.3.2. Determine the
Depth of a Cable Using a         -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Cable and Fault Locator
15.4. Excavate Cable             -                                                         -        B        -       -
15.5. Set Up Cable for
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
Splicing
15.6. Set Up a Ground
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Tent
15.7. Protect Cable Plant        -                                                         -        B        -       -
15.8. Prepare Splice Pit
and Trench for:
15.8.1. Copper Core
                                 -                                                         b        B        -       -
Cable
15.8.2. Fiber Optic Cable        -                                                         -        B        -       -
15.9. Prepare a Splice Pit
for Splicing a Cable using       -                                                         b        -        -       -
the Single-Offset Method
15.10. Prepare a Splice
Pit for Splicing a Cable
                                 -                                                         b        -        -       -
using the Double-Offset
Method
15.11. Backfill Splice Pits
and Trenches using the:
15.11.1. Manual Method           -                                                         -        -        -       -
15.11.2. Mechanical
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Method
15.11.3. Backfill a Cable
Trench for a Base                -                                                         b        -        -       -
Distribution System

15.11.4. Backfill a Splice
Pit for a Base Distribution      -                                                         b        -        -       -
System

15.12. Install Cables
Using the:
15.12.1. Manual Method           -                                                         -        -        -       -
15.12.2. Mechanical
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Method
15.13. Install Buried
Cables to Include:
15.13.1. Copper Core



                                                         54                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                        3D1X7 STS



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C          D          E
                              WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
15.13.1.1. Install a Copper
Core Cable using the Open        -                                                         b        -        -       -
Trench Method
15.13.1.2. Install a Copper
Core Cable using the             -                                                         b        -        -       -
Cable Plow Method
15.13.2. Coaxial:
15.13.2.1. Flexible              -                                                         -        A        -       -
15.13.3. Control Cable           -                                                         -        -        -       -
15.13.4. Fiber Optic
15.13.4.1. Install a Buried
                                 -                                                         b        -        -       -
Fiber Optic Inner-Duct
15.13.4.2. Install a Buried
Fiber Optic Cable using the      -                                                         b        -        -       -
Plow Method
15.13.4.3. Install a Buried
Fiber Optic Cable using the      -                                                         b        -        -       -
Trench Method
15.14. Install Cable
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Markers
15.15. Cable Route
Markers
15.15.1. Types of Cable
                                 -                                                         B        A        -       -
Route Markers
15.15.2. Marking
Standards of a Cable             -                                                         B        A        -       -
Route Marker
15.15.3. Placement
Requirements of a Cable          -                                                         B        A        -       -
Route Marker
15.16. Cable Reel
15.16.1. Place a Cable
                                 -                                                         b        -        -       -
using Cable Reel Jacks
15.16.2. Place a Cable
                                 -                                                         b        -        -       -
using Cable Reel Stands
15.16.3. Use a Hydraulic
Cable Trailer to Place a         -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Cable Reel
16. FIBER OPTICS
TR: TO 31-10-34
16.1. Theory of Fiber
Optic Lightwave                  5                                                         B        B        -       -
Communication
16.2. Characteristics of
Fiber Optic Cable Types
16.2.1. Single Mode
                                 -                                                         B        A
Fibers


                                                         55                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                        3D1X7 STS



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C          D          E
                              WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
16.2.2. Multimode Fibers         -                                                         B        A
16.2.3. Tight-Tube               -                                                         B        A        -       -
16.2.4. Loose-Tube               -                                                         B        A        -       -
16.2.5. Hybrid Fiber Optic
                                 -                                                         B        A        -       -
Cable
16.3. Test Cables Using:
16.3.1. OTDR
16.3.1.1. Measure the
Length of a Fiber Optic          -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Cable
16.3.1.2. Measure the Db
                                 -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Loss of a Fiber Optic Cable
16.3.2. Optical Power
Meter
16.3.2.1. Measure the Db
                                 -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Loss of an Optical Fiber
16.4. Install Fiber Optic
Cable
16.4.1. Aerial Fiber Optic       -                                                         b        -        -       -
16.4.2. Interior Building
                                 -                                                         b        -        -       -
Fiber Optic Cable
16.4.3. Fiber Optic Splice
                                 -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Enclosure
16.5. Splice Fiber Optic
Cable
16.5.1. Mechanical
                                 -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Splices
16.5.2. Optical Fusion
                                 -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Splicer
16.5.3. Arrange Fiber
Optic Splices in a Splice        -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Tray
16.6. Install Fiber Optic
Connections
16.6.1. Terminate at Patch
                                 -                                                         b        -        -       -
Panel

16.6.2. Hot Melt-Type
                                 -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Connector

16.6.3. No Polish-Type
                                 -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Pre-Polished Connector
16.6.4. Small Form
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Connectors




                                                         56                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                      3D1X7 STS



                                                                                         4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                            2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                          A       B        C          D          E
                            WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                             TASKS
                                      START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                       Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                      DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
17. CABLE TESTING
TR: TOs 31-1-141-1, 11-
6625-201-12,
33A1-12-1300-1, 33A1-12-
310-1
17.1. Wire Transmission
                               5                                                         -        B        -       -
Principles
17.2. Measure Insulation
                               -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Resistance
17.3. Use a Multimeter to
Measure:
17.3.1. Loop Resistance        -                                                         2b       B        -       -
17.3.2. Stray Voltage          -                                                         2b       B        -       -
17.4. Detect Cable Faults
Using a:
17.4.1. Splicer's Headset
                               -                                                         2b       B        -       -
and Battery
17.4.2. Multimeter             -                                                         2b       B        -       -
17.4.3. Cable Fault
                               -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Detector
17.5. Detect Splicer’s
Errors Using a:
17.5.1. Splicer's Headset
                               -                                                         2b       B        -       -
and Battery
17.5.2. Multimeter             -                                                         2b       B        -       -
17.5.3. Tone Set               -                                                         -        B        -       -
17.6. Identify Conductors
in Non-Working Cable
Using a:
17.6.1. Splicer's Headset
                               5                                                         -        B        -       -
and Battery
17.6.2. Multimeter             5                                                         -        B        -       -
17.6.3. Tone Set               5                                                         -        B        -       -
17.7. Locate Earth Return
Faults in Non-Working
                               -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Cable using the Cable and
Fault Locator Test Set
17.8. Locate Non-
Resistive Cable Faults on
Non-Working Cable using        -                                                         2b       -        -       -
a Subscriber Loop
Analyzer Test Set
17.9. Locate Resistive-
Type Faults on a Non-
Working Cable using a          -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Subscriber Loop Analyzer
Test Set



                                                       57                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                       3D1X7 STS



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                           A       B        C          D          E
                             WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                        Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
17.10. Locate Split Pairs
Faults using a Subscriber       -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Loop Analyzer Test Set
17.11. Identify Conductors
in Working Cable using a:
17.11.1. Tone Set and
                                -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Amplifier
17.11.2. Multimeter             -                                                         2b       B        -       -
17.12. Locate Cable
Faults Using a:
17.12.1. Tone Set,
Exploring Coil and              -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Amplifier
17.12.2. Fault Locator          -                                                         2b       B        -       -
17.12.3. Open Fault
                                -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Locator
17.12.4. TDR                    -                                                         2b       B        -       -
17.13. Locate Cable
Faults in a Working Cable
                                -                                                         -        -        -       -
Section using a Subscriber
Loop Analyzer Test Set
17.14. Types of Splice
                                5                                                         B        B        -       -
Errors
17.15. Measure
Resistance of Station           -                                                         b        B        -       -
Grounds
17.16. Record Station
Ground Test Data on             -                                                         -        B        -       -
Applicable Forms
18. CABLE PRESSURE
SYSTEM
TR: TOs 21M-LGM30F-2-
20-1, 21M-LGM30F-2-5-7,
31W3-10-20; AFCA CEMI
350-22
18.1. Theory of
Continuous Flow and             -                                                         -        -        -       -
Static Pressure Systems
18.2. Pressurize an
                                -                                                         -        -        -       -
Antenna Transmission Line
18.3. Pressurize Antenna
Transmission Lines in
Aerial, Underground and
Buried Cable Systems by:
18.3.1. Installing a Cable
                                -                                                         -        -        -       -
Air Dryer (CAD)
18.3.2. Installing a
Temporary Pressure              -                                                         -        -        -       -
Source



                                                        58                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                         3D1X7 STS



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                             A       B        C          D          E
                               WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
18.4. Install Pressure
Plugs using the:
18.4.1. Injection Method          -                                                         -        -        -       -
18.4.2. Pour Method               -                                                         -        -        -       -
18.5. Install Plastic
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Pressure Fittings

18.6. Install a Meter Panel       -                                                         -        -        -       -

18.7. Maintain Cable
Pressure Systems by:
18.7.1. Performing CAD
Preventive Maintenance            -                                                         -        -        -       -
Inspections (PMI)
18.7.2. Removing and
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Replacing CADs
18.7.3. Interpreting Meter
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Panel Readings
18.7.4. Recording Airflow
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Consumption
18.7.5. Maintaining Stored
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Cables
18.8. Locate Leaks using:
18.8.1. Gradients                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
18.8.2. Flash Test Method         -                                                         -        -        -       -
18.9. Eliminate Moisture in
Cable using the:
18.9.1. Purging Method            -                                                         -        -        -       -
18.9.2. Heated Dry Air
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Method
18.10. Address And Adjust
                                  -                                                         -        -        -       -
Pressure Transmitters
18.11. Perform Pressure
Transmitter Checkout from         -                                                         -        -        -       -
Missile Alert Facility (MAF)
18.12. Perform PMRT
Access and System                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Initialization
18.13. Perform
Examination/Manual Scan           -                                                         -        -        -       -
of PT Circuits
18.14. Perform PMRT
Program Loading and               -                                                         -        -        -       -
Recording




                                                          59                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                        3D1X7 STS



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C          D          E
                              WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
19. LOCAL AREA
NETWORK/WIDE AREA
NETWORK (LAN/WAN)
DISTRIBUTION
SYSTEMS
TR: Commercial Manuals,
EIA/TIA 569, 570; TIA/EIA
568A, 606, 607, TSB 67,
TSB 72
19.1 Theory of the
Following LAN/WAN
Distribution Systems:
19.1.1. Topology of
LAN/WAN Distribution             -                                                         -        A        -       -
Systems
19.1.2. Use of Multiplexers
in LAN/WAN Distribution          -                                                         -        A        -       -
Systems
19.1.3. Use of Modems in
LAN/WAN Distribution             -                                                         -        A        -       -
Systems
19.1.4. Use of Routers,
Hubs and Servers in
                                 -                                                         -        A        -       -
LAN/WAN Distribution
Systems
19.2. Types of LAN/WAN
Transmission Methods:
19.2.1. Single Mode Fiber
                                 -                                                         -        A        -       -
Optics
19.2.2. Multimode Fiber
                                 -                                                         -        A        -       -
Optics
19.2.3. Unshielded
Twisted Pair\Shielded
                                 -                                                         -        A        -       -
Twisted Pair (UTP\STP)
(Intra-Building Wiring)
19.3. Install LAN/WAN
Distribution Systems to
include:
19.3.1. Single Mode Fiber
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
Optics
19.3.2. Multimode Fiber
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
Optics
19.3.3. UTP\STP (Intra-
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
Building Wiring)
19.3.4. Patch Panels and
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
Associated Hardware
19.4. Maintain LAN/WAN
Distribution Systems to
include:
19.4.1. Single Mode Fiber
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
Optics


                                                         60                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                       3D1X7 STS



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                           A       B        C          D          E
                             WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                        Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
19.4.2. Multimode Fiber
                                -                                                         -        B        -       -
Optics
19.4.3. Patch Panels and
                                -                                                         -        B        -       -
Associated Hardware
19.4.4. UTP\STP (Intra-
                                -                                                         -        B        -       -
Building Wiring)
19.5. Terminate LAN/WAN
Cables by:
19.5.1. Installing Twisted
                                -                                                         -        B        -       -
Pair Connectors
19.5.2. Installing Work
                                -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Area Outlets
19.5.3. Fabricating Patch
                                -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Cords
20. TELEPHONY
DEVICES INSTALLATION
AND MAINTENANCE
TR: TOs 31-10-7, 31-10-
13, 31W3-10-8, TIA/EIA
568A & 569
20.1. Terminate Cable
using:
20.1.1. Wire Wrap Method        -                                                         -        -        -       -
20.1.2. Punch-Down
                                -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Method
20.1.3. Amphenol Method         -                                                         -        -        -       -
20.1.4. Crimp Method            -                                                         2b       -        -       -
20.1.5. Hot-Melt Method         -                                                         2b       -        -       -
20.2. Install Cross-
Connects on Distribution        -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Frames
20.3. Terminate Strapping
                                -                                                         -        -        -       -
Connections
20.4. Install Work Area
                                -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Outlet
20.5. Install Cross-
                                -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Connects for Premise
20.6. Perform System
Operational Test to             -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Validate Installation
20.7. Perform System
                                -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Corrective Maintenance
21. PROTECTED
DISTRIBUTIONS
SYSTEM (PDS)
TR: NSTISSI_7003
http://www.cnss.gov/Asset
s/pdf/nstissi_7003.pdf
21.1. Concepts                  -                                                         A        A        -       -
21.2. Types                     -                                                         A        A        -       -
21.3. Marking/Labeling          -                                                         A        B        -       -



                                                        61                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                         3D1X7 STS



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                               2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                             A       B        C          D          E
                               WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                                TASKS
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                          Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
21.4. Physical Security           -                                                         A        B        -       -
21.5. Layout                      -                                                         A        A        -       -
21.6. Installation Methods
                                  -                                                         -        A        -       -
(Fishing/Pull String)
22. INTRA-BUILDING
DISTRIBUTION
SYSTEMS
TR: EIA/TIA 568 Series,
TIA/EIA 606, Tele-
communications System
Bulletin (TSB) – 67, 606
Standard; TO 00-33D-
3003-WA-1
22.1. Principles of Intra-
Building Wiring Distribution      5                                                         A        B        -       -
System
22.2. Installation
Principles and Associated         5                                                         A        B        -       -
Hardware
22.3. Install, Route, Form,
Terminate and Label               -                                                         2b       -        -       -
Cables/Associated Wiring
22.4. Test Distribution
                                  -                                                         2b       -        -       -
System
22.5. Install Racks, Patch
Panels and Wire                   -                                                         -        -        -       -
Management Systems
22.6. Principles of-Certify
and Document Distribution         7                                                         -        B        -       -
System
23. OPERATE AND
MAINTAIN SPECIAL
PURPOSE VEHICLES
TR: AFI 24-301; AFI 91-
Series; TOs 00-20B-5,
36A11-18 series, 36A12-
19-7-2
23.1. Driver Safety
                                  -                                                         A        A        -       -
Practices
23.2. Inspect for Proper
Configuration of Tools,           -                                                         -        -        -       -
Parts and Materials
23.3. Purpose and Use of
Special Purpose/                  -                                                         A        A        -       -
Construction Vehicles
23.4. Perform Operator
Maintenance on Special
Purpose Vehicles and
Accessories to include:
23.4.1. Line Trucks               -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.4.2. Low Profile               -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.4.3. Cable Reel Truck          -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.4.4. Trenchers                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.4.5. Cable Trailers:


                                                          62                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                        3D1X7 STS



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C          D          E
                              WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
23.4.5.1. Hydraulic              -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.4.5.2. Non-Hydraulic          -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.4.6. Forklift                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.4.7. Backhoes                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.4.8. Pole Trailers            -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.4.9. Tractor and Trailer      -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.4.10. Cable Plow              -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.4.11. Combination Pole
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
and Cable Trailer
23.4.12. Fiber Optic
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Splicing Trailer
23.4.13. General Power
Component (GPC) Utility          -                                                         -        -        -       -
Trailer
23.5. Operate Special
Purpose Vehicles and
Accessories to include:
23.5.1. Line Trucks              -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.5.2. Low Profile              -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.5.3. Cable Reel Truck         -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.5.4. Trenchers                -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.5.5. Cable Trailers:
23.5.5.1. Hydraulic              -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.5.5.2. Non-Hydraulic          -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.5.6. Forklift                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.5.7. Backhoes                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.5.8. Pole Trailers            -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.5.9. Tractor and Trailer      -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.5.10. Cable Plow              -                                                         -        -        -       -
23.5.11. Combination Pole
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
and Cable Trailer
23.5.12. Fiber Optic
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Splicing Trailer
23.5.13. General Power
Component (GPC) Utility          -                                                         b        -        -       -
Trailer




                                                         63                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                       3D1X7 STS



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                           A       B        C          D          E
                             WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                        Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
24. CABLE AND
ANTENNA SYSTEMS
COMMON
MAINTENANCE
PRACTICES.
TR: AFI 91-203; TOs
21M-LGM30F-2-20; 31-10-
3, 31W3-10-19, 31W3-10-
12, 31W3-10-21, 36A11-18
series
24.1. Utilize Auxiliary
Equipment to include:
24.1.1. General-Purpose
                                -                                                         -        -        -       -
Carrier
24.1.2. Water Pumps:
24.1.2.1. Electrical            -                                                         -        -        -       -
24.1.2.2. Mechanical            -                                                         -        -        -       -
24.1.3. Generators              -                                                         -        -        -       -
24.1.4. Blowers                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
24.1.5. Heaters                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
24.2. Use Power Actuated
Tools to include:
24.2.1. Pneumatic               -                                                         b        -        -       -
24.2.2. Powder                  -                                                         b        -        -       -
24.2.3. Electric                -                                                         b        -        -       -
24.3. Types of Fiber
                                5                                                         B        A        -       -
Ropes
24.4. Care of Fiber Ropes       5                                                         b        B        -       -
24.5. Explain how Fiber
Ropes are used in this          -                                                         B        B        -       -
AFSC
24.6. Splice Fiber Ropes
24.6.1. Crown                   -                                                         -        -        -       -
24.6.2. Eye                     -                                                         -        -        -       -
24.6.3. Long                    -                                                         -        -        -       -
24.6.4. Short                   -                                                         -        -        -       -
24.7. Tie Knots in Fiber
Ropes
24.7.1. Overhand                -                                                         2b       A        -       -
24.7.2. Square                  -                                                         2b       A        -       -
24.7.3. Bowline-on-a-Bight      -                                                         2b       A        -       -
24.7.4. Sheetbend               -                                                         2b       -        -       -
24.7.5. Bowline                 5                                                         2b       A        -       -



                                                        64                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                       3D1X7 STS



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                           A       B        C          D          E
                             WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                        Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
24.7.6. Double Bowline          5                                                         2b       A        -       -
24.7.7. Intermediate
                                -                                                         2b       A        -       -
Bowline
24.8. Tie Hitches in Fiber
Ropes
24.8.1. Clove                   5                                                         2b       A        -       -
24.8.2. Timber                  -                                                         2b       A        -       -
24.8.3. Snubbing                -                                                         2b       A        -       -
24.9. Rolled Eye Wire
                                -                                                         -        -        -       -
Rope Splice
24.10. Wire Rope
24.10.1. Most Common
                                -                                                         -        -        -       -
Types
24.10.2. Most Common
                                -                                                         -        -        -       -
Uses
24.10.3. Caring For             -                                                         -        -        -       -
24.11. Use Rigging
Techniques to Install
                                -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Antenna and Cable
Systems
24.12. Load and Unload
                                -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Cable Reels
24.13. Position Cable
Trucks/Reels for:
24.13.1. Aerial
                                -                                                         b        B        -       -
Construction
24.13.2. Buried
                                -                                                         b        B        -       -
Construction
24.13.3. Underground
                                -                                                         2b       B        -       -
Construction
24.13.4. Cable Reel Jacks       -                                                         -        B        -       -
24.13.5. Cable Reel Stand       -                                                         -        B        -       -
24.13.6. Cable Trailer          -                                                         -        B        -       -
24.14. Identify the
Purpose and Use of              5                                                         -        A        -       -
Common Hand Tools
24.15. Maintain Common
                                5                                                         b        -        -       -
Hand Tools for Safe Use
24.16. Identify the
Purpose and Use of              -                                                         -        B        -       -
Construction Tools
24.17. Maintain
                                -                                                         b        B        -       -
Construction Tools




                                                        65                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                        3D1X7 STS



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C          D          E
                              WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
24.18. Identify Purpose of
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
Construction Equipment
24.19. Maintain
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
Construction Equipment
25. ANTENNA SYSTEMS
TR: TOs 31-1-141 Series,
31-10-14, 31-10-24,
31R2-2GRC-1232, 31-10-3
25.1. Antenna
                                 5                                                         B        B        -       -
Fundamentals
25.2. Transmission Line
                                 5                                                         B        B        -       -
Fundamentals
25.3. Antenna Types and
                                 5                                                         B        B        -       -
Characteristics
25.4. Non-Self-Supporting
Antenna Systems
25.4.1. Maintain Guys            -                                                         b        -        -       -
25.4.2. Maintain Anchors         -                                                         b        -        -       -
25.5. Maintain Hazard
Markings
25.5.1. Hazard Lights            -                                                         b        -        -       -
25.5.2. Warning Signs,
                                 -                                                         b        -        -       -
Symbols and Markings
25.6. Use a Transit to:
25.6.1. Site Anchor
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Locations
25.6.2. Establish Datum
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Lines
25.7. Install the Following
Antenna Components:
25.7.1. Radiators                -                                                         -        B        -       -
25.7.2. Reflectors               -                                                         -        B        -       -
25.7.3. Rotator Controls         -                                                         -        B        -       -
25.7.4. Azimuth Controls         -                                                         -        B        -       -
25.7.5. Mechanical
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
Controls
25.7.6. Antenna Support
                                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
Hardware
25.8. Align Reflectors           -                                                         -        -        -       -
25.9. Maintain Antenna
Components:
25.9.1. Radiators                -                                                         -        -        -       -
25.9.2. Reflectors               -                                                         -        -        -       -
25.9.3. Rotator Controls         -                                                         -        -        -       -


                                                         66                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                      3D1X7 STS



                                                                                         4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                            2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                          A       B        C          D          E
                            WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                             TASKS
                                      START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                       Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                      DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
25.9.4. Azimuth Controls       -                                                         -        -        -       -
25.9.5. Mechanical
                               -                                                         -        -        -       -
Controls
25.9.6. Antenna Support
                               -                                                         -        -        -       -
Hardware
25.10. Antenna Support
Poles
25.10.1. Load and Unload
                               -                                                         1b       -        -       -
(See Note 8 )
25.10.2. Transport
                               -                                                         b        -        -       -
Antenna Support Poles
25.11. Install Antenna
Support Pole
(See Note 8)
25.11.1. Construction
                               -                                                         1b       -        -       -
Vehicle
25.11.2. Crane                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
25.12. Remove Antenna
Support Pole
(See Note 8)
25.12.1. Construction
                               -                                                         1b       -        -       -
Vehicle
25.12.2. Crane                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
25.13. Remove the
Following Antenna
Components:
25.13.1. Radiators             -                                                         -        -        -       -
25.13.2. Reflectors            -                                                         -        -        -       -
25.13.3. Rotator Controls      -                                                         -        -        -       -
25.13.4. Azimuth Controls      -                                                         -        -        -       -
25.13.5. Mechanical
                               -                                                         -        -        -       -
Controls
25.13.6. Antenna Support
                               -                                                         -        -        -       -
Hardware
25.14. Install Antenna
                               -                                                         b        -        -       -
Ground Reflector Systems
25.15. Maintain Open
                               -                                                         -        -        -       -
Wire Transmission Lines
25.16. Parabolic
Microwave Dish
(See Note 8)
25.16.1. Install and
                               -                                                         1b       -        -       -
Remove
25.16.2. Align                 -                                                         1b       -        -       -
25.16.3. Perform a
                               -                                                         1b       -        -       -
Scheduled PMI



                                                       67                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                       3D1X7 STS



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                             2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                           A       B        C          D          E
                             WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                              TASKS
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                        Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
26. CLIMBING
CERTIFICATIONS/
RESCUE PROCEDURES
TR: AFI 21-120, 91-203,
OSHA 1910.146, 1926,
T.O. 31-10-3, 31-10-19,
31W3-10-12, 31W3-10-13;
31W3-10-19, 31W3-10-21
26.1. Tower Climbing            -                                                         3c       -        -       -
26.2. Unstepped Pole            -                                                         3c       -        -       -
26.3. Pole Top Rescue           -                                                         3c       -        -       -
26.4. Tower Rescue              -                                                         3c       -        -       -
26.5. Manhole Rescue            -                                                         3c       -        -       -
26.6. Confined Space
                                -                                                         3c       -        -       -
Certification
27. ANTENNA SYSTEMS
INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE.
TR: AFI 33 Series; AFI 91-
203; TOs 31-1-141 Series,
31-10 Series, 33A1-15-39-
1, 00-33D-3004-WA-1 and
Applicable Technical Data
27.1. Maintain RF Coaxial
Cables:
27.1.1. Flexible                -                                                         -        B        -       -
27.1.2. Rigid                   -                                                         -        -        -       -
27.2. Install Connectors
on:
27.2.1. Flexible Coaxial
                                -                                                         -        B        -       -
Cable
27.2.2. Flexible
                                -                                                         -        B        -       -
Waveguide
27.3. Install Waveguides:
27.3.1. Flexible                -                                                         -        -        -       -
27.3.2. Rigid                   -                                                         -        -        -       -
27.4. Maintain
Waveguides:
27.4.1. Flexible                -                                                         -        B        -       -
27.4.2. Rigid                   -                                                         -        B        -       -
27.5. Remove
Waveguides:
27.5.1. Flexible                -                                                         -        -        -       -
27.5.2. Rigid                   -                                                         -        -        -       -
27.6. Perform Scheduled
PMIS on:



                                                        68                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                        3D1X7 STS



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                              2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C          D          E
                              WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                               TASKS
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                         Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
27.6.1. Coaxial cables           -                                                         -        B        -       -
27.6.2. Antennas                 -                                                         -        B        -       -
27.6.3. Support Structures       -                                                         b        B        -       -
27.6.4. Antenna Hardware         -                                                         -        B        -       -
27.6.5. Grounding
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Systems
27.7. Use Project Support
Documentation and CSIRs
to:
27.7.1. Install Antenna
                                 -                                                         -        -        -       -
Systems
27.7.2. Maintain Antenna
                                 -                                                         -        A        -       -
Systems
28. COMMUNICATIONS
DISTRIBUTION MAPS,
RECORDS and
DIAGRAMS
TR: TOs 31W3-10-12,
31W3-10-22, 00-33D-
3004-WA-1, 00-33D-3003-
WA-1; AFI 21-404
28.1. Update a
Communications Mission           5                                                         2b       B        -       -
Data Set
29. ELECTRONIC
PRINCIPLES
TR: TO 31-1-141-2WA-1
Ch. 7, 9, and 10
29.1. Identify
Relationships of Basic
Facts Associated with:
29.1.1. Direct Current
                                 -                                                         B        -        -       -
(DC)
29.1.2. Alternating Current
                                 -                                                         B        -        -       -
(AC)
29.1.3. Inductors and
                                 -                                                         B        -        -       -
Capacitors
30. AIR FORCE JOB
QUALIFICATION
STANDARDS
APPLICABLE TO 3D1XX
AFSCs
TR: AFI 33-150, 33-154,
MPTO 00-33A-1001,
CFETP 3D1X7
30.1. AFJQS3D1XX-201C
Corrosion Prevention and         5                                                         -        -        -       -
Control




                                                         69                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                     3D1X7 STS



                                                                                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                               3. CERTIFICATION FOR OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                           2. CORE                                                                PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                               &                                                      3 SKILL 5 SKILL 7 SKILL 9 SKILL
AND TECHNICAL                         A       B        C          D          E
                           WARTIME                                                    LEVEL     LEVEL    LEVEL   LEVEL
REFERENCES
                            TASKS
                                     START   STOP   TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFIER
                                                                                      Course   CDC      OJT      OJT
                                     DATE    DATE   INITIALS   INITIALS    INITIALS
31. AIR FORCE JOB
QUALIFICATION
STANDARDS
APPLICABLE TO 3DXXX
AFSCs
TR: AFI 33-150, 33-154,
MPTO 00-33A-1001,
CFETP 3D1X7
31.1. AFJQS3DXXX-
200TBA Training Business      5                                                         -        -        -       -
Area (TBA) Handbook
31.2. AFQTP3DXXX-
201M Cyberspace
                              7                                                         -        -        -       -
Infrastructure Planning
System (CIPS)
31.3. AFQTP3DXXX-213R
Support Agreements and
                              7                                                         -        -        -       -
Administrative Contract
Management




                                                      70                                                 Attachment 2
Section B - Course Objective List
4. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows: W indicates task or subject knowledge which
is measured using a written test, PC indicates required task performance which is measured with a
performance progress check and PC/W indicates separate measurement of both knowledge and
performance elements using a written test and a progress check.
5. Standard. The standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for performance measurement
are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress checklist. Instructor assistance is
provided as needed during the progress check and students may be required to repeat all or part of the
behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.
6. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level which means the
student can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially
proficient). The student can also determine step by step procedures for doing the task.
7. Course Objectives. These objectives are listed in the sequence taught by Block of Instruction.
Because the communications career field is ever changing, we are providing a website with a "living"
course objective list (COL). As changes are made to the courses they will also be made to the website.
Use the following link to the 364 TRS to locate the COL. https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=s6925EC1349E80FB5E044080020E329A9.
Section C - Support Materials
8. The following list of support materials is not all-inclusive; however, it covers the most frequently
referenced areas. The most current products can be found at the 81 TRSS/TSQ webpage and are
available for download from the web site at
https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/20946/AFKN_Docs/Forms/AllItems.aspx. Procedures for requesting product
development are found in AFI 33-154.
Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs applicable to AFSC 3D1X7:

Publication No.                 Pseudo File        Publication Title
AFJQS3D1X7-202FB                    N/A            DD-140 Antenna Tower Vehicle
AFJQS3D1X7-208J                     N/A            Parabolic Antenna Installation
AFJQS3D1X7-210C                     N/A            AS-3482/GRC Heavy Weight Antenna
AFJQS3D1X7-210D                     N/A            UHF/VHF Antenna (AT-197, AS-1097, AS-1181)
                                                   Installation/Maintenance
AFJQS3D1X7-210F                     N/A            437C Monopole Antenna System
AFJQS3D1X7-210N                     N/A            Telephone Cable Systems Testing
Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs applicable to AFSC 3D1XX:

Publication No.                 Pseudo File        Publication Title
AFJQS3D1XX-200F                     N/A            Engineering Installation (EI) Team Chief
AFJQS3D1XX-201P                     N/A            Work Center Test Equipment Management
AFJQS3D1XX-201X                     N/A            Engineering Installation (EI) Quality Assurance
AFQTP3D1XX-200S                     N/A            Basic/Advance Soldiering




                                                     71
Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs applicable to AFSC 3DXXX:

Publication No.                Pseudo File         Publication Title
AFJQS3DXXX-201F                    N/A             Communications Focal Point
AFJQS3DXXX-201G                    N/A             Quality Assurance
AFJQS3DXXX-213I                    N/A             Military Construction Program
AFJQS3DXXX-230T                    N/A             Remedy
AFQTP3DXXX-200D                    N/A             Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS)
                                                   Handbook
AFQTP3DXXX-202A                    N/A             Electrostatic Discharge Handbook
Section D - Training Course Index
9. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for continuation/
supplemental training. For information on all formal courses, refer to the Air Force Education and
Training Course Announcements (ETCA) database at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/

10. Air Force In-Residence Courses.
    Course Number                                 Course Title                         Location
  J3AZR3D157 0C0B        Tower Climbing and Certifier Course                         Sheppard
  J7AST3D157 0C0B        Tower Climbing and Certifier Course                         MTT
  J8AZR3D157 0F5A        Fiber Optic Cable Installation, Splicing and Maintenance    Sheppard
  J7AST3D157 0F5A        Fiber Optic Cable Installation, Splicing and Maintenance    MTT
11. Air University Courses.
For a current listing of Air University courses go to http://www.au.af.mil/au/index.asp.

12. Exportable Courses.

For a current list of the available CBT courses refer to https://www.my.af.mil/faf/FAF/fafHome.jsp
(Under AF e-Learning) or Defense Acquisition University at http://www.dau.mil/default.aspx.




                                                     72
Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements
13. The following courses are provided by the Air National Guard in support of the Engineering and
Installation mission. They are open to all active, reserve, and guard military and civilians.

  Course                                   Course Description                                                   Location
Standard         This course familiarizes students with outside plant installation, knots, hitches   The Lightning Force Academy
Installation     and splices; survey and antenna layout; grounding and bonding; antenna              (LFA) course schedule available
Practices and    systems protection, pole stepping, anchors, and supports; erection of steel         on the home page is for your use
Techniques,      towers; pressurization of waveguide systems; RF connectors and cables;              in scheduling students for FY-09.
Cable            antenna systems maintenance, repair, and testing; and using a transit. This         Field unit LFA POCs should
/Antenna         course will also encompass Antenna installations skills: grounding and              request slots and reserve seats,
(9 days)         bonding; anchoring devices; outside plant installation; TMX 412 Gas                 in writing (email), to LFA
                 Detector; splicing activities; fanning and forming; terminating and soldering;      Registrar.
                 outside plant cable testing; outside plant cable pressurization; and installation   LFA.REGISTRAR@PAHARR.AN
                 of cable racks.                                                                     G.AF.MIL
Standard         This course familiarizes students with marking site layouts; anchoring
Installation     devices; cable racks, and supports; erection and assembly of CE equipment;          COMM: 717-861-1010
Practices and    grounding and bonding; power distribution; cabling; fanning and forming;            DSN: 423-1010
Techniques,      terminating and soldering; cross-connections; RF connectors and cables;             Fax: x-1060
Electronics      and equipment designations.
(9 days)                                                                                             15010 Range Road
Network          This course familiarizes students with LAN standards; LAN media; topology;          Ft Indiantown Gap Annville PA,
Infrastructure   protocols; installation guidelines; distribution systems; inter-networking;         17003
(9 days)         testing and troubleshooting of category UTP cables; and certification of
                 LANs. BICSI and EIA/TIA standards are stressed. Outside plant/backbone              Home Page
                 fiber and splice-casing fiber optic media; fiber optic safety; fiber optic          http://www.milvet.state.pa.us/air_
                 fundamentals; optical fiber; fiber optic cables; installations; project package;    national/lightningforce/index.htm
                 PSS; interconnection devices; fiber optic applications and testing and
                 measurement techniques.
Data             These two courses are segmented and instructed independently. They serve
Collection &     to offer an unified end product – a reliable, functional and maintainable
GeoBase          facilities and infrastructure mapping/ drawing system. Students will use GPS
(5 days)         collection methods, database populating tools and spatial data standards.
                 Additionally, students will have first-level instruction on the computer
                 interface drawing and storage methodologies.
Team Chief       This course provides formal classroom training on the numerous
(9 days)         administrative, managerial, and supervisory responsibilities of the worldwide
                 deployable Team Chief.
Project          This course provides formal classroom training to acquaint CS project
Engineering      engineers and newly assigned engineers with the various intricacies and
(9 days)         communications disciplines for their real world workload.

Quality          This course covers the administration, tasks, and responsibilities of EI
Assurance        Quality Assurance personnel. All blocks of instruction are based upon real
(5 days)         world scenarios, ACCI 33-104, and the QA QTP.

Project          This course targets the EI Workload Control position and other EI personnel
Management       involved in project management. Planning, financing, and overall project
(5 days)         oversight (engineering, installation, QA, and customer coordination) are the
                 focus of this course. Additionally, Microsoft Project software is introduced
                 and utilized.




                                                                       73
