DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                         CFETP 1N0X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                           Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                           1 January 2013




                           AFSC 1N0X1
                    OPERATIONS INTELLIGENCE




                        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                           AND TRAINING PLAN




ACCESSIBILTY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILTY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                          CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                      Operations Intelligence
                                          AFSC 1N0X1

                                                Table of Contents

Part I

Preface                                                                   4


Abbreviations/Terms Explained                                             5


Section A, General Information                                            9
Purpose of the CFETP
Use of the CFETP
Coordination and Approval of the CFETP


Section B, Career Progression and Information                         10
Specialty Description
Skill/Career Progression
         Apprentice Level (3)
         Journeyman Level (5)
         Craftsman Level (7)
         Superintendent Level (9)
Training Decisions
Community College of the Air Force
Career Field Path


Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements                         15
Purpose
Specialty Qualifications
Apprentice Level (3)
Journeyman Level (5)
Craftsman Level (7)
Superintendent Level (9)


Section D, Resource Constraints                                      18


Part II

Section A, Specialty Training Standards                              19

Section B, Support Materials                                         32

Section C, Training Course Index                                     33

Section D, MAJCOM Unique Training                                    35




                                                       2
OPR: 315 TRS/XP
Certified By: HQ USAF/A2DFM (MSgt Kevin J Pantalo)
Supersedes: CFETP 1N0X1, 20 Jan 2009 and CFETP 1N0X1 Change 1, 1 Dec 2011
                                           Total Pages: 35




                                                 3
                                    OPERATIONS INTELLIGENCE
                                           AFSC 1N0X1
                            CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN


Part I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and training document that
identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support resources, and minimum core task
requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and will instill
rigor in all aspects of career field training. NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to
support duty position qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts; both parts of the plan are used by supervisors to plan, manage, and control
training within the career field.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains how
everyone will use the plan; Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and responsibilities,
training strategies, and career field path; Section C associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge,
education, training…); Section D indicates resource constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment,
facilities; Section E, when used, identifies transition training guide requirements.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes duties,
tasks, technical references to support training, Air Education and Training Command (AETC) conducted training,
wartime course, core task, and correspondence course requirements; Section B contains the course objective list and
training standards supervisors will use to determine if Airmen satisfied training requirements; Section C identifies
available support materials. An example is a Qualification Training Package (QTP), which may be developed to
support proficiency training. These packages are identified in AFIND8, Numerical Index of Specialized Educational
Training Publications; Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use to determine resources
available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional courses; Section E identifies
MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the
associated qualification needs.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive effective and efficient
training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to train today's work force for tomorrow's
jobs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate
with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                           4
                               ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED
Advanced Training (AT). Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one or more positions of
their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field.
Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). An individual on the Headquarters United States AF staff who is
responsible for career development programs, functional management and utilization, specialty standards and
requirements, training, and force management for a family of Air Force Specialties (1NXXX). This includes
identifying the task requirements and training for an AF specialty (AFS) or occupational series. This individual will
review and/or approve all proposed changes to specialties within their career family.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list which describes a particular job type
or duty position. They are used by supervisors to document task qualifications. The tasks on AFJQS/CJQS are
common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Air Force Specialty (AFS). A group of duty positions that require common qualifications identified by a title and
code.

Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC). A combination of alpha-numeric characters which are used to identify a
specific career field and qualification level for Air Force officers and enlisted personnel.

Air Force Specialty Manager (AFSM). An individual on HQ USAF staff, responsible to the AFCFM for
overseeing all aspects of a particular AFS (1N0XX). Coordinates with MAJCOM functional and training managers,
technical training center personnel, Career Development Course writers, and various SMEs on career path
development and identification of Career Field Education and Training Plan training tasks items to meet national,
tactical, and force training requirements. Other responsibilities include reviewing AFS manpower utilization,
managing AFS classification guidance, and overall status of the health of their particular AFS.

Bachelor of Science in Intelligence (BSI). The BSI degree is offered through the National Intelligence University
as a fourth year degree completion program that affords those students who have earned three years of
undergraduate credits a means of completing their degree requirements. The 11 month intelligence curriculum
consists of eleven core courses and six electives to include a summer term capstone project focusing on a current
intelligence issue.

Career Development Course (CDC). Self-paced, correspondence course published to provide the information
necessary to satisfy the career knowledge component of on-the-job training (OJT). These courses are developed
from references identified in the CFETP correlating with mandatory knowledge items listed in the Air Force
Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD). CDCs will contain information on basic principles, techniques, and
procedures common to an AFSC. They do not contain information on specific equipment or tasks unless best
illustrating a procedure or technique having utility to the entire AFSC.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive, multipurpose document
encapsulating the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines a logical growth plan that
includes training resources and is designed to make career field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to
ensure this training is budget defensible.

Career Training Guide (CTG). A document that uses Task Modules (TMs) in lieu of tasks to define performance
and training requirements for a career field.

Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM). A five-digit code ending in “00” to identify CMSgt and CMSgt selectees as top
enlisted managers in both highly technical skills and in broad areas of managerial competence.




                                                           5
Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present or future duty
assignments.

Core Intelligence Training (CIT). Fundamental training across the 1NXXX Career Field.

Core Task. A task AFCFMs identify as a minimum qualification requirement within an Air Force specialty or duty
position. Core Tasks for the AFS can be either task- or knowledge-based and are the STS line items fundamental to
meeting these core competencies. Each MAJCOM is responsible for developing the minimum standard to which
each core task will be trained. Core tasks are common to all personnel within an AFS required to perform
intelligence functions. The skills (or knowledge) must be trained, maintained, and certified, regardless of duty
position/location and are based upon skill level.

Core Functions. The mission of the U.S. Air Force is to defend the United States and protect its interests through
air and space power. The Air Force Core Functions, assigned by the Secretary of Defense and recognized by the
Joint community, provide a framework for balancing investments across Air Force capabilities. USAF’s twelve core
functions: nuclear deterrence, air superiority, space superiority, cyberspace superiority, global precision attack,
rapid global mobility, special operations, global integrated intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR),
command and control (C2), personnel recovery, building partnerships, and agile combat support.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication, derived from initial/advanced skills course training standard,
identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-5-7-skill level in
this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-
2201, Air Force Training Program.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other necessary
means to supplement training.

Field Evaluation Questionnaire (FEQ). An extensive survey based on the CFETP to determine how well the
formal training met the apprentice levels outlined in the CFETP. This survey is sent approximately 6 months after
graduation to the Base Education and Training Manager, if unclassified, or direct to the unit training manager, if
classified.

Field Technical Training. Special or regular on-site training conducted by a field training detachment (FTD),
Formal Training Unit (FTU) or by a mobile training team (MTT).

Graduate Assessment Survey (GAS). Survey conducted in accordance with AFI 36-2201. Used by recent
graduates to evaluate the quality of formal training received and its applicability to their job. The data is used to
determine the effectiveness of, and need for changes in training.

Initial Qualification Training (IQT). IQT is training needed to qualify intelligence personnel for basic duties in an
assigned position for a specific MDS, Weapon System, Intelligence function or activity without regard for a unit’s
specific mission.

Initial Skills Training. Skills received while attending a formal technical school that results in the award of a 3-skill
level in an AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible process for planning, developing,
implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel are taught in a cost efficient way the
knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job performance.

Intelligence Occupational Badge. Wear the basic badge after completing technical school. Wear the senior badge
after award of the 7-skill level, and wear the master badge as a Master Sergeant or above with 5 years in the
specialty from award of the 7-skill level. For retrainees, credit toward new badges starts upon entry into the new
AFSC. EXCEPTION: Chief Master Sergeants cross-flowed into a new CEM Code wear the basic badge of their
new career field upon award of the CEM Code, the senior badge after 12 months, and the master badge after 5 years.
Ref AFI 36-2903.



                                                            6
MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM). An individual at the MAJCOM/Joint activity command level who is
responsible for identifying task and training requirements for an AFS or Occupational Series and is responsible for
validating intelligence requirements, command assignment entitlements, technical school graduate assignments and
matching available manpower resources to meet the MAJCOM’s needs.

Master of Science in Strategic Intelligence (MSSI). The MSSI program confers a graduate degree by completing
600-and 700-level courses, plus a master’s thesis on an intelligence-related topic. This program is offered on a full-
time or part-time basis. This graduate program is open to Air Force active duty, ANG and reserve in the grades of
E-5 through E-9, O-2 through O-4, and civilian counterparts.

MASTER OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INTELLIGENCE (MSTI). The MSTI is a graduate degree
program requiring completion of an 11-month course of study consisting of seven core courses and seven electives,
as well as a Master’s Thesis. Coursework will include opportunities for study in areas such as Weapons of Mass
Destruction, Energy and Power Systems, and Information Operations and Cyber. This program is offered on a full-
time and part-time basis. This graduate program is open to Air Force active duty, ANG and reserve in the grades of
E-5 through E-9, O-2 through O-4, and civilian counterparts.

Mission Qualification Training (MQT). MQT follows IQT and is training needed to qualify intelligence personnel
to perform their specific unit mission in an assigned mission position. Completion of Specialty Training Standard
task and knowledge training requirements may be accomplished concurrently with MQT.

National Intelligence University (NIU). NIU is an accredited academic institution charted by Congress and the
Joint Chiefs of Staff to prepare intelligence professionals for positions at Joint, Air Staff, and MAJCOM levels.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey of tasks
performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify personnel in both upgrade
(skill level award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training.

Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-
job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an individual in a
specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel on-the-job training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package. An instructional package used at the unit to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty
position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Reporting Identifier (RI). Identify authorizations and individual enlisted airmen who, for any reason, are not
identifiable in the classification structure.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and equipment that
preclude desired training from being delivered.

Skills Training. A formal course that results in the award of a skill level.

Special Duty Identifier (SDI). Identify authorizations for enlisted airmen assigned to and performing an actual
group of tasks on a semi-permanent or permanent duty basis unrelated to any specific career field. Career
Assistance Advisors are represented by the SDI 8A100.

Special Experience Identifier (SEIs). A three-character designator that identifies specific experience or expertise
within a particular career field. Established when experience or training is critical to a job. SEIs complement the



                                                           7
assignment process but are not substitutes for AFSCs, CEM codes, prefixes, suffixes, SDIs, RIs, assignment
instruction codes, and professional specialty course codes. Additionally, SEIs can serve as a tool for commanders to
ensure personnel are placed/utilized correctly within an organization.

Specialty Training and Requirements Team (STRT)/Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum
co-chaired by the AFCFM and AF Training Pipeline Manager comprised of MAJCOM Functional Managers,
Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training a personnel that determines education and training requirements
and establishes the most effective mix of formal and on-the-job training for each AFSC. The forum will create or
revise training standards, and set responsibilities for providing training. As a quality control tool, the STRT/U&TW
will be used to ensure the validity and viability of the AFS training that determines career ladder training
requirements.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-job) to qualify and
upgrade Airmen in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes skills and knowledge that Airman in a
particular Air Force specialty needs on the job. It further serves as a contract between the Air Education and
Training Command and the user to show the overall training requirements for an Air Force specialty code that the
formal schools teach.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by authority, custom, or
common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities or qualities, establishing practices or
procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed quantity or quality.

Supplemental Training. Formal training on equipment, methods, and technology not suited for on-the-job training
and not included in AFS upgrade training.

Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW, however TPTs are more
intimately involved in training development and the range of issues are greater than those normally covered in the
U&TW forum.

Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training that leads to attainment of higher level of proficiency.

Wartime Skills. Wartime skills/tasks training are initiated based upon a national emergency. These wartime skills
are identified by the letter “w” in the 3-level position of the STS and will be taught at an accelerated course at
Goodfellow AFB while the trainee is going through technical training school. NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items
shown with a proficiency code in this CFETP are trained during wartime.




                                                          8
                                        Section A - General Information
1. Purpose This CFETP provides information necessary for AFCFM, AFSM, MAJCOM functional managers
(MFMs), commanders, training managers, supervisors and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an
effective career field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in this AFS should receive in
order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification,
advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an individual receives upon
entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training is
conducted by AETC at one of the technical training centers. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task
qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 5-, 7- and 9-skill
levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an Airman in a
specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is
designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty
training used for selected Airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable
advanced training courses, or on-the-job training provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade. This CFETP also serves the following purposes:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field-training program. Also, it is
used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an individual's career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and recommends
education/training throughout each phase of an individual's career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints, which impact, full implementation of the desired career field training
process.

2. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive and cohesive
training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, field and exportable training based
on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the
AFCFM and AFSM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified
training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade, and proficiency
requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable
courses. MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFSC must be identified for inclusion into this plan.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The lists of courses in
Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

2.4. Converting to New CFETP. Use the new CFETP to identify and certify all past and current qualifications. For
those previously certified and required in the current duty position, evaluate current qualifications and, when
verified, re-certify using current date as completion date and enter trainee's initials and certifier's initials. For non-
core and non-critical tasks previously certified and required in the current duty position, enter trainee's and trainer's
initials. When transcribing previous certification for tasks not required in the current duty position, carry forward
only the previous completion date of certification (not the initials of another person). If and when transcribed tasks
become duty position requirements, re-certify using current date and standard certification procedures. The person
whose initials appear in the trainer or certifier block during the transcription process must meet the requirements of
their respective roles. Upon completion of the transcription process, give the old CFETP to the member.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. The AFSM, MAJCOM representatives,
and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements. The AETC



                                                            9
training manager for this specialty will initiate an annual review of this document by AETC and MFMs to ensure
currency and accuracy. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

                             Section B - Career Progression and Information
4. Specialty Description.

4.1. Specialty Summary.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities. Analyzes multiple sources of information in developing, evaluating, and
disseminating intelligence on potential threats to U.S. and allied forces. . Related DoD Occupational Subgroup:
124300.

4.2.1. Operate in a diverse and complex operational environment, supporting all aspects of Air Force operations to
ensure US dominance in air, space and cyberspace. Supports Joint force, Department of Defense, and national
intelligence agency operations.

4.2.2. Advises commanders on threats to US and allied forces and missions as well as Intelligence, Surveillance and
Reconnaissance (ISR) capabilities and employment. Provides analysis of adversary threat systems and intelligence
expertise necessary to develop detailed execution plans for air, space, and cyberspace operations. Uses state-of-the-
art technology to produce all-source intelligence, situation estimates, order-of-battle studies, and other intelligence
reports and studies. Assembles maps, charts, and performs threat analysis in support of mission planning. Prepares
and presents intelligence reports and briefings. Conducts intelligence debriefings of US and allied military
personnel involved in combat operations. Prepares mission reports. Participates in the installation-level Threat
Working Group (TWG).

4.2.3. Conducts external intelligence training. Instructs aircrews, security forces, explosive ordinance disposal and
others on collecting and reporting requirements and procedures, recognition techniques, and assessing offensive and
defensive weapon system capabilities. Assists Survival Evasion Resistance and Escape (SERE) and Life Support
personnel in training evasion and recovery and code of conduct.

4.2.4. Assesses vulnerabilities of US forces’ telecommunications networks/information which could be collected and
exploited by adversaries. Systematically assesses data using analytical procedures to document threats, isolate
existing/potential vulnerabilities, identify procedures for minimizing/eliminating vulnerabilities, and recommend
Information Operations (IO) techniques to exploit vulnerabilities to a friendly advantage.

5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the superintendent
skill level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone
involved in training must do their part to plan, manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance
provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable training at appropriate points in their
career.

5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Initial skills training in this specialty consists of the tasks and knowledge provided in the
3-skill level resident course (XABR1N031 0A6B) taught at Goodfellow AFB, TX. Initial skills training
requirements were identified during the STRT held February 2012 at Goodfellow AFB, TX and validated during the
U&TW in June 2012. Individuals must complete the initial skills course to be awarded AFSC 1N031.

5.2. Journeyman (5) Level. To qualify for 5-skill level, Airmen must: (1) complete duty position qualification
training; (2) complete the 1NX and 1N0 5-level Career Development Courses (CDC); (3) complete 12 months UGT
(9 months for retrainees); (4) meet mandatory requirements listed in the specialty description in the Air Force
Enlisted Classification Directory (ECD) and CFETP; and (5) be recommended by their supervisor. UGT consists of
completing duty position training/certification, any specified core task training, and appropriate courses as outlined
in the CFETP.




                                                          10
5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. To qualify for award of the 7-level, Airmen must (1) be a SSgt or higher, (2) complete
mandatory CDC’s (if applicable), core tasks identified in the CFETP and other duty position tasks identified by the
supervisor, unit or HHQ (3) meet mandatory requirements listed in the specialty description in the Air Force
Enlisted ECD and CFETP, (4) complete a minimum of 12 months in upgrade training (6 months if a retrainee) , and
(5) recommended by the supervisor for award of the 7-skill level. Individuals in retraining status are subject to the
same requirements and must complete a minimum of six months in UGT.

5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. Must be at least a Senior Master Sergeant (SMSgt) and meet mandatory
requirements listed in the AFECD, be recommended by their supervisor and approved by their commander for
award of the 9-skill level.

5.5. Intelligence Occupational Badge. Wear the basic badge after completing technical school. Wear the senior
badge after award of the 7-skill level, and wear the master badge as a Master Sergeant or above with 5 years in the
specialty from award of the 7-skill level. For retrainees, credit toward new badges starts upon entry into the new
AFSC. EXCEPTION: Chief Master Sergeants cross-flowed into a new CEM Code wear the basic badge of their
new career field upon award of the CEM Code, the senior badge after 12 months, and the master badge after 5 years.
Ref AFI 36-2903.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass the entire
spectrum of training requirements for the Operations Intelligence Apprentice course. The spectrum includes a
strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable
to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training.

6.1. Initial Skills. The initial skills course was revised to provide training necessary to prepare graduates for
electronic signals intelligence exploitation specialty requirements and related duty positions.

6.2. Five-Level Upgrade Requirements. Personnel must complete a minimum of 12 months OJT (or 9 months for
retrainees), complete 1NX51 CDC and the 1N051 CDC, and become certified on the core tasks identified in Part II,
Section A of this document for award of the 1N051 AFSC.

6.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Requirements. Personnel must be SSgt or SSgt Select, complete unit-directed training
for 7-level qualification, 12 months UGT (or 6 months for retrainees) and complete 1N071 CDC if established.

6.4. Proficiency.

6.4.1. Proficiency Standard. Units will determine proficiency requirements for 1N0X1 personnel in order to meet
core task standards.

6.4.2. Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-
the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for
upgrade.

6.4.2.1. General Guidance:
    Unit commanders retain the right to increase weekly training time.
    Documentation in training records will include the following: type of training, duration, time, scores, missed
     training time due to duty or other commitments, problem areas, and plans of action to improve weaknesses.
    The commander may temporarily release participants from mandatory refresher or remedial training for
     mission-related TDYs, or extended leave. All interruptions in training must be documented in training records.
    Individuals enrolled in remedial training are not exempt from performing assigned 1N051/1N071 operation’s
     duties.
    Entry into remedial training does not impact operational duty position qualification status.




                                                           11
7. Community College of the Air Force. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military training.
CCAF provides intelligence personnel in AFSC 1N0X1 the opportunity to obtain an Associates in Applied Sciences
Degree in Intelligence Studies and Technology. In addition to its associate’s degree program, CCAF offers the
following.

7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification training, consisting of the
instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF instructors who possess an associate’s degree or
higher may be nominated by their school commander/commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.

7.2. CCAF Instructor Certification. It provides CCAF faculty a structured professional development track and
tangible recognition for advanced levels of knowledge, skills, education and training, and instructional experience.
The strengthened CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) program aligns well with comparable state teacher
certification requirements.

7.3. CCAF Professional Manager Certification. This program provides a validating credentialing process, which
recognizes the SNCO’s leadership and management education, skills and experience. In addition, the program
provides Air Force SNCOs with a structured professional development track that supplements Enlisted Professional
Military education (EPME) and Career Field Education and Training Plans.

7.4. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill certification is awarded for
the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a competency based assessment process for trade skill
certification at one of four proficiency levels: Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman/Supervisor, or Master
Craftsman/Manager. All are transcribed on the CCAF transcript.

7.5. Degree Requirements. Prior to completing an associate’s degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the
following requirements must be met:
        Degree Requirements                                                    Semester Hours
        Technical Education                                                         24
        Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                                 6
        Physical Education                                                           4
        General Education                                                           15
        Program Elective: Technical Education; Leadership,                          15
        Management, and Military Studies; or General
        Education
         Total                                                                        64

7.5.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical Core
subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from Technical Core/Technical Elective
courses.

7.5.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional military education
and/or civilian management courses.

7.5.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of Basic Military
Training.

7.5.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for the General
Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with the definitions of applicable General Education
subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

7.5.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education; Leadership,
Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including natural science courses
meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree applicable technical credit otherwise not



                                                          12
applicable to this program may be applied. See the CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of
Applied Science for this specialty.

7.6. Degree Programs:

7.6.1. National Intelligence University (NIU)

7.6.1.1. Description: NIU is a regionally accredited institution offering military and civilian personnel working in
intelligence or intelligence/security-related specialties the opportunity to enroll in professional intelligence
undergraduate or graduate-level study in full- or part-time programs. Coursework concentrates on a variety of
intelligence disciplines to include collection; analysis; regional studies; information operations; intelligence,
surveillance and reconnaissance; national security issues; and strategic intelligence in the joint environment. NIU
educates future leaders who are full partners with their policy, planning, and operations counterparts and who are
able to anticipate and tailor the intelligence required at the national, theater and tactical levels. Classes have an
Intelligence Community student mix from all services and the federal government. The college is located in the
Defense Intelligence Analysis Center (DIAC) on Bolling AFB, Washington, DC.

7.6.1.2. Bachelor of Science in Intelligence (BSI): The BSI degree is offered through the National Intelligence
University as a fourth year degree completion program that affords those students who have earned three years of
undergraduate credits a means of completing their degree requirements. The 11 month intelligence curriculum
consists of eleven core courses and six electives to include a summer term capstone project focusing on a current
intelligence issue.

7.6.1.3. Masters of Science in Strategic Intelligence (MSSI): The MSSI program confers a graduate degree by
completing 600-and 700-level courses, plus a master’s thesis on an intelligence-related topic. This program is
offered on a full-time or part-time basis. This graduate program is open to Air Force active duty, ANG and reserve
in the grades of E-5 through E-9, O-2 through O-4, and civilian counterparts.

7.6.1.4. Masters of Science and Technology Intelligence (MSTI): The MSTI is a graduate degree program
requiring completion of an 11-month course of study consisting of seven core courses and seven electives as well as
a Master’s thesis. Coursework will include opportunities for study in areas such as weapons of mass destruction,
energy and power systems, and information operations and cyber. Prerequisite: Baccalaureate degree from a
regionally accredited academic institution and the Graduate Record Exam (GRE) for those who do not already have
a master’s degree from a regionally accredited institution.

7.6.1.5. Eligibility Criteria:

A. NIU programs are open to military service members and U.S. government employees who are U.S. citizens and
who hold finalized Top Secret/SCI clearances.

B. The program is open to Air Force active duty and Reserve Component NCOs in the grades of E-5 select through
E-9 and civilians from GG-09 to GG-15.

C. Applicants must have four years intelligence or intelligence-related experience for the BSI program and 5 Years
for the MSSI and MSTI programs.

D. Military applicants must be PCS eligible. Further criteria are defined annually and conveyed via an AF/A2
message to the field.

E. Military members must have three years retainability upon class graduation. Personnel will incur a three-year
active duty service commitment upon graduation/program completion.

F. Military members must have completed Professional Military Education commensurate with their grade.

G. Individuals who have previously attended the NIU undergraduate program or any other intern-type program may
still apply for graduate studies but must have at least four years between attendances.



                                                          13
    7.6.1.6. Application Process: Air Staff calls for nominations for this program annually in the summer timeframe via
    formal message traffic. For further information on applying to the National Intelligence University, visit
    http://www.dia.mil/university/ .

    7.7. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become an
    Air Education and Training Command Instructor should be actively pursuing an associate’s degree. A degreed
    faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.


    8. Career Field Path

Table 8.1. Enlisted Career Path
                                                                         GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training Requirements                 Rank          Average    Earliest   High Year Of Tenure
                                                                  Sew-On     Sew-On           (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)          Amn         6 months
Course number                                        A1C        10 Months
Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                Amn
- Minimum 12 months upgrade training.                A1C        10 months
- Minimum 9 months upgrade training for              SrA         3 years        28 months                   10 Years
Retrainees.
- Complete 5-skill level CDCs
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                                       Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service     - Qualified and certified to perform the task to be trained.
or be an SSgt Selectee.                            - Must attend Air Force Training Course.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                 SSgt         4.3 years       3 years                  15 Years
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- 12 months OJT.
- 6 months OJT for retrainees.
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
- Attend Craftsman course, if applicable.
                                                                                     Certifier
                                                   - Possess at least a SSgt with a 5-skill level or civilian equivalent
                                                   - Attend Air Force Training Course.
                                                   - Be a person other than the trainer.
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)               TSgt        8.5 years        5 years                    20 Years
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt     MSgt       14.5 years        8 years                   24 Years
sew-on (Active Duty Only).
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                     SMSgt       17.5 years       11 years                   26 Years
- Must be a MSgt or SMSgt


  Upgrade to Superintendent (9-Skill Level)         CMSgt       21.5 years       14 years                   30 Years
         - Minimum rank of SMSgt




                                                             14
                              Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements
9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and knowledge
requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level in broad, general
terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each skill level. The specific
task and knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A and B of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualifications.

10.1. Apprentice Level Training:

10.1.1. Specialty Qualification.

10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: intelligence organizations and systems; collection and reporting
systems, procedures, and methods; intelligence sources; techniques of identifying, collating, evaluating, and
analyzing information; geographical and cultural aspects of foreign countries; current military capabilities and
employment tactics of potential enemy offensive and defensive weapon systems; special operations; procedures for
acquiring, updating, and maintaining intelligence documents, maps, and charts; map and chart use techniques;
graphic, oral, and written presentation; support to targeting; capabilities and application of automated data handling
and management systems; security classification marking and control; US sensor systems; regional physical
characteristics relative to radar significance; basic electromagnetic theory; computerized systems supporting
mission planning digital terrain and feature databases.

10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school or General Education Development
equivalency, with courses in public speaking, journalism, geography, modern world history, statistics, algebra,
geometry, and trigonometry is desirable.

10.1.1.3. Training. For award of this skill level, completion of the Operations Intelligence Apprentice
Course is mandatory.

10.1.1.4. Experience. For award of AFSC 1N031, completion of Intelligence Fundamentals Course and Operations
Intelligence Course is mandatory.

10.1.1.5. Other.

10.1.1.5.1. No speech disorders or noticeable communications deficiencies as defined by AFI 48-123.

10.1.1.5.2. Specialty requires routine access to Top Secret material or similar environment. For award and retention
of AFSCs 1N031, 1N051, and 1N071, completion of a current Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI)
according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, is mandatory.

10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of the Operations Intelligence Apprentice Course
(X3ABR1N031 0A6B) at Goodfellow AFB, TX satisfies the knowledge and task performance training
requirements specified in the specialty qualification section (above) for award of the 3-skill level. The COL (Part
II, Section B of this CFETP) identifies all the knowledge and tasks with their respective standards.

10.1.3. Implementation. Entry into training is accomplished through the established pipeline training process and by
approved retraining from any AFSC at the 5-skill level or higher (or 3-skill level, if no 5-skill level exists).

10.2. Journeyman Level Training:

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification.

10.2.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: intelligence organizations and systems; collection and reporting
systems, procedures, and methods; intelligence sources; techniques of identifying, collating, evaluating, and
analyzing information; geographical and cultural aspects of foreign countries; current military capabilities and


                                                          15
employment tactics of potential enemy offensive and defensive weapon systems; special operations; procedures for
acquiring, updating, and maintaining intelligence documents, maps, and charts; map and chart use techniques;
graphic, oral, and written presentation; target planning and materials; capabilities and application of automated data
handling and management systems; security classification marking and control; US sensor systems; regional
physical characteristics relative to radar significance; basic electromagnetic theory; computerized systems
supporting mission planning; digital terrain and feature databases.

10.2.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school or General Education Development
equivalency, with courses in public speaking, journalism, geography, modern world history, statistics, algebra,
geometry, and trigonometry is desirable.

10.2.1.3. Training. For award of this skill level, completion of Intelligence Fundamentals Course and Operations
Intelligence Course is mandatory.

10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1N031 is mandatory.

10.2.1.5. Other.

10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of the Intelligence Fundamentals (1NX) and Operations
Intelligence Journeyman (1N051) CDCs satisfies all knowledge training requirements specified in the specialty
qualification section (above) for award of the 5-skill level. The STS identifies the core tasks required for
qualification. UGT and QT are provided by qualified trainers using the training references identified in the STS and
organizational unique training references, as applicable.

10.2.3. Implementation. Entry into 5-level UGT is initiated after the individual has completed 3-level basic
skills training. Upon entry into UGT, personnel will be administered their CDC and undergo OJT to become
certified in all 5-level core tasks reflected in the STS. Students must complete all CDC volumes at an average
rate of one volume per month with a minimum of 30 days between course completion and the End of Course
(EOC) exam. Additionally, QT is initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties they are not qualified to
perform.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training:

10.3.1. Specialty Qualification.

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: intelligence organizations and systems; collection and reporting
systems, procedures, and methods; intelligence sources; techniques of identifying, collating, evaluating, and
analyzing information; geographical and cultural aspects of foreign countries; current military capabilities and
employment tactics of potential enemy offensive and defensive weapon systems; special operations; procedures for
acquiring, updating, and maintaining intelligence documents, maps, and charts; map and chart use techniques;
graphic, oral, and written presentation; target planning and materials; capabilities and application of automated data
handling and management systems; security classification marking and control; US sensor systems; regional
physical characteristics relative to radar significance; basic electromagnetic theory; computerized systems
supporting mission planning; digital terrain and feature databases.

10.3.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school or General Education Development
equivalency, with courses in public speaking, journalism, geography, modern world history, statistics, algebra,
geometry, and trigonometry is desirable.

10.3.1.3. Training. For award of this skill level, completion of Intelligence Fundamentals Course and Operations
Intelligence Course is mandatory.

10.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1N051 is mandatory.

10.3.1.5. Other.



                                                          16
10.3.1.5.1. No speech disorders or noticeable communications deficiencies as defined by AFI 48-123.

10.3.1.5.2. Specialty requires routine access to Top Secret material or similar environment. For award and retention
of AFSCs 1N031, 1N051, and 1N071, completion of a current Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI)
according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, is mandatory.

10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. The STS identifies the core tasks required for qualification. UGT and
QT are provided by qualified trainers using the training references identified in the STS and organizational unique
training references, as applicable.

10.3.3. Implementation. Entry into 7-level UGT is initiated when an individual possesses the 5-skill level and
receives notification of promotion selection to SSgt. Upon entry into UGT, personnel will be administered their
CDC and undergo OJT to become certified in all 7-level core tasks reflected in the STS. Additionally, QT is
initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties they are not qualified to perform.

10.4. Superintendent Level Training:

10.4.1. Specialty Qualification.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: intelligence organizations and systems; collection and reporting
systems, procedures, and methods; intelligence sources; techniques of identifying, collating, evaluating, and
analyzing information; geographical and cultural aspects of foreign countries; current military capabilities and
employment tactics of potential enemy offensive and defensive weapon systems; special operations; procedures for
acquiring, updating, and maintaining intelligence documents, maps, and charts; map and chart use techniques;
graphic, oral, and written presentation; target planning and materials; capabilities and application of automated data
handling and management systems; security classification marking and control; US sensor systems; regional
physical characteristics relative to radar significance; basic electromagnetic theory; computerized systems
supporting mission planning; digital terrain and feature databases.

10.4.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school or General Education Development
equivalency, with courses in public speaking, journalism, geography, modern world history, statistics, algebra,
geometry, and trigonometry is desirable.

10.4.1.3. Training. For award of this skill level, completion of Intelligence Fundamentals Course and Operations
Intelligence Course is mandatory.

10.4.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1N071 is mandatory. Experience in functions
such as managing activities within the intelligence process; preparing and providing intelligence support to
operations, exercises, or simulations; or producing analytical studies is also mandatory.

10.4.1.5. Other.

10.4.1.5.1. No speech disorders or noticeable communications deficiencies as defined by AFI 48-123.

10.4.1.5.2. Specialty requires routine access to Top Secret material or similar environment. For award and retention
of AFSCs 1N031, 1N051, and 1N071, completion of a current Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI)
according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, is mandatory.

10.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. None.

10.4.3. Implementation. None.




                                                          17
                                      Section D - Resource Constraints
11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints which precludes optimal/desired training from
being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower. Narrative explanations of each
resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint has on training are included.
Also included in this section are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates.
Resource constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

11.1. Apprentice Level Training:

11.1.1 Constraints. None
11.1.2. Impact. None
11.1.3. Resources Required. None
11.1.4. Action Required. None
11.1.5. OPR/Target Completion Date. None

11.2. Five Level Training:

11.2.1 Constraints. None
11.2.2. Impact. None
11.2.3. Resources Required. None
11.2.4. Action Required. None
11.2.5. OPR/Target Completion Date. None

11.3. Seven-Level Training

11.3.1 Constraints. None
11.3.2. Impact. None
11.3.3. Resources Required. None
11.3.4. Action Required. None
11.3.5. OPR/Target Completion Date. None




                                                         18
Part II

                                  Section A - Specialty Training Standard

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, this STS:

2.1. Lists in the column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) in most common tasks, knowledge, and
technical references (TR) necessary for Airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level. Number task
statements sequentially i.e., 1.1, 1.2, 2.1. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies, by an asterisk (*), specialty-wide
training requirements.

2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge training
requirements. Use automated training management systems to document technician qualifications, if available.
Task certification must show a certification/completed date.

2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the proficiency to be
demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task/knowledge and the career knowledge
provided by the correspondence course. See AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit training manager for current
CDC listings.

2.4. Qualitative Requirements. Page 21 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the level of training and
knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.

2.5. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for OJT when placed in AF Form 623, Individual Training Record,
and used according to AFI 36-2201. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:

2.5.1. Documentation. Document IAW AFMAN 36-2201. An AFJQS may be used in lieu of Part II of the CFETP
only upon approval of the AFCFM. NOTE: The AFCFM may supplement these minimum documentation
procedures as needed or deemed necessary for their career field.

2.5.1.1. Converting to New CFETP. Use the new CFETP to identify and certify all past and current qualifications.
For all core and those critical tasks previously certified and required in the current duty position, evaluate current
qualifications and, when verified, re-certify using current date as completion date and enter trainee's initials and
certifier's initials. Remember, during the transcription process no training is taking place. Therefore, the trainer's
initials are not required. For non-core and non-critical tasks previously certified and required in the current duty
position, evaluate current qualifications and when verified, re-certify using current date as completion date and enter
trainee's and trainer's initials. When transcribing previous certification for tasks not required in the current duty
position, carry forward only the previous completion date of certification (not the initials of another person). If and
when transcribed tasks become duty position requirements, re-certify using standard certification procedures. The
person whose initials appear in the trainer or certifier block during the transcription process must meet the
requirements of their respective roles in accordance with AFI 36-2201 series. Upon completion of the transcription
process, give the old CFETP to the member.

2.5.1.2. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available: The supervisor identifies STS training
references that the trainee requires for career knowledge and ensures, at a minimum, that trainees cover the
mandatory items in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (ECD). For two-time CDC course exam failures:
Commanders may direct that supervisors identify all STS items corresponding to the areas covered by the CDC.
The trainee completes a study of STS references, undergoes evaluation by the task certifier, and receives
certification on the STS. NOTE: Career knowledge must be documented prior to submitting a CDC waiver.

2.5.1.3. Decertification and Re-certification. When an Airman is found to be unqualified on a task previously
certified for his or her position, the supervisor lines through the previous certification or deletes previous
certification when using an automated system. Appropriate remarks are entered on the AF Form 623a, On-The-Job


                                                          19
Training Record Continuation Sheet, as to the reason for decertification. The individual is re-certified (if required)
either by erasing the old entries and writing in the new or by using correction fluid (if the entries were made in ink)
over the previously certified entry. NOTE: Entry should always be in pencil.

2.5.2. Training Standard. Tasks are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. Go means the individual can
perform the task to the designated proficiency level and meet local demands for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use
of procedures.

2.6. This CFETP is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System
(WAPS). A team of senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career field develops Specialty
Knowledge Tests (SKT) at the USAF Occupational Measurement Squadron. The tests sample knowledge of STS
subject matter areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades.
Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in Chapter
1.19 of AFI 36-2502, AIRMAN PROMOTION PROGRAM. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard.

3. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates. Reference this STS and
address unclassified correspondence to: 17th Training Group, ATTN: CCME, 170 Griffin Street, Goodfellow AFB,
Texas 76908-4211. Address classified correspondence to 17TRG.CCME@GOODFELLOW.IC.GOV . A 24-hour
Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) has been installed for the supervisor’s convenience to identify
demonstrated over- or under-training on performance/knowledge items listed in this training standard. For quick
response to any training concerns, call the CSIL, DSN 477-3350, any time day or night. Reference specific STS
paragraphs.


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                                LARRY D. JAMES, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                        DCS for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance




                                                           20
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
                                                      Name of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                      Initials (Written)           SSAN

Printed Name of Certifying Official and Written Initials
N/I                                                         N/I

N/I                                                         N/I

N/I                                                         N/I

N/I                                                         N/I

N/I                                                         N/I

N/I                                                         N/I


                                                QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                   Proficiency Code Key
                             Scale    Definition: The individual
                             Value
                               1     Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task.
                                     (Extremely Limited)
            Task               2     Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
       Performance             3     Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
          Levels               4     Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do
                                     the task. (Highly Proficient)
                               a     Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
           *Task               b     Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
        Knowledge              c     Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                     (Operating Principles)
          Levels               d     Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                              A      Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
         **Subject            B      Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject.
                                     (Principles)
        Knowledge             C      Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
          Levels              D      Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
                                                        Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for
a specific task. (Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any
specific task, or for a subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in
resources.

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.


                                                                  21
                                                                                           3. Certification For OJT                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                                                              Provided (See Note)
                                                                                             A                 B                   C                  D                  E                         A           B          C




                                                              2. Core Task/Wartime Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                                 3 Skill     5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Level       Level      Level




                                                                                                               Training Complete




                                                                                                                                                                         Certifier Initials
                                                                                                                                   Trainee Initials


                                                                                                                                                      Trainer Initials
                                                                                              Training Start




                                                                                                                                                                                               (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (1) Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                            (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (2) CDC
Line Item   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                                      (U) 1NX Common Core
1.1         SAFETY
1.1.1       Safety TR: AFI 91-202, 91-301, OSHA                                                                                                                                                A                                   A
1.2         SECURITY
1.2.1       Information Security (INFOSEC)                                                                                                                                                     A                                   B
            TR: AFI 31-401 & AFI 33-129 AFGM1
1.2.2       Communications Security (COMSEC)                                                                                                                                                   A                                   B
            TR: AFI 33-201V1
1.2.3       Operations Security (OPSEC)                                                                                                                                                        A                                   B
            TR: AFI 10-701
1.2.4       Physical Security                                                                                                                                                                  A                                   B
            TR: AFI 31-102
1.2.5       Personnel Security                                                                                                                                                                 A                                   B
            TR: AFI 31-501
1.2.6       Emission Security (EMSEC)                                                                                                                                                          A                                   B
            TR: SFI 33-203 & AFSSI 7700
1.2.7       Computer Security (COMPUSEC)                                                                                                                                                       A                                   B
            TR: AFI 33-200 & AFSSI 8520
1.2.8       Intelligence Oversight Program                                                                                                                                                     A                                   ---
            TR: AFI-14-104, EO 12333
1.2.9       SCI classification                                                                                                                                                                 A                                   B
            TR: DoD 5200.1-R, EO 12958-IS00,
            http://capco.dssc.sgov.gov/
1.2.10      Security Derivative Classifications                                                                                                                                                A                                   B
            TR: DoD 5200.1-R, EO12958-IS00,
            http://capco.dssc.sgov.gov/
1.2.11      Safeguard Classified                        *C                                                                                                                                    2b                                   b
            TR: DoD 5200.1-R, EO 12958, as amended, AFI
            16-201
1.3         ORGANIZATIONS AND MISSIONS
1.3.1       Executive Branch                                                                                                                                                                   A                                   B
            TR: www.intelligence.gov
1.3.2       National Intelligence Community
1.3.2.1     Office of the Director of National Intelligence                                                                                                                                    A                                   B
            TR: DNI.gov, Joint Pub 2-0
1.3.2.2     AF Intelligence                                                                                                                                                                    A                                   B
            TR: Joint Pub 2-0, AFPD 14-1, AFI 14-105,
            HAFMD 1-33
1.3.2.3     Army Intelligence                                                                                                                                                                  A                                   B
            TR: Army Reg 10-87, Joint Pub 2-0
                                                              22
                                                                                         3. Certification For OJT                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                                                                            Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)




                                                            2. Core Task/Wartime Skill
                                                                                           A                 B                   C                  D                  E                         A           B          C
                                                                                                                                                                                               3 Skill     5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                               Level       Level      Level




                                                                                                             Training Complete




                                                                                                                                                                       Certifier Initials
                                                                                                                                 Trainee Initials


                                                                                                                                                    Trainer Initials
                                                                                            Training Start




                                                                                                                                                                                             (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1) Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                          (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (2) CDC
Line Item   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
1.3.2.4     Navy and Marine Corps Intelligence                                                                                                                                               A                                   B
            TR: ONI NDP 2, Joint Pub 2-0
1.3.2.5     Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA)                                                                                                                                                A                                   B
            TR: DIA.gov, Joint Pub 2-0
1.3.2.6     National Security Agency (NSA)                                                                                                                                                   A                                   B
            TR: NSA.gov, Joint Pub 2-0
1.3.2.7     National Reconnaissance Office (NRO)                                                                                                                                             A                                   B
            TR: NRO.gov, Joint Pub 2-0
1.3.2.8     National Geospatial Intel Agency (NGA)                                                                                                                                           A                                   B
            TR: NGA.gov, Joint Pub 2-0
1.3.2.9     Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)                                                                                                                                                A                                   B
            TR: CIA.gov, Joint Pub 2-0
1.3.2.10    Intelligence Roles of Other Government                                                                                                                                           A                                   B
            Organization
            TR: www.intelligence.gov
1.3.3       Department of Defense (DOD)
1.3.3.1     Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS)                                                                                                                                                      A                                   B
            TR: jcs.mil
1.3.3.2     Unified Commands                                                                                                                                                                 A                                   B
            TR: defense.gov/specials/unified command
1.3.3.3     Joint Activities                                                                                                                                                                 A                                   B
            TR: Joint Pub 2-0
1.3.3.4     Joint Task Force (JTF)                                                                                                                                                           A                                   B
            TR: Joint Pub 2-0, Joint Pub 3-0
1.3.3.5     USAF Major Commands (MAJCOM)                                                                                                                                                     A                                   B
            TR: afhra.mil, AFPAM 26-2241
1.3.3.6     US Cryptologic System and Service Cryptologic                                                                                                                                    A                                   B
            Components (SCC)
            TR: NSA.smil.mil, AFI 14-128
1.3.3.7     Title 10, 32, 50                                                                                                                                                                 A                                   A
            TR: United States Code
1.3.4       Coalition Forces                                                                                                                                                                 A                                   B
            TR: Joint Pub 2-1 & AFI 16-201
1.4         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
1.4.1       Expeditionary Air Force                                                                                                                                                          A                                   B
            TR: AFI 10-401
1.4.2       Marine Air Ground Task Force (MAGTF)                                                                                                                                            ---                                  A
            TR: www.marines.mil/unit/26MEU/Pages/
            about/magtf.aspx
1.4.3       Naval Carrier/Expeditionary Strike Group                                                                                                                                        ---                                  A
            TR: www.navy.mil/navydata/ships/carriers/
            Powerhouse/cvbg.asp
                                                            23
                                                                                            3. Certification For OJT                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                                                                               Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
                                                                                              A                 B                   C                  D                  E                         A           B          C




                                                               2. Core Task/Wartime Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                                  3 Skill     5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Level       Level      Level




                                                                                                                Training Complete




                                                                                                                                                                          Certifier Initials
                                                                                                                                    Trainee Initials


                                                                                                                                                       Trainer Initials
                                                                                               Training Start




                                                                                                                                                                                                (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (1) Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                             (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (2) CDC
Line Item   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
1.4.4       Brigade Combat Team (BCT)                                                                                                                                                          ---                                  A
1.4.5       Special Operations/Joint Special Operations Task                                                                                                                                   ---                                  A
            Force (JSOTF)
            TR: Joint Pub 3-5.1
1.4.6       Personnel Recovery                                                                                                                                                                 ---                                  A
            TR: AFDD 2-0
1.4.7       OPORD/OPLAN                                                                                                                                                                         A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 2-0
1.5         INTELLIGENCE DISCIPLINES/AFSCs
1.5.1       Capabilities and limitations of SIGINT                                                                                                                                              B                                   B
            TR: Force Enlisted Classification Directory
            (AFECD)
1.5.2       Capabilities and limitations of MASINT                                                                                                                                              B                                   B
            TR: Force Enlisted Classification Directory
            (AFECD)
1.5.3       Capabilities and limitations of HUMINT                                                                                                                                              B                                   B
            TR: Force Enlisted Classification Directory
            (AFECD)
1.5.4       Capabilities and limitations of GEOINT                                                                                                                                              B                                   B
            TR: Force Enlisted Classification Directory
            (AFECD)
1.5.5       Capabilities and limitations of OSINT                                                                                                                                               B                                   B
            TR: Force Enlisted Classification Directory
            (AFECD)
1.5.6       Functions of Intelligence AFSCs                                                                                                                                                     B                                   B
            TR: Force Enlisted Classification Directory
            (AFECD)
1.6         DOCTRINE
1.6.1       Air Force Doctrine                                                                                                                                                                  A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 1
1.6.2       Joint Doctrine                                                                                                                                                                      A                                   B
            TR: JP 2-01
1.6.3       Range of Military Operations (ROMO)                                                                                                                                                 A                                   B
            TR: JP 2-0
1.6.4       Levels of War                                                                                                                                                                       A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 2-0, Joint Pub 2-0, Joint Pub 3-0
1.6.5       Cyber Doctrine                                                                                                                                                                      A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 3-12
1.7         INFORMATION OPERATIONS (IO)
1.7.1       IO Doctrine                                                                                                                                                                         A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 3-13, Joint Pub 3-13
                                                               24
                                                                                        3. Certification For OJT                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                                                          A                 B                   C                  D                  E                         A           B          C




                                                           2. Core Task/Wartime Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                              3 Skill     5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                              Level       Level      Level




                                                                                                            Training Complete




                                                                                                                                                                      Certifier Initials
                                                                                                                                Trainee Initials


                                                                                                                                                   Trainer Initials
                                                                                           Training Start




                                                                                                                                                                                            (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1) Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (2) CDC
Line Item   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
1.7.2       Fundamentals of IO                                                                                                                                                              A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 3-13, Joint Pub 3-13
1.7.3       Influence Operations                                                                                                                                                            A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 3-13, Joint Pub 3-13
1.7.4       Network Warfare Ops                                                                                                                                                             A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 3-13, Joint Pub 3-13
1.7.5       Electronic Warfare Operations                                                                                                                                                   A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 3-13, Joint Pub 3-13
1.7.6       IO planning & execution                                                                                                                                                         A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 3-13, Joint Pub 3-13
1.7.7       Physical attack                                                                                                                                                                 A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 3-13, Joint Pub 3-13
1.7.8       ISR support to IO                                                                                                                                                               A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 2-0
1.8         INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE, RECONNAISSANCE (ISR) OPERATIONS
1.8.1       ISR Process
1.8.1.1     Planning & Direction                                                                                                                                                            A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 2-0, Joint Pub 2-0
1.8.1.2     Collection                                                                                                                                                                      A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 2-0, Joint Pub 2-0
1.8.1.3     Processing & Exploitation                                                                                                                                                       A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 2-0, Joint Pub 2-0
1.8.1.4     Analysis & Integration                                                                                                                                                          A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 2-0, Joint Pub 2-0
1.8.1.5     Dissemination & Integration                                                                                                                                                     A                                   B
1.8.1.6     Evaluation & Feedback                                                                                                                                                           A                                   B
            TR: AFDD 2-0, Joint Pub 2-0
1.8.2       ISR Assets
1.8.2.1     Operational characteristics, capabilities, and                                                                                                                                  A                                   B
            limitations of US and Multinational assets
            TR: AFDD 2-0, Joint Pub 2-0, AFTTP 3-1 & 3-3
1.8.2.2     Operational characteristics, capabilities and                                                                                                                                   A                                   B
            limitations of DCGS
            TR: AFTTP 3-1.DCGS
1.9         AIR & SPACE OPERATIONS CENTER (AOC) STRUCTURE AND MISSION
            TR: AFTTP 3.1 AOC, AFI 10-401, AFI 13-1AOCV3
1.9.1       Structure                                                                                                                                                                       A                                   A
1.9.2       Mission                                                                                                                                                                         A                                   A



                                                           25
                                                                                        3. Certification For OJT                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                                                          A                 B                   C                  D                  E                         A           B          C




                                                           2. Core Task/Wartime Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                              3 Skill     5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                              Level       Level      Level




                                                                                                            Training Complete




                                                                                                                                                                      Certifier Initials
                                                                                                                                Trainee Initials


                                                                                                                                                   Trainer Initials
                                                                                           Training Start




                                                                                                                                                                                            (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1) Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (2) CDC
Line Item   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
1.10        INTELLIGENCE PREPARATION OF THE OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT (IPOE)
1.10.1      IPOE Process                                                 A                                                                                                                                                      A
            TR: AFI 14-124, Joint Pub 2-01.3
1.11        TARGETING
1.11.1      Targeting Cycle                                              A                                                                                                                                                      B
            TR: AFDD 2.1.9, AF14-117, AFPAM 14-210,
            Point Pub 3-60
1.12        US AND FRIENDLY FORCES FAMILIARIZATION
1.12.1      Aerospace                                                    A                                                                                                                                                      B
            TR: AFTTP 3-1 All vols
1.12.2      Ground                                                       A                                                                                                                                                      A
            TR: www.ngic.army.smil.mil/functionpgs/armor
1.12.3      Naval                                                        A                                                                                                                                                      A
            TR: www.navy.mil/navydata/fact.asp
1.13        TELECOMMUNICATIONS MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT PROGRAM (TMAP)
1.13.1      TMAP                                                         A                                                                                                                                                      ---
            TR: AFI 10-712
1.14        GEOSPATIAL INFORMATION & SERVICES (GI&S)
1.14.1      Identify marginal data & symbology                          2b                                                                                                                                                      b
            TR: Joint Pub 2-3
1.14.2      Manually Plot Coordinates                        *C         2b                                                                                                                                                      b
            TR: Joint Pub 2-3
1.14.3      Perform Time Zone Calculation                                1a
            TR: www.nist.gov/pml/general/time/world.cfm
1.15        CRITICAL THINKING
1.15.1      Apply Principles of Critical Thinking            *C          1a                                                                                                                                                     b
            TR: Richards J. Heuer, Jr., “Psychology of Intel
            Analysis” Morgan Joines “The Thinkers Tool
            Kit”;www.criticalthinking.org
1.15.2      Conduct online data search                                    a                                                                                                                                                     b

         NOTE: Core tasks and wartime skills annotated in the 1NX Core with an *
         should be considered specific to the 1N0 AFS.




                                                           26
                                                                                          3. Certification For OJT                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
                                                                                            A                 B                   C                  D                  E                         A           B          C




                                                             2. Core Task/Wartime Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                                3 Skill     5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                                Level       Level      Level




                                                                                                              Training Complete




                                                                                                                                                                        Certifier Initials
                                                                                                                                  Trainee Initials


                                                                                                                                                     Trainer Initials
                                                                                             Training Start




                                                                                                                                                                                              (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1) Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (2) CDC
Line Item   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
                                             (U) 1N0X1 Operations Intelligence
2.1          CRITICAL THINKING and ANALYSIS
            TR: TC 2-33.4, FM 2-01.3, FM 34-60, FM 101-5-1, Joint Pub 1-02, Joint Pub 2-01.3, Richards J. Heuer, Jr.,
            “Psychology of Intel Analysis,” Morgan Jones, “The Thinkers Tool Kit,” www.criticalthinking.org
2.1.1       Analysis Fundamentals and Tools                                                        B            -
2.1.2       Conduct Online Data Search:
2.1.2.1     Search AFTTP 3-1 Series                                                                1a           -
2.1.2.2     Combined Emitter Database (CED)                                                        A            -
2.1.2.3     Automated Message Handling System                                                      A            -
2.1.2.4     Request for Information (RFI)                                                          A            -
2.1.3       Apply Critical Thinking within a Scenario Based                                        2b           -
            Exercise
2.1.4       Apply Multi-Source Intelligence Task\Knowledge                                         2b           -
            within a Fusion\Scenario Based Exercise
2.2         COMPUTER APPLICATIONS
            TR: AFI 14-104, AFI 14-202V3, AFH 33-337, Applicable Command Directive
2.2.1       Use Presentation Software                        C                                     2b           -
2.2.2       Use Word Processing Software                     C                                     2b           -
2.3         INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE, and RECONNAISSANCE (ISR) OPERATIONS
            TR: AFDD 2-0
2.3.1       ISR Process:
2.3.1.1     Planning and Direction                                                                 B            A
2.3.1.2     Collection                                                                             B            A
2.3.1.3     Processing and Exploitation                                                            B            A
2.3.1.4     Analysis and Production                                                                B            A
2.3.1.5     Dissemination                                                                          B            A
2.3.2       ISR Assets:
2.3.2.1     Operational Characteristics, Capabilities, and                                         B            A
            Limitations of US and Multinational Assets
2.3.2.2     ISR Asset Deployment, Employment, and                                                  B            A
            Redeployment Planning and Execution
            Requirements/Considerations
2.3.2.3     ISR Operations Planning and Battle Management                                          B            A
            Procedures, Processes and Tools
2.3.2.4     Production, Exploitation, Dissemination,                                               B            A
            Operational Architectures; Comm Requirements;
            Planning Considerations; and Production
            Requests
2.3.2.5     Perform ISR Asset Brief                                                                2b           -

                                                            27
                                                                                          3. Certification For OJT                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)




                                                             2. Core Task/Wartime Skill
                                                                                            A                 B                   C                  D                  E                         A           B          C
                                                                                                                                                                                                3 Skill     5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                                Level       Level      Level




                                                                                                              Training Complete




                                                                                                                                                                        Certifier Initials
                                                                                                                                  Trainee Initials


                                                                                                                                                     Trainer Initials
                                                                                             Training Start




                                                                                                                                                                                              (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1) Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (2) CDC
Line Item   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
2.3.2.6      Non-Traditional ISR                                                     A                                                                                                                                            -
2.4         INTELLIGENCE PREPARATION of the OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT (IPOE)
            TR: Joint Pub 2-01.3, JP 3-13.1, JP 3-58, AFDD 3-13, AFDD 2-0, FM 34-130
2.4.1       Steps of the IPOE Process:
2.4.1.1     Define the Operational Environment               C                       2b                                                                                                                                           B
2.4.1.2     Describe the Operational Environment's Effects       C                                                                                                                           2b                                   B
2.4.1.3     Evaluate the Adversary                               C                                                                                                                           2b                                   B
2.4.1.4     Determine Adversary Courses of Action                C                                                                                                                           2b                                   B
2.4.2       Prepare Applicable IPOE Products     C                                                                                                                                           2b                                   B
2.5         U.S. FRIENDLY FORCES and WEAPON SYSTEMS FAMILIARIZATION
            TR: AFTTP 3-1 All Volumes
2.5.1       Aerospace                                                                                                                                                                         B                                   -
2.5.2       Special Operations Missions and Capabilities                                                                                                                                      A                                   -
2.5.3       US Nuclear Forces Familiarization                                                                                                                                                 A                                   -
2.5.4       Air and Space Operations Center (AOC)                                                                                                                                             B                                   B
2.5.5       DCGS Enterprise Architecture                                                                                                                                                      B                                   B
2.5.6       Ground                                                                                                                                                                            A                                   -
2.5.7       Naval                                                                           A             -
2.6         GEOSPATIAL INFORMATION & SERVICES (GI&S)
            TR: AFI-14-205, AFPAM 14-210/11-216, DIAM 57-24 Vols 1 and 2, DIAM 65-2-1, DIA Point Reference
            Guidebook, GIPS, NGA Catalog Vol 1 Parts 1 and 4, CATMN Vols 1 and 2, CHUM, DMA Manual 8750.1, DMA
            Technical Report, DMA Training Manual 8358.2, FM 101-5-1, Applicable Command Directives
2.6.1       Fundamentals and Uses of GI&S Products:
2.6.1.1     Charts                                                                                                                                                                            A                                   -
2.6.1.2     Imagery                                                                                                                                                                           A                                   -
2.6.1.3     Map Displays                                                                                                                                                                      A                                   -
2.6.2       GI&S Automated Methods:
2.6.2.1     Construct Overlays                                                                                                                                                               1a                                   -
2.6.2.2     Construct Map Displays                                                                                                                                                           1a                                   -
2.6.2.3     Plot and Extract Coordinates                                                                                                                                                     2b                                   -
2.6.2.4     Compute Distance and Direction                                                                                                                                                   2b                                   -
2.6.2.5     Convert Coordinates                                                                                                                                                              2b                                   -
2.6.3       Geopolitics:
2.6.3.1     Geography                                                                                                                                                                         A                                   -
2.6.3.2     Place-Name Identification                                                                                                                                                         A                                   -


                                                             28
                                                                                        3. Certification For OJT                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                                                          A                 B                   C                  D                  E                         A           B          C




                                                           2. Core Task/Wartime Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                              3 Skill     5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                              Level       Level      Level




                                                                                                            Training Complete




                                                                                                                                                                      Certifier Initials
                                                                                                                                Trainee Initials


                                                                                                                                                   Trainer Initials
                                                                                           Training Start




                                                                                                                                                                                            (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1) Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (2) CDC
Line Item   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
2.7         CAREER
            TR: AFI 36-2103, AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2401, AFI 36-2403, AFI 36-2618, AFI 36-2101, AFI 14-202
2.7.1        Progression and Development                                                         A            B
2.8         COMMUNICATION
            TR: AFH 33-337 (Tongue & Quill)
2.8.1       Intelligence Briefings:
2.8.1.1     Threat                                                                               A            -
2.8.1.2     Situation                                                                            A            -
2.8.1.3     Theater Indoctrination                                                               A            -
2.8.1.4     Step/Quick Turn                                                                      A            -
2.8.1.5     Current Intel                                                                        A            -
2.8.1.6     Pre-Deployment                                                                       A            -
2.8.1.7     Prepare and Present Pre-Mission                                                      1a           -
2.8.1.8     Conduct Debriefings                                                                  1a           -
2.8.2       Prepare and Present Intelligence Briefings                                           2b           -
2.8.3       Intelligence Reports:
2.8.3.1     Intelligence Report (INTREP)                                                         A            A
2.8.3.2     Prepare Intelligence Summary (INTSUM)/ Daily                                         1a           a
            Intelligence Summary (DISUM)
2.8.3.3     Prepare Mission Report (MISREP)                                                      1a           b
2.8.3.4     Situation Report (SITREP)                                                            A            A
2.8.4       Aircrew Terminology                                                                  A            -
2.9         ELECTROMAGNETIC (EM) THEORY
            TR: “Electronic Warfare Fundamentals” Nov 2000, Det 8 ACC TRSS, specific current Applicable Command
            Directives
2.9.1       Radar Types, Concepts and Operation                                                  B            B
2.9.2       Radar/Infrared Significance of                                                       A            B
            Cultural/Topographical Features
2.9.3       Electronic Combat Concepts                                                           A            B
2.9.4       Infrared Concepts                                                                    A            B
2.9.5       Signal Concepts                                                                      A            B
2.9.6       Visible Light Concepts                                                               A            B
2.10        2.10. INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT to FORCE PROTECTION
            TR: AFDD 2-4.1, Joint Pub 3.07.2, JTTP for Anti-Terrorism, Joint Staff Guide 52-60, JRAC Force Protection
            Guide, AFI 14-119, AFI 10-235, AFPD 31-1, AFI 31-301, AFH 31-302, AFJI 31-304, JP3-07.2, Applicable Command
            Directives
2.10.1      Intel Roles and Responsibilities in Support of                                       A            B
            Force Protection
2.11         MISSION PLANNING
            TR: AFI 14-103/14-117/13-1, Vol. 3, AFPAM 14-210, AFTTP 3-1 Vols. 1-25 (as applicable), FM 101-5-1, DIA Point
                                                           29
                                                                                        3. Certification For OJT                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                                                          A                 B                   C                  D                  E                         A           B          C




                                                           2. Core Task/Wartime Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                              3 Skill     5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                              Level       Level      Level




                                                                                                            Training Complete




                                                                                                                                                                      Certifier Initials
                                                                                                                                Trainee Initials


                                                                                                                                                   Trainer Initials
                                                                                           Training Start




                                                                                                                                                                                            (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1) Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (2) CDC
Line Item   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
2.11.1      Mission Planning Process:
2.11.1.1    Mission Profiles                                                                A              -
2.11.1.2    Perform Threat and Terrain Route Analysis                                       1a             -
2.11.1.3    Perform Threat and Terrain Analysis within the                                  1a             -
            Target Area
2.11.1.4    Initial Points, Offset Aim Points, and Way Points                               A              -
2.11.2      Mission Planning:
2.11.2.1    Relay Mission Profile Options Based on Route                                    1a             -
            Threat and Terrain Analysis and Target and
            Aimpoint Analysis
2.11.3      Airspace Management:
2.11.3.1    Air Tasking Order (ATO) Cycle                                                   A             B
2.11.3.2    Extract ATO Information                                                         1a             -
2.11.3.3     Extract Airspace Control Order                                                 1a             -
2.11.3.4    Extract Special Instruction (SPIN) Information                                  1a             -
2.11.3.5    Extract Reconnaissance, Surveillance, Targeting,                                1a             -
            Acquisition (RSTA) Annex Information
2.11.3.6    Military Low Level Routes                                                       A              -
2.12        PERSONNEL RECOVERY (PR)
            TR: AFI 16-13, AFI 16-1301, AFMD 54, AFI 14-202V3, AFM 200-3, AFI 13-1301, AFP 169-10, Applicable
            Command Directives
2.12.1      Isolated Personnel Reports (ISOPREP):
2.12.1.1    Function and Purpose of an ISOPREP                                              A              -
2.12.2      Evasion Plan of Action (EPA):
2.12.2.1    Function and Purpose of EPA                                                     A              -
2.12.3      Evasion and Escape (E&E) Kits                                                   A              -
2.12.4      Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR)                                                 A              -
2.12.5      Survival, Evasion, Resistance, Escape (SERE)                                    A              -
2.12.6      Code of Conduct Continuation Training (CCCT)                                    A              -
2.12.7      Blood Chits                                                                     A              -
2.12.8      Roles and Responsibilities of Joint Personnel                                   A              -
            Recovery Center (JPRC)
2.13        ENEMY THREATS
            TR: AFTTP 3-1 Vol 2, Airborne Threats to US Dominance
2.13.1      General Capabilities of Adversarial Weapon
            Systems:
2.13.1.1    Aircraft Weapon Systems                                                         A              -
2.13.1.2    Surface-to-Air Systems                                                          A              -
2.13.1.3    Naval Weapon Systems                                                            A              -

                                                           30
                                                                                        3. Certification For OJT                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                                                          A                 B                   C                  D                  E                         A           B          C




                                                           2. Core Task/Wartime Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                              3 Skill     5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                                                                              Level       Level      Level




                                                                                                            Training Complete




                                                                                                                                                                      Certifier Initials
                                                                                                                                Trainee Initials


                                                                                                                                                   Trainer Initials
                                                                                           Training Start




                                                                                                                                                                                            (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1) Course




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1) Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (2) CDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (2) CDC
Line Item   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References
2.13.1.4    Threats to Ground Operations                                                                                                                                                    A                                   -
2.13.1.5    Command and Control (C2)                                                                                                                                                        A                                   -
2.13.2      Nuclear Capabilities (Countries and Capabilities)                                                                                                                               A                                   -
2.13.3      Visual Recognition of Enemy Systems:
2.13.3.1    Perform Visual Recognition of Aircraft                                                                                                                                         2b                                   -
2.13.3.2    Naval Vessels                                                                                                                                                                  A                                    -
2.13.3.3    Ground equipment                                                                                                                                                               A                                    -
2.13.4      Components of Adversarial Integrated Air
            Defense Systems (IADS):
2.13.4.1    Perform Briefing on RADAR                                                                                                                                                      2b                                   -
2.13.4.2    Perform Briefing on Command and Control (C2)                                                                                                                                   2b                                   -
2.13.4.3    Perform Briefing on Aircraft Weapon Systems                                                                                                                                    2b                                   -
2.13.4.4    Perform Briefing on Surface-to-Air Weapon                                                                                                                                      2b                                   -
            Systems
2.13.4.5    Perform Briefing on Naval Weapon Systems                                                                                                                                       2b                                   -
2.13.5      Perform Briefing on Asymmetric Threats to                                                                                                                                      2b                                   -
            Ground Operations
2.14        2.14. CYBER
            TR: JP 3-12, AFDD 3-12 (p. 10-13), AFTTP 3-1 Vol 2
2.14.1      Cyber Fundamentals                                                                                                                                                              A                                   -
2.14.2      Cyber threats to U.S. Dominance                                                                                                                                                 A                                   B
2.15        2.15. SPACE
            TR: JP 3-14, AFDD 3-14, AFTTP 3-1 Vol 2
2.15.1      Space Related Systems                                                                                                                                                           A                                   -
2.15.2      Threats to U.S. Space Operations                                                                                                                                                A                                   B
2.16        Telecommunications Monitoring and Assessment Program (TMAP)
            TR: AFI 10-712
2.16.1      TMAP Fundamentals                                                                                                                                                               A                                   -




                                                           31
                                                Section B - Support Material
NOTE: There are currently no support material requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                                32
                                             Section C - Training Course Index

1. Purpose. The purpose of this section is to aid commanders, supervisors, and trainers, by providing a list of training courses
available to personnel within the Operations Intelligence specialty. Many of the courses listed in this section are often required to
satisfy command/organizational/positional unique training requirements that are not part of formal initial skills or upgrade training.
Supervisors should refer questions concerning specialized training, not available at the unit, to their respective unit/base training
manager or to their command/joint activity functional manager. NOTE: Although not all inclusive, the courses listed represent much
of the formal training recognized by the functional community as applicable to the Operations Intelligence specialty.

2. Air Force In-Residence Courses.

     Course ID                 Course Name                                                        Course Location

       X5OZD14N3 014            Advanced Counterterrorism Analysis Course                          Bolling AFB, DC
       AF FP IFTU               AF Force Protection Intelligence Formal Training Unit              Ft Dix, NJ
       AFSOF3ZITO               AFSOC Intelligence Formal Training Unit                            Hurlburt Fld, FL
       X3OZR14N3 0B1B           Air Force Tactical Data Processors Course                          Goodfellow AFB, TX
       AMC MAF IFTU             Air Mobility Command Mobility Air Forces Intelligence              Ft Dix, NJ
                                Formal Training Unit Course
       X3OZR14N3 0D1A           Analysis Correlation and Fusion Course                             Goodfellow AFB, TX
       JFIS                     Analysis Fundamentals and Tools                                    Norfolk, VA
       ACC AOCIQTISRT           AOC Initial Qual Training, Technician Course                       Hurlburt Fld, FL
       S-V87-A                  Arctic Survival Training                                           Eielson AFB, AK
       SOED-APOC                ASIA Pacific Orientation Course                                    Hurlburt Fld, FL
       SOED-CIWC                Contemporary Insurgent Warfare Course                              Hurlburt Fld, FL
       X5OZD14N3 0A7A           Counterterrorism Analysis Course                                   Bolling AFB, DC
       SOED-CCC                 Cross Cultural Communications                                      Hurlburt Fld, FL
       SOED-DIT                 Dynamics of International Terrorism                                Hurlburt Fld, FL
       ACC IOIC                 Information Operations Integration Course                          Hurlburt Fld, FL
       MCADRE005                Information Warfare Applications Course                            Maxwell AFB, AL
       X5OZD14N3 003            Intelligence Analyst Course                                        Bolling AFB, DC
       X5OZD14N3 0C7A           Intelligence Collection Course                                     Bolling AFB, DC
       X5OZD14N3 0X3A           Intelligence Collection Management Course                          Bolling AFB, DC
       L5AZA3P071 0S8A          Intelligence in Combating Terrorism                                Ft Huachuca, AZ
       X5OZD14N3 0A4A           Intelligence Indications and Warning Course                        Bolling AFB, DC
       SOED-ISOC                Introduction to Special Operations                                 Hurlburt Fld, FL
       X5OZN14N3 016            Joint Battle Damage Assessment Course                              Dam Neck, VA
       SOED-JPOC                Joint Psychological Operations Course                              Hurlburt Fld, FL
        X5OZN14N3 015           Joint Targeting Applications Course                                Dam Neck, VA
       SOED-LAOC                Latin America Orientation Course                                   Hurlburt Fld, FL
       SOED-MEOC                Middle East Orientation Course                                     Hurlburt Fld, FL
       PR IIQC                  Personnel Recovery Intelligence Qualification Course               Davis-Monthan AFB,
                                                                                                   AZ
       SOED-REOC-1              Russia/Eurasia Orientation Course                                  Hurlburt Fld, FL
       X5OZD14N3 0B2A           SAFE DODIIS Structured Files Training                              Bolling AFB, DC
       X5OZD14N3 008            SCI Control Officers Course                                        Bolling AFB, DC
       X3AZR1NXXX               Senior Enlisted ISR Master Skills Course                           Goodfellow AFB, TX
       0B1A
                                                                  33
S-V80-A           SERE Training                                                Fairchild AFB, WA
SOED-SCAOC        South/Central Asia Orientation Course                        Hurlburt Fld, FL
SFC               Space Fundamentals Course                                    Peterson AFB, CO
S-V83-A           Special Survival Training                                    Fairchild AFB, WA
SOED-SAOC         Sub-Saharan Africa Orientation Course                        Hurlburt Fld, FL
E3AZR3C051 01ZA   Theater Battle Management Core Systems - Unit Level System   Keesler AFB, MS
                  Administration
S-V90-A           Water Survival, Non-parachuting                              Fairchild AFB, WA
F/A22-3ZITO       USAF F-22A Intelligence Formal Training Unit Course          Tyndall AFB, FL
F15C3ZITO         USAF F15C Intelligence Formal Training Unit Course           Kingsley Fld, OR
F163ZIT0          USAF F-16 Intelligence Formal Training Unit Course           Luke AFB, AZ




                                                34
                                               Section D - MAJCOM Unique Training

1. Purpose. This section provides general instructions for MAJCOMs and Joint Activities that have training requirements
unique to their respective organizations.

2. Responsibilities.

2.1. MAJCOM Unique Training.

2.1.1. MFMs are responsible for ensuring the implementation of this CFETP within their respective commands and the development,
implementation, and management of supplemental training plans/programs, as necessary, to satisfy command-unique training
requirements.

2.1.2. MFMs should work closely with command training managers to ensure supplemental training plans/programs to support
command-unique requirements are consistent with the requirements set forth within this CFETP or governing directives.

2.1.3. MFMs are also responsible for fulfilling the responsibilities listed in AFI 36-2201 AND PART I, SECTION A OF THIS
CFETP.

2.2. Joint Activity Unique Training.

2.2.1. Joint Activity MFMs are responsible for ensuring the implementation of this CFETP within their respective joint activity and
the development, implementation, and management of supplemental training plans/programs, as necessary, to satisfy joint activity-
unique training requirements.

2.2.2. Joint activity MFMs should work closely with the training manager assigned to the supporting Air Force Element (AFELM),
to ensure supplemental training plans/programs to support joint activity-unique requirements are consistent with the requirements set
forth within this CFETP or governing directives.

2.2.3. Joint activity MFMs are also responsible for fulfilling the responsibilities listed in AFI 36-2201 and Part I, Section A of this
CFETP.




                                                                   35
