DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                            CFETP 3E4X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                               Parts I and II
Washington DC 20330-5000                                                13 Mar 2009




                                     AFSC 3E4X1


  WATER AND FUEL SYSTEMS MAINTENANCE




                                         MASTER




          BASIC                                                         SENIOR


                       CAREER FIELD
            EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN (CFETP)

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
     WATER AND FUEL SYSTEMS MAINTENANCE SPECIALTY AFSC 3E4X1
        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN (CFETP)


                                    Table of Contents


Preface                                                     4

PART I

Section A - General Information                             5
     Purpose of the CFETP
     Uses of the CFETP
     Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B - Career Field Progression and Information        7
     Specialty Descriptions
     Skill/Career Progression
          Apprentice (3-Level)
          Journeyman (5-Level)
          Craftsman (7-Level)
          Superintendent (9-Level)
          Civil Engineer Manager
     Training Decisions
     Community College of the Air Force Academic Programs
     Career Field Path

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements               19
     Purpose
     Specialty Qualification Requirements
         Apprentice (3-Level)
         Journeyman (5-Level)
         Craftsman (7-Level)
         Superintendent (9-Level)
         Civil Engineer Manager

Section D - Resource Constraints                            26
     Purpose
     Training Constraints

Section E - Transitional Training Guide                     37




                                              2
PART II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard                          28
       Implementation
       Purpose
       Recommendations
       Qualitative Requirements
       Specialty Training Standard (STS)
       Air Force Qualification Training Package
       (AFQTP) Documentation Record

Section B - Course Objective List                                51

Section C - Support Materials                                    53

Section D - Training Course Index                                54

Section E - Major Command (MAJCOM) Unique Requirements           55

Section F - Home Station Training (HST)                          56




OPR: 366 TRS/TRR
Certified by: Mr. Alfred L. Harris (366 TRS/TRR)
Supersedes: CFETP 3E4X1, 5 Aug 2002; CFETP 3E4X1C1 22 Aug 2003

Pages: 62



                                              3
              WATER AND FUEL SYSTEMS MAINTENANCE SPECIALTY
                             AFSC 3E4X1 CFETP

PART I: Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a
clear career path to success and instill rigor in all aspects of career field training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts used by supervisors to plan, manage, and control training
within the career field.

   2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section
   A explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
   information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
   associates each skill level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, experience,
   training and other). Section D indicates resource constraints (examples: funds, manpower,
   equipment, facilities, etc.). Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for
   SSgt through MSgt.

   2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard
   (STS) to include duties, tasks, and technical references to support training, Air Education and
   Training Command (AETC)-conducted training, wartime course, core task and
   correspondence course requirements. Section B contains the course objective list and training
   standards supervisors will use to determine if airmen satisfied training requirements. Section
   C identifies available support materials. Air Force Qualification Training Packages
   (AFQTPs) and CerTests support both Upgrade Training (UGT) and qualification training.
   Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use to determine resources
   available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section
   E identifies MAJCOM-unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine
   additional training required for the associated qualification needs. Section F identifies home
   station training references and courses material required for this specialty in support of
   contingency/wartime training. Section F identifies home station training references and
   courses material required for this specialty in support of contingency/wartime training. At
   unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan and conduct training
   commensurate with the overall goals of this guide.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their careers. This plan will enable us
to train today‟s work force for tomorrow‟s jobs.




                                                  4
Section A - General Information

4. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides information necessary for Air Force Career
Field Managers (AFCFMs), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders, education
and training managers, supervisors, trainers and certifiers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct
an effective career field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in the
AFS should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. It identifies initial
skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training; this is
the AFS-specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining
into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, AETC conducts this training at one
of the technical training centers. Upgrade training; this identifies the mandatory courses, task
qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the
3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels. Qualification training; this is actual hands-on task performance
training designed to qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs
both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance
skills and knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training; this is a formal course that
provides individuals who are qualified in one or more positions of their Air Force Specialty
(AFS) with additional skills and knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field.
Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of the AFS. Proficiency training;
this is additional training, either in-residence, exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-
job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum
requirements for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes. These purposes are:

   4.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field
   training program. It is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
   individual‟s career.

   4.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty
   and recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual‟s career.

   4.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty and identifies sources of training and
   training delivery methods.

   4.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired
   career field training process.

5. Uses of the CFETP. MFMs and supervisors will use the plan at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

   5.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, nonresident, field, and
   exportable training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II
   of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM, Air Force Civil Engineer Support
   Agency Force Development Division (HQ AFCESA/CEOF) to develop acquisition strategies
   for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.




                                                  5
   5.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
   upgrade, and proficiency requirements and identify requirements that can be satisfied by OJT,
   resident training, contract training, CerTest, or exportable courses. MAJCOM developed
   training to support this AFS must be identified for inclusion into the plan.

   5.3. Unit Education and Training managers and supervisors must ensure each individual
   completes the mandatory training requirements (including MAJCOM supplemental
   requirements) for the upgrade training specified in this plan.

   5.4. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
   The lists of courses in Part II in this CFETP will be used as a reference to support training.

6. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority for the CFETP.
MAJCOM representatives and AETC personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field
training requirements. The AFCFM will initiate an annual review of this document to ensure
currency and accuracy. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.




                                                 6
Section B - Career Field Progression and Information


7. Specialty Descriptions for Water and Fuel Systems Maintenance personnel.

7.1. Specialty Summary for Helper, Apprentice, Journeyman, and Craftsman. Installs,
inspects, maintains, troubleshoots, modifies, repairs, and manages plumbing, water distribution,
wastewater collection systems, water and wastewater treatment systems, fire suppression,
backflow prevention systems, natural gas distribution systems, liquid fuel storage, distribution,
and dispensing systems. Complies with environmental and safety regulations. Related DoD
Occupational Subgroups: 172000.

7.1.2. Duties and Responsibilities:

7.1.2.1. Installs, and operates natural gas, plumbing, water and wastewater treatment systems,
fire suppression, backflow prevention systems, aircraft hydrant refueling, bulk storage, and
ground product dispensing systems. Monitors systems operation to ensure efficiency and
compliance with local state, federal and DoD regulations for safety and environmental
regulations for hazardous materials. Installs and operates field potable water treatment
equipment.

7.1.2.2. Maintains, inspects, and repairs natural gas, swimming pools, plumbing, water and
wastewater treatment systems, fire suppression, and backflow prevention assembly and program.
Performs inspection, recurring maintenance, winterize, and overhaul systems. Operationally
inspects and diagnoses malfunctions in mechanical and electrical system controls and
components using technical orders, manufactures‟ handbooks, local procedures, code and
directives. Inspects condition and operation of electrical components such as motors, disconnect
switches, contacts, solenoids, relays, alarms, cathodic protection systems and programmable
logic controls. Conducts fuel system components, and performs pressure testing and
maintenance on fuel system piping. Performs confined space entries to accomplish system
maintenance. Solves complex maintenance problems by studying layout drawings, wiring
diagrams, and schematics to analyze, isolate and troubleshoot system malfunctions. Removes,
repairs, and replaces defective components. Installs, modifies, repairs, and maintains a variety of
new and existing utility, supply, and disposal systems and equipment such as sewage, water, oil,
and gas distribution systems, and water closets, tubs, backflow prevention devices/assemblies,
fire sprinkler systems, and showers. Locates and taps main lines, sets up system routes, places
and cuts route openings, places hangers for proper level and slope, and determines and installs
valves, traps, and unions as needed for proper operation of a variety of systems and equipment.
Develops and establishes operation and maintenance procedures to ensure maximum efficiency.

7.1.2.3. Locates and determines quality and quantity of water sources. Coordinates locations of
field latrines and pits with engineering and medical staff. Analyzes water for chemical and
physical characteristics to determine water purification treatment methods. Installs and operates
field potable water treatment equipment. Assists with installation, maintenance and repair of
Fuels Mobility Support Equipment (FMSE), Fuels Operational Readiness Capability Equipment
(FORCE), and other contingency fueling assets.



                                                 7
7.1.2.4. Performs planning activities, quality assurance to include service contracts, and facility
surveys. Surveys proposed work to determine resource requirements. Initiates fuel facility
Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization and Military Construction Projects to include
project review, monitoring, and acceptance through DESC. Prepares cost estimates and supply
procurement for in-service work. Applies engineered performance standards to plan and estimate
jobs. Ensures all planning activities comply with environmental and safety regulations to include
hazardous materials.


7.2. Specialty Summary for Superintendents. Manages and directs daily activities devoted to
utilities systems; water distribution, wastewater collection, plumbing systems, natural gas and
liquid fuels distribution, liquid fuels storage and pest management as related to DoD
Occupational Subgroup: 172000.

7.2.1. Duties and Responsibilities:

7.2.1.2. Plans and organizes utilities activities to include installation, maintenance, and repair of
water and wastewater treatment plumbing systems, water distribution, wastewater collection
systems, and natural gas distribution systems; liquid fuels distribution systems and pest
management activities. Performs planning activities and facility surveys. Makes on-site
investigations of proposed work to determine resource requirements. Prepares cost estimates for
in-service work requirements. Applies engineered performance standards in planning and
estimating jobs. Coordinates plans with other civil engineering and base activities.

7.2.1.3. Directs all daily activities and supervisory functions in utilities, liquid fuels
maintenance, and pest management elements. Directs installation, maintenance and repair
activities to include water distribution, and wastewater collection systems, plumbing systems,
natural gas distribution systems, and liquid fuel distribution systems and pest management
activities. Identifies and controls requisitioning of systems, parts, fuels systems components,
lubricants, bench stock, and technical publications. Analyzes productivity and work quality.
Ensures compliance with environmental and safety regulations and practices for utility water
distribution and wastewater collection, natural gas distribution systems, fuel systms and Pest
Management, pesticides and hazardous materials.

7.2.1.4. Inspects and evaluates utilities activities. Inspects utilities activities, to ensure
compliance with policies and regulations. Assists in solving maintenance problems. Interprets
inspection findings and initiates corrective actions. Obtains required certifications for personnel.
Obtains special tools and equipment required for safe performance of tasks assigned.




8. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the
apprentice to the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to
accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do his or her part to
plan, manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of
the CFETP will ensure individuals receive viable training at appropriate points in their careers.


                                                  8
8.1. Apprentice (3-Level).

    8.1.1. Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a trainer to
    enhance their knowledge and skills to progress to the 5-Level.

    8.1.2. Complete mandatory CE Common Core Distance Learning product prior to
    ordering career development courses (CDC).

    8.1.3. Utilize the CDC, AFQTPs and other exportable courses for subject and task
    fundamentals in the career field. Successfully complete applicable CerTests for diamond
    core tasks.

    8.1.4. Once trained and task certified, a trainee may perform the task unsupervised.

    8.1.5. After all upgrade training requirements are complete, supervisors and UETMs
    coordinate upgrade procedures.

    Note: All trainees are automatically enrolled in CCAF when awarded their primary
    AFSC..

8.2. Journeyman (5-Level).

    8.2.1. A journeyman may be assigned job positions such as team leader, shift supervisor,
    and task trainer.

    8.2.2. Enter into continuation training to broaden experience base and to advance to the
    7-skill level.

    8.2.3. Must complete, as a minimum, fifteen months OJT before award of the 5-level.
    Nine months for re-trainees awarded a 5-level in a previous AFSC.

    8.2.4. Attend Airman Leadership School (ALS) after serving 48 months in the Air Force
    or selection to rank of SSgt (active duty only). In-residence or correspondence course is
    required for Air National Guard/Air Force Reserve Command (ANG/AFRC) personnel.

    8.2.5. Use CDCs and other reference material to prepare for Weighted Airman
    Promotion Systems (WAPS) testing.

    8.2.6. Continue pursuing a CCAF or higher degree.

    8.2.7. After all upgrade training requirements are completed, supervisors and UETMs
    coordinate upgrade procedures.




                                              9
8.3. Craftsman (7-Level).

    8.3.1. A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management positions such
    as shift leader, Operations Flight Prime Beef Liaison, Prime BEEF manager, team chief,
    supervisor, or task certifier.

    8.3.2. Completion of CE Common Core 7-level Distance Learning Course.

    8.3.3. 100 percent core/diamond task training is prerequisite to award of the 7-level.

    8.3.4. Completion of the 7-level Web-Based Training (WBT) course (in development,
    completion requirement pending release date).

    8.3.5. Must complete a minimum of twelve months OJT before award of the seven level.
    Six months for cross-trainees awarded a 7-level in a previous AFSC.
    8.3.6. Craftsmen should take continuation training courses or obtain added knowledge on
    management of resources and personnel.

    8.3.7. Attend the Non-Commissioned Officer Academy (NCOA) after promotion to
    Technical Sergeant (TSgt) (active duty only). Either the in-residence or correspondence
    course is required for ANG/AFRC personnel.

    8.3.8. Completion of education through CCAF and higher degree programs is highly
    recommended.

    8.3.9. After all upgrade training requirements are completed, supervisors and UETMs
    coordinate upgrade procedures.




                                            10
  8.4. Superintendent (9-Level).

       8.4.1. A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief, flight
       superintendents, and other various staff positions.

       8.4.2. Must be a SMSgt for award of the 9-skill level.

       8.4.3. Completion of CE Superintendent Course (Air Force Institute of Technology
       [AFIT] WMGT 570) is highly encouraged for 9-level superintendents.

       8.4.4. Should pursue increased knowledge of budget, manpower, resources, and
       personnel management.

       8.4.5. After completion of CCAF, recommend the pursuit of additional higher education
       and completion of courses outside of their career AFS.

       8.4.6. Attend the Non-commissioned Officer Academy (SNCOA) after selection for
       promotion to Senior Master Sergeant (SMSgt) (active duty only). A percentage of top
       non-selects (for promotion to E-8) MSgts attend SNCOA each year. Either the in-
       residence or correspondence course is required for ANG/AFRC personnel.

  8.5. Civil Engineer Manager (CEM).

       8.5.1. CEMs work in a variety of similar jobs and functional areas using general
       managerial and supervisory abilities to effectively meet organizational challenges.

       8.5.3. Resident graduation of the USAF SNCOA is a prerequisite for Chief Master
       Sergeant (CMSgt) promotion (active duty only).         Either the in-residence or
       correspondence course is required for ANG/AFRC personnel.

     8.5.4. Completion of the Chief Leadership Course (CLC) is mandatory.

9. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Water and Fuel Systems
Maintenance career field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet
the training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of
training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training. The following decisions were made at
the Utilization & Training Workshop held at Sheppard AFB, TX in 5-9 November 2007.

  9.1. Initial Skills Training. The initial skills course was reviewed for content. Additions,
  deletions, and modifications were made to the course. Wartime training tasks were identified.
  Additional contingency training was also identified.

  9.2. Five Level Upgrade Training Requirements. Existing CDCs were reviewed and
  updated to ensure only current material remained and new technology information was added.




                                               11
  9.3. Seven Level Upgrade Training Requirements. 7-level training requirements were
  reviewed. Civil Engineering common 7-level in residence training was discontinued in favor
  of AFSC specific 7-level WBT course when available.

  9.4. Proficiency Training. Any additional knowledge and skill requirements that were not
  taught through initial skills or upgrade training are assigned as continuation training. The
  purpose of continuation training is to provide training exceeding minimum upgrade training
  requirements with emphasis on present and future duty positions. MAJCOMs must develop a
  continuation-training program that ensures personnel in the Water and Fuel Systems
  Maintenance career field receive the necessary training at the appropriate point in their
  careers. The training program will identify both mandatory and optional training
  requirements.

  9.5. Supplemental Training. Subject Matter Experts (SME) and the Training Committee
  reviewed supplemental training courses for technical accuracy and identified training that was
  no longer required. They revalidated the remaining courses as necessary to fully support
  career progression in the AFS.

  9.6. CerTest. Originally, the CerTest program was developed to support transition training
  and meet DoD certification requirements. Now, it is also the singular platform to launch
  AFQTP tests and supplement the evaluation of OJT.

10. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Airmen are automatically enrolled in
CCAF upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an
Associate in Applied Sciences Degree. In addition to its associate‟s degree program, CCAF
offers the following:

  10.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification
  training (consisting of the instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching): CCAF
  instructors who possess an associate‟s degree or higher may be nominated by their school
  commander and/or commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.

  10.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
  certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a
  competency-based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency
  levels: Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman (Supervisor), or Master Craftsman (Manager).
  All are transcribed on the CCAF transcript.




                                              12
11. The Mechanical and Electrical Technology Associates Degree (4VGA).


  11.1. Degree Requirements. Prior to completing an Associate‟s Degree, the individual must
  be awarded a 5-level and the following requirements must be met:

       Subject/Course                                          Semester Hours

       Technical Education                                            24
       Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                    6
       Physical Education                                              4
       General Education                                              15
       Program Elective                                               15
            Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and
            Military Studies; or General Education

       Total                                                          64

  11.2. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of
  Technical Core subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours
  applied from Technical Core or Technical Elective subjects and courses.

       Technical Core Requirements                             Semester Hours

       CCAF Internship                                                16
       Electrical Power Production                                    20
       Electrical Systems                                             20
       Heating Systems                                                20
       Liquid Fuel Systems                                            20
       Utilities Systems                                              20
       Refrigeration and Air Conditioning                             20
       Waste Management                                                3

       Technical Electives                                     Semester Hours

       Air Distribution and Filtering Systems                          3
       Alternate Heating and Cooling                                   3
       Blueprint Reading/Schematic Diagrams                            6
       Building Codes and Ordinance                                    3
       Computer Science                                                6
       Control Systems/Maintenance                                     6
       Electricity/Electronics                                         9
       Engine Principles                                               3
       Environmental Awareness                                         3
       Environmental Compliance                                        3
       Fire Suppression Systems                                        6
       General Chemistry/Biology                                       8


                                            13
      General Physics                                                    4
      Hazardous Materials                                                6
      Industrial Management                                              3
      Industrial Safety                                                  3
      Mechanics of Soils                                                 3
      Motor, Starter, and Control Devices                                6
      Natural Gas Distribution                                           6
      Principles of Electronics                                          3
      Quality Assurance                                                  3
      Technical Mathematics                                              3
      Technical Physics                                                  4
      Technical Writing                                                  3
      Welding and Pipefitting                                            3

11.3. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional
military education, civilian management courses accepted in transfer and/or by testing credit.

11.4. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion
of Basic Military Training.

11.5. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria
for application of courses to the general education requirements and agree with the definitions
of applicable general education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.


      General Education                                            Semester Hours

      Oral Communication                                                 3
        Speech
      Written Communication                                              3
        English Composition
      Mathematics                                                        3
        An intermediate algebra or college-level mathematics
        course that satisfies the delivering institutions
        mathematics requirement for graduation. If an
        acceptable mathematics course is applied as a
        Technical or Program Elective, a natural science
        course may be substituted for mathematics.
      Social Science                                                     3
        Anthropology, Archaeology, Economics, Geography,
        Government, History, Political Science, Psychology,
        Sociology
      Humanities                                                         3
        Fine Arts (criticism, appreciation, historical
        significance), foreign language, literature, philosophy,
        religion



                                             14
   11.6. Program Elective (15 semester hours) Courses applying to Technical Education,
   Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (LMMS) or general education requirements;
   natural science courses meeting general education requirement application criteria; foreign
   language credit earned at Defense Language Institute or through the Defense Language
   Proficiency Test; maximum 9 SHs of CCAF degree-applicable technical course credit
   otherwise not applicable to program of enrollment. See the CCAF General Catalog for details
   regarding the Associates of Applied Sciences degree for this specialty.

11.7. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals
desiring to become an AETC Instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A
degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of
Colleges and Schools.




                                                15
12. Career Field Path. The following chart depicts this specialty‟s career path.




                             WFM Enlisted Career Pyramid
                               Enlisted Career Pyramid

                                                                22 yrs
                                                                Average
                                                                  22 yrs
                               Civil Engineer                                     HQ, FOA, & Other
                                                                  Average
                                Civil Engineer
                               Manager                                             HQ, FOA, & Other
                                Manager
                                                                                           Master Badge
                                                                     20 yrs
                                                                     Average                Master Badge
                   Superintendent/                  9                  20 yrs
                      Superintendent/                                  Average
                   Infrastructure                     9
                                                  LEVEL
                         Utilities
                                                   LEVEL
                         Infrastructure                                    16 yrs
                                            7 LEVEL                        Average
                                                                             16 yrs
                                              7 LEVEL                        Average

                            7 LEVEL                   Worker                  13 yrs
                                                     Supervisor               Average
                                                        Worker                  13 yrs
     Senior                                            Supervisor                Average
      Senior Badge                        CRAFTSMAN
     Badge
                                           CRAFTSMAN
                                            TECH SCHOOL

                                             5TECH SCHOOL
                                               LEVEL
                                                                                       6 yrs
                                               5 LEVEL
                                                    Section Worker                     Average
                                                                                         6 yrs
                                                          Section Worker                 Average
                                              Worker/Superv
                                                Worker/Supervisor
                                   JOURNEYMAN isor                                         36 months
                                    JOURNEYMAN (15 months OJT)
                                  CDC/OJT/QTP                                                36 months
                                      CDC/OJT/QTP             (15 months OJT)
                                              3 LEVEL
                                                 3 LEVEL
                                                                                                   16 months
     Basic                                                       Section Worker
      Basic Badge                                                                                    16 months
     Badge                                                         Section Worker
                           APPRENTICE
    Initial Skills           APPRENTICE
      Training                                                       Trainee/Worker
      Initial Skills
        Training                                                       Trainee/Worker                      6 months
                        TECH SCHOOL                                               Student

                          TECH SCHOOL                                                 Student
                                                                                       Student
                       BASIC MILITARY TRAINING
                        BASIC MILITARY TRAINING                                          Student




                                                     16
      12.1. Enlisted Career Path

Table: Enlisted Career Path
                                                                        GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training Requirements                  Rank          Average    Earliest  High Year Of Tenure
                                                                   Sew-On     Sew-On          (HYT)
Basic Military Training school
Apprentice Technical School                          Amn           6 months
(3-Skill Level)                                      A1C          16 months
Upgrade To Journeyman                                SRA            3 years       28 months                12 Years
(5-Skill Level)                                                                   (22months
-- Complete all core/diamond tasks identified                                     for Below-
in CFETP.                                                                         The Zone)
- Minimum 15 months on-the-job training
(9 months for retrainees)
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when
available.
Airman Leadership School                                                            Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in             - Must be qualified and certified to the perform tasks to be trained.
service or be a SSgt Selectee.                     - Must attend Air Force Training Course.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Craftsman                                 SSgt         7.5 Years         3 years                20 Years
(7-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- 12 months OJT.
- Complete 7-level Craftsman Course (if
applicable).
- Complete all core (**) tasks identified in
CFETP
                                                                                     Certifier
                                                   - SSgt with 5-skill level or civilian equivalent.
                                                   - Must attend Air Force Training Course.
                                                   - Be a person other than the trainer (for core and critical tasks only).
Noncommissioned Officer Academy                       TSgt       12.5 years          5 years                24 Years
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
MSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).                      MSgt          16 years         8 years                26 Years
USAF Senior NCO Academy
- Must be a SMSgt, SMSgt selectee, or
selected MSgt
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
CMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only)
Upgrade To Superintendent                           SMSgt         19.2 Years       11 years                28 Years
(9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.
- Recommended completion of the AFIT
WMGT 570, Civil Engineer Superintendent
Course.
Civil Engineer Manager (CEM)                        CMSgt         21.5 Years       14 years                30 Years
- Completion of Chief Leadership course is
Mandatory




                                                             17
12.2. CE Occupational Badge. The Civil Engineer badge reflects a great history and
tradition. By wearing it, you will be recognized by your fellow Airmen as having achieved an
expected level of competence. The multitude of engineers before you established this
expectation through excellent service in both peace and war. Eligibility criteria for award and
wear of AF occupational badges can be found in AFI 36-2923, Aeronautical, Duty, and
Occupational Badges.




                                       Master
  Worn as a master sergeant or above with 5 years in the specialty from award of the 7-
                                      skill level




               Basic                                               Senior
   Worn upon completion of technical                    Worn after award of the 7-skill
               school                                               level



                                    CE Badge Heraldry
 The gear wheel and compass have historically been used to represent the engineering
 profession, in both the military and civilian sector. The gear represents the essence of
 engineering: applying scientific principles and technology to practical ends. To Air
 Force engineers, the gear symbolizes an element (representing the built environment)
 that meshes with other environments (weapon systems and trained personnel) to enable
 the Air Force to perform its mission. The compass is a precision tool historically used
 by engineers in designing and constructing facilities and equipment. The gear and
 compass together symbolize all the diverse specialties within Air Force Civil Engineer.
 Finally, the wings help to portray the fundamental linkage between the engineering and
 aviation components; and that the built environment is the foundation supporting Air
 Force mission and people.




                                             18
               SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

13. Purpose. The various skill levels in the career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements for the Water and Fuel Systems Maintenance career ladder. They are
stated in broad, general terms and establish the standards of performance. An all-encompassing
core task list has been developed for this specialty because of the diversity of the missions
supported and the equipment installed to meet mission requirements. Core tasks (and diamond
tasks as applicable), knowledge items, and skill requirements for this specialty are identified in
the STS. Completion of the mandatory 3-level awarding course, the mandatory completion of
CDCs, and the mandatory completion of applicable AFQTPs comprise Air Force requirements.


14. Specialty Qualification.

   14.1. Apprentice (3-Level) Training Requirements.

      14.1.1. Specialty Qualification.

         14.1.1.1. Knowledge. Completion of the Water and Fuel Systems Maintenance
         Apprentice course and AFCESA Common Core CBT.

         14.1.1.2. Education. Completion of high school or General Education Development
         (GED) with courses in mathematics, chemistry, biology, physics, earth science, drawing
         and specification use and shop mechanics is desirable.

         14.1.1.3. Training. Completion of the Water and Fuel Systems Maintenance
         Apprentice course.

         14.1.1.4. Experience. N/A

         14.1.1.5. Other.

            14.1.1.5.1. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and
            Standards.

            14.1.1.5.2. Qualification to operate government vehicles according to AFMAN 24-
            301, Vehicle Operations.

            14.1.1.5.3. Freedom from fear of confined spaces (Claustrophobia).

            14.1.1.5.4. Freedom from fear of heights (Acrophobia).

            14.1.1.5.5. See AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted),
            for additional entry requirements.

      14.1.2. Training Sources and Resources.



                                                19
         14.1.2.1. Formal training is accomplished through the Water and Fuel Systems
         Maintenance Apprentice course at Sheppard AFB, TX.

         14.1.2.2. The Course Objective List (COL) (Part II, Section B of this CFETP) identifies
         all the knowledge and tasks, with their respective standards.

         14.1.2.3. When available, AFQTPs and associated CerTests are mandatory for use
         during UGT/QT on all core tasks, critical tasks, and diamond () tasks.

      14.1.3. Implementation. The 3-skill level is awarded upon graduating the Water and
      Fuel Systems Maintenance Apprentice course along with the common-core training.

   14.2. Journeyman (5-Level) Training Requirements.

      14.2.1. Specialty Qualification.

14.2.1.1. Knowledge. Must have mandatory knowledge of contingency/peacetime operations in
hydraulic, electrical, mechanical theories, and principles that apply to all utility and liquid fuel
systems and be familiar with characteristics, physiological effects, and hazards of liquid fuel
products. This includes knowing types, sizes, and uses of plumbing materials and components.
Reading and interpreting drawings and specifications, military and commercial publications, and
environmental regulations. Maintaining water distribution, wastewater collection, and natural gas
distribution systems and corrosion prevention systems. Must have knowledge of Prime BEEF
program its role in supporting worldwide contingency operations.

         14.2.1.2. Education. N/A

         14.2.1.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the 5-skill level:

            14.2.1.3.1. Completion of 5-skill level CDCs.

            14.2.1.3.2. Certification of all 5-level core tasks identified with a single asterisk (*)
            in the 5-level core task column of the STS.

            14.2.1.3.3. Completion of AFQTPs for assigned core tasks and diamond () tasks.

            14.2.1.3.4. Completion of CerTests for all diamond () tasks with a minimum of
            80%.

            14.2.1.3.5. The following training is desirable and strongly encouraged:

               14.2.1.3.6.1. Completion of the Liquid Fuels Maintenance course (when
            available).

              14.2.1.3.6.2. Completion of Liquid Fuel Storage Tank Entry Supervision course
            (when prerequisites are met).



                                                 20
           14.2.1.3.6.3. Completion of the Fire Suppression Systems Maintenance course.

          14.2.1.3.6.4. Completion of the Backflow Prevention Devices Testing course
        (MTT).
          14.2.1.3.6.5. Completion of the Reverse Osmosis Water Purification Unit
        (ROWPU) course.

     14.2.1.4. Experience.

        14.2.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of 3-skill level.

        14.2.1.4.2. Operation, maintenance and repair of Water and Fuel Systems
        Maintenance equipment and analysis of WFSM subsystems.

        14.2.1.4.3. Minimum 15 months on-the-job training (9 months for re-trainees)
        before award of 5-skill level.

     14.2.1.5. Other. N/A

     14.2.1.6. Training Sources and Resources.

        14.2.1.6.1. CDC 3E451, Water and Fuel Systems Maintenance Journeyman.

        14.2.1.6.2. The STS (Part II, Section A of the CFETP) identifies all core tasks
        required for qualification in the individual‟s duty position.

        14.2.1.6.3. Qualified trainers provide upgrade and qualification training for duty
        positions, managed programs, and/or equipment to be used.

        14.2.1.6.4. A variety of AFQTPs and Commercial Off-the-Shelf (COTS) products.

     14.2.1.7. Implementation. Entry into 5-level upgrade training is initiated after the
     trainee completes the 3-level school and is assigned to his or her first duty station.
     Also, qualification training is initiated any time individuals are assigned duties they are
     not certified to perform. AFQTPs are used concurrently to obtain necessary duty
     position qualifications.

     14.2.1.8. Position Qualification. Certification of duty position requirements identified
     by the supervisor can consist of the STS, AF Form 797, 1098 and 623 Part III task. Core
     tasks from the STS may be included as part of the duty position if they are part of the
     requirements for being qualified for a particular position. These items make up the
     MTL/MTP and vary from base to base. Duty position requirements are no longer
     considered as upgrade training requirements.

14.3. Craftsman (7-Level) Training Requirements.



                                             21
      14.3.1. Specialty Qualification.

14.3.1.1. Knowledge. Must have mandatory knowledge of contingency/peacetime operations in
hydraulic, electrical, mechanical theories, and principles that apply to all utility and liquid fuel
systems and be familiar with characteristics, physiological effects, and hazards of liquid fuel
products. This includes knowing types, sizes, and uses of plumbing materials and components.
Reading and interpreting drawings and specifications, military and commercial publications, and
environmental regulations. Maintaining water distribution, wastewater collection, and natural gas
distribution systems and corrosion prevention systems. Must have knowledge of Prime BEEF
program its role in supporting world-wide contingency operations.


         14.3.1.2. Education.

            14.3.1.2.1. Completion of the CE 7-level Common Core Distance Learning Module
            is mandatory.

            14.3.1.2.2. To assume the rank of SSgt, individuals must successfully complete
            Airman Leadership School (active duty only).

            14.3.1.2.3. To assume the rank of MSgt, individuals must successfully complete the
            NCO Academy (active duty only).

            14.3.1.2.4. For ANG/AFRC, completion of Air Force Institute for Advanced
            Distributive Learning (AFIADL) courses 00001 (ALS) and 00006 D&E (NCO
            Academy) satisfy rank prerequisites.

         14.3.1.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the 7-skill level:

            14.3.1.3.1. Certification of all 5 and 7-skill level core tasks identified with a single
            asterisk (*) in the 5-level core task column and double asterisk (**) in the 7-level
            core task column of the STS.

            14.3.1.3.2. Completion of all AFQTPs for assigned core and diamond () tasks

            14.3.1.3.3. Completion of CerTests for all diamond () tasks with a minimum of
            80%.

            14.3.1.3.4. Completion of any/all of the following advanced courses is highly
            desirable:

               14.3.1.3.5.1. Liquid Fuel Storage Tank Entry Supervision course.

               14.3.1.3.5.2. Liquid Fuel Maintenance Technician course.




                                                 22
         14.3.1.3.5.3. Fire Suppression Systems Maintenance course.

         14.3.1.3.5.4. Backflow Prevention Devices Testing course (MTT).

         14.3.1.3.5.5. Reverse Osmosis Water Purification Unit (ROWPU) course.


   14.3.1.4. Experience.

      14.3.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of a 5-level

      14.3.1.4.2. Must be SSgt with minimum 12 months on-the-job training (6 months
      for re-trainees).

   14.3.1.5. Other. N/A.

14.3.2. Training Sources and Resources.

   14.3.2.1. Water and Fuel Systems Maintenance Craftsman course (when available).

   14.3.2.2. The STS (Part II, Section A of this CFETP) identifies all core tasks required
   for qualification in the individual‟s duty position.

   14.3.2.3. Qualified trainers provide upgrade and qualification training for duty
   positions, managed programs, and/or equipment to be used.

   14.3.2.4. NCO Academy course (correspondence).

   14.3.2.5. Liquid Fuels Maintenance Technician course.

   14.3.2.6. Liquid Fuel Storage Tank Entry (Supervisor) course.

   14.3.2.7. Fire Suppression Systems Maintenance course.

   14.3.2.8. Backflow Prevention Devices Testing course (MTT).


14.3.3. Implementation. Entry into 7-level training is initiated when an individual is
selected for SSgt and has fulfilled all 5-level requirements. Qualification training is
initiated any time an individual is assigned duties that they are not certified to perform.
AFQTPs are used concurrently to obtain necessary duty position qualifications.

14.3.4. Position Qualification. Certification of duty position requirements identified by
the supervisor can consist of the STS, AF Form 797, 1098 and 623 Part III task. Core tasks
from the STS may be included as part of the duty position if they are part of the
requirements for being qualified for a particular position. These items make up the



                                           23
      MTL/MTP and vary from base to base. Duty position requirements are no longer
      considered as upgrade training requirements.



   14.4. Superintendent (9-Level) Training Requirements.

      14.4.1. Specialty Qualification.

14.4.1.1. Knowledge. Highly skilled/educated in principles of contingency/peacetime for water
distribution and wastewater collection systems, water and wastewater treatment systems,
plumbing systems, natural gas distribution systems, liquid fuels distribution systems, and pest
management activities; industrial wastewater treatment; uses of maintenance materials and
components such as pipes, valves, fittings, packing and gaskets; electrical and electronic controls
that apply to these systems; wiring schematics and diagrams; military, commercial, and technical
publications; environmental regulations for fuels, pesticides, and hazardous materials.
Additionally, have knowledge of Prime BEEF program and its role in supporting worldwide
contingency operations.

         14.4.1.2. Education.

            14.4.1.2.1. Completion of Senior NCO Academy is mandatory prior to award of 9-
            skill level.

            14.4.1.2.2. ANG/AFRC must complete AFIADL course 00014(computer base CD-
            ROM) or in-residence Senior NCO Academy course prior to award of the 9-skill
            level.

            14.4.1.2.3. Completion of AFIT 570 Civil Engineer Superintendent course is highly
            recommended.

         14.4.1.2. Experience.

            14.4.1.4.1. Qualification in and possession of 7-skill level is mandatory.

            14.4.1.4.2. Minimum rank of SMSgt with experience directing functions such as
            inspecting, operating, maintaining and repairing Water and Fuel Systems
            Maintenance systems.

         14.4.1.5. Other. N/A

      14.4.2. Training Sources and Resources.

         14.4.2.1. In-residence Senior NCO Academy located at Maxwell AFB - Gunter Annex
         AL.




                                                24
     14.4.2.2. Senior NCO Academy Course 00014(exportable computer based CD-ROM).

     14.4.2.3. Civil Engineer Superintendent Course, WMGT 570, conducted at AFIT,
     Wright-Patterson AFB, OH.

  14.4.3. Implementation. Entry into 9-level training is initiated when an individual is
  selected for SMSgt and is a fully qualified 7-Level. Qualification training is initiated any
  time an individual is assigned duties they are not certified to perform.

14.5. Civil Engineer Manager.

  14.5.1. Specialty Qualification.

     14.5.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of managing and directing personnel
     resource activities, interpreting and enforcing policy and applicable directives,
     establishing control procedures to meet work goals and standards, recommending or
     initiating actions to improve operational efficiency, planning and programming work
     commitments and schedules, and developing plans regarding facilities, supplies, and
     equipment procurement and maintenance.

     14.5.1.2. Education. Must be a resident graduate of Senior NCO Academy (active
     duty only). Completion of the Chief Leadership Course is mandatory.

     14.5.1.3. Training. N/A

     14.5.1.4. Experience. Possess qualifications in feeder specialty (3E491) prior to award
     of Civil Engineer Manager Code 3E000. Individual must possess the managerial ability
     to plan, direct, coordinate, implement and control a wide range of work activity.

     14.5.1.5. Other. N/A

     14.5.1.6. Training Sources and Resources. N/A

     14.5.1.7. Implementation. Entry into Civil Engineer Manager Code 3E000 is
     initiated when an individual is selected for CMSgt and possesses qualifications in a
     feeder specialty (3E090, 3E191, 3E291, 3E391, 3E490, 3E591, and 3E691).




                                            25
                        SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

15. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints, which preclude optimal and
desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and
manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement
describing what effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section
are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource
constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

   15.1 Equipment Constraints:

      15.1.1. Constraints: None

      15.1.2. Time/Manpower/Student Man-years Constraints: None

16. Apprentice (3-Level) Training: None

17. Journeyman (5-Level) Training. The Water and Fuel Systems Maintenance has four
supplemental courses in development/revision. They are being designed to replace the existing
Water and Fuel Systems Maintenance advanced 5-level courses. Minimal new equipment should
be required for these four new courses. The CREs will list specific information when submitted.
Manpower authorizations should be transferred from the existing Water and Fuel Systems
Maintenance supplemental courses to the new courses.

18. Craftsman (7-level) Level Training. None

19. Superintendent (9-Level) Training. None.




                                                26
                  SECTION E – TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE

20. CDCs. All members affected by the 3E4X1 and 3E4X2 AFSC merger who have completed
the opposite CDC set in LFM and Utilities will not be required to take the new combined CDC
(A&B set).

21. AFTR. The AFTR web site will be cross-referencing LFM and Utilities personnel training
records to reflect changes according to the new CFETP. Supervisors must manually document
training on the 623 until this process is updated on AFTR.

22. CCAF. Mechanical & Electrical Technology (4VGA) will be the assigned CCAF degree
plan for WFSM. Utilities personnel currently enrolled under Environmental Systems Technology
(9IEY) will have the option to continue with this degree plan.




                                             27
PART II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for the 3-
level WFM Apprentice Course with class beginning 02 Mar 09 and graduating 30 Jun 09.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201v5, Air Force Training Program, Career Field
Education and Training, this STS:

  2.1. Lists in Column 1 (Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical References) the most common
  tasks, knowledge, and Technical References (TR) necessary for Airmen to perform duties in
  the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.

  2.2. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies core tasks (specialty-wide training requirements) by an
  asterisk (*) in the 5-skill level column or a double asterisk (**) in the 7-skill level column. As
  a minimum, trainees must complete hands-on certification on all core and critical tasks
  for skill-level upgrade.

     2.2.1. All tasks in the 3-level course column are considered wartime tasks. Consequently,
     in response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3-level course in a
     streamlined training environment.

     2.2.2. Tasks identified by a diamond () in column 2 are considered contingency tasks for
     both the 5- and 7-skill level and are extremely important to the career field. However,
     equipment shortfalls at most locations have created problems with the actual hands-on
     certification of these tasks. In instances where required equipment is not available for
     instruction, completion of the task‟s AFQTP and passing the corresponding CerTest is all
     that is required for upgrade and qualification training.

  2.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of task and
  knowledge training requirements. The CE CFM‟s approved automated training record AFTR
  (Air Force Training Record) must be used to document technician qualifications. Task
  certification must show a training completion date and initials of the trainee, trainer, and
  certifier. All non-core tasks require training completion date and initials of the trainee and
  trainer only.

  2.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
  proficiency the graduate must demonstrate on the job. The training and knowledge for
  column 4 tasks were accomplished in both the initial skills course and correspondence course.
  In addition, Airmen can view the CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit
  education and training manager for current CDC listings.

  2.5. Identifies qualitative requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key
  used to indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
  development courses.



                                                28
2.6. Job Qualification Standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in AF Form
623, Individual Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201v3, Air Force Training
Program on Job Training Administration and/or AFI 36-2201v5, Air Force Training
Program, Career Field Education and Training. For OJT, the tasks in Column 1 are trained
and qualified to the go/no go level. Go means the individual can perform the task without
assistance and meets local requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of
procedures. AFQTPs, when available, shall be used to identify Air Force standardized
procedures. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:

  2.6.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training.

     2.6.1.1. Identify current duty position requirements by circling the subparagraph
     number or letter next to the task statement. Additionally, all core (* or **) and diamond
     () identified tasks should be circled. Document task completion by annotating
     columns 3A, 3B, 3C, 3D and 3E, as appropriate.
     NOTE: All entries shall be made in pencil.

     2.6.1.2. Enter the start date of the AFQTP on the AFQTP documentation record. Once
     completed enter the completion date. When hands-on training is started and
     completed, annotate the STS accordingly.

     2.6.1.3. Transcribing from old document (paper or automated) to CFETP. Use the
     new STS to identify and certify all current and past task qualifications.

        2.6.1.3.1. For tasks previously certified and still required in the current duty
        position:

           2.6.1.3.1.1. For core and critical tasks, the trainer and certifier evaluate
           Airman‟s current qualifications and validate the Airman‟s ability to complete the
           task. The new certified date is entered in column 3B and the trainee and certifier
           enter their initials in columns 3C and 3E, respectively.

           2.6.1.3.1.2. For non-core duty position tasks, the trainer evaluates the Airman's
           current qualifications and validates the Airman's ability to complete the task. The
           current date is entered in column 3B and the trainee and trainer enter their initials
           in columns 3C and 3D, respectively.

        2.6.1.3.2. To transcribe previous certification for tasks not required in the
        current duty position, carry forward only the previous completion dates (not the
        initials of another person). If these tasks become a duty position requirement,
        recertify with current date and trainee, trainer and certifier‟s initials.

     2.6.1.4. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available, the
     supervisor identifies STS training references that the trainee requires for career
     knowledge IAW AFI 36-2201v3, Air Force Training Program on Job Training
     Administration, and ensures, as a minimum, that trainees cover all mandatory items


                                            29
        specified in AFMAN 36-2108, Enlisted Classification. For two-time CDC exam
        failures, the unit commander will take appropriate action IAW AFI 36-2201v3, Air
        Force Training Program on Job Training Administration,. NOTE: Career knowledge
        must be documented prior to submitting a CDC waiver.

        2.6.1.5. Decertification and Recertification. Once verified that an Airman is
        unqualified on a task, the supervisor must erase previous certification date and enter the
        Airman into qualification training. The reason for decertification is annotated on the
        AF Form 623a (On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet). After the trainee
        demonstrates competence, use the normal certification process to recertify the
        individual.

  2.7. The STS also serves as a development guide for promotion tests used in the Weighted
  Airman Promotion System (WAPS). Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in
  their career fields develop specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) at the USAF Occupational
  Measurement Squadron. The objective of these tests is to sample one‟s STS knowledge.
  Working off this premise, the test development team unanimously determined the appropriate
  subject matter areas for promotion to higher grades. Note: Test questions stem from study
  references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in chapter 14 of AFI
  36-2606, United States Air Force Reenlistment, Retention, and NCO Status Programs.
  WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Reserve Forces.

3. Recommendations. AETC welcomes comments and recommendations concerning the
quality of training AETC graduates receive. Reference specific STS paragraphs and address
correspondence regarding changes to 782 TRG/TGAV, 620 9th Avenue, Suite 3, Sheppard AFB
TX 76311-2268. For supervisor‟s convenience, a Customer Service Information Line (CSIL)
has been installed to expedite feedback on graduates who may have received over or under
training on task/knowledge items listed in this training standard. For a quick response to
problems, call our CSIL at DSN: 736-2574 or e-mail csil@sheppard.af.mil any time day or night.

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE


OFFICIAL                                    LOREN M. RENO, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            Logistics, Installation and Mission Support

Attachments
Abbreviations and Terms Explained




                                               30
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                       Initials (Written)             only last 4 of SSAN

                                               Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                    N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I



            QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                             Proficiency Code Key
                                    Scale     Definition: The individual
                                    Value
                                       1      Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                              Limited)
          Task                         2      Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance                      3      Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                        4      Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                              (Highly Proficient)
                                       a      Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
         *Task                         b      Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge                       c      Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                              (Operating Principles)
          Levels                       d      Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                       A      Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
     **Subject                         B      Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
    Knowledge                          C      Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
      Levels                           D      Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.




                                                                         31
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L

1 CE ORGANIZATION AND CAREER
  FIELD STRUCTURE TR: AFDD 2-4.2;
  AFIs 10-209, 10-210, 10-211, 32-1022,
  366-2101, 38-101, Enlisted Classification
  Directory; War Mobilization Plan
  (WMP)-1.
1.1 Civil Engineer (CE) Structure                                                                                      -        A        -        B       -        -
1.2 Progression in Career Ladder                                                                                       -        A        -        B       -        -
1.3 Duties and Responsibilities
1.3.1 Peacetime                                                                                                        -        A        -        B       -        -
1.3.2 Contingency                                                                                                      -        A        -        B       -        -
1.4 Functions of:
1.4.1 Base Civil Engineer (BCE)                                                                                        -        A        -        B       -        -
1.4.2 Prime BEEF                                                                                                       -        A        -        B       -        -
1.4.3 RED HORSE                                                                                                        -        A        -        B       -        -
1.4.4 HQ Air National Guard (ANG) Air                                                                                  -        A        -        B       -        -
      Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
1.4.5 HQ Air Force Civil Engineer Support                                                                              -         -       -        A       -       B
      Agency (AFCESA)
1.4.6 HQ Air Force Center for Engineering                                                                              -         -       -        -       -       A
      and the Environmental (AFCEE)
1.4.7 Air Force Institute of Technology                                                                                -         -       -        -       -       A
      (AFIT)
1.4.8 Air Force Research Laboratory                                                                                    -         -       -        -       -       A
      (AFRL)
1.5 Resources
1.5.1 Assess manpower requirements                                                                                     -         -       -        -       -        b
1.5.2 Identify budget requirements                                                                                     -         -       -        -       -        b
1.5.3 Determine equipment requirements                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -        b
1.5.4 Use Allowance Standards (AS)                                                                                     -         -       -        -       -        b
1.5.5 Research, Development, and
      Acquisition (RD&A) TR: DoDD
      5000.1
1.5.5.1 Process                                                                                                        -         -       -        -       -       B
1.5.5.2 Unit Responsibilities                                                                                          -         -       -        -       -       B
1.5.5.3 Major Command Responsibilities                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -       B
1.5.6 Assess vehicle requirements                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -       B
1.5.7 Request contract services                                                                                        -         -       -        -       -       B
1.5.8 Requesting Simplified Acquisition of                                                                             -         -       -        -       -       B
      Base Engineering Requirements
      (SABER) contract
1.5.9 Geo Base Technologies                                                                                            -         -       -        B       -       B
1.5.10 Quality Assurance Personnel (QAP)
      duties TR: Federal Acquisition
      Regulation Part 37.6; AFI 63-124;
      AFPAM 32-1004 V2
1.5.10.1 Evaluate contractor's performance                                                                             -         -       -        -       -        -
1.5.10.2 Document contractor's                                                                                         -         -       -        -       -        -
        performance



                                                                     32
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L

1.5.10.3 Maintain surveillance                                                                                         -         -       -        -       -        -
        documentation
2 SUPERVISION TR: AFIs 36-2201, 36-
  2304, 36-3401; Enlisted Classification
  Directory
2.1 Orient new personnel                                                                                               -         -       -        -       -        b
2.2 Assign personnel to work crew                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -        b
2.3 Coordinate work assignments                                                                                        -         -       -        -       -        b
2.4 Schedule work assignments and                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -        b
    priorities
2.5 Establish:
2.5.1 Work Methods                                                                                                     -         -       -        -       -        b
2.5.2 Controls                                                                                                         -         -       -        -       -        b
2.5.3 Performance Standards                                                                                            -         -       -        -       -        b
2.6 Evaluate work performance of                                                                                       -         -       -        -       -        b
    subordinate personnel
2.7 Resolve technical problems for                                                                                     -         -       -        -       -        b
    subordinate personnel
2.8 Direct projects                                                                                                    -         -       -        -       -        b
3 TRAINING TR: AFIs 36-2101, 36-2201;
  AFPD 36-22; Enlisted Classification
  Directory
3.1 Evaluate personnel to determine need                                                                               -         -       -        a       -        b
    for training
3.2 Enlisted Specialty Training Supervision
3.2.1 Prepare job qualification standards                                                                              -         -       -        a       -        b
3.2.2 Conduct training                                                                                                 -         -       -        a       -        b
3.2.3 Counsel trainees on their progress                                                                               -         -       -        a       -        b
3.2.4 Monitor training effectiveness
3.2.4.1 Career Knowledge                                                                                               -         -       -        a       -        b
3.2.4.2 Job Proficiency Upgrade                                                                                        -         -       -        a       -        b
3.2.4.3 Qualification                                                                                                  -         -       -        a       -        b
3.3 Maintain training records                                                                                          -         -       -        a       -        b
3.4 Evaluate training programs                                                                                         -         -       -        a       -        b
    effectiveness
3.5 Recommend people for training                                                                                      -         -       -        a       -       b
3.6 AETC Training Management System                                                                                    -         -       -        A       -       B
    (Training Allocation)
3.7 Managing Certification and Testing                                                                                 -         -       -        A       -       B
    (CerTest)
3.8 National/DoD Certification                                                                                         -         -       -        A       -       B
    Requirements
3.9 Air Force Qualification Training                                                                                   -         -       -        A       -       B
    Package (AFQTP) Requirements
4 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS
  AND COMPLIANCE TR AFI 32-7045;
  AFPD 32-70; EO 12856
4.1 Environmental Compliance (ECAMP,                                                                                   -         -       -        A       -       B
    ESOHCAMP)



                                                                     33
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L
4.2 Environmental Protection Agency                                                                                    -         -       -        A       -       B
   (EPA)
5 CE MANAGEMENT TR: AFIs 32-
  1001, 32-1022; AFPAMs 32-1098, 32-
  1125 V-1; AFMAN 23-110
5.1 Customer relationships                                                                                             -        A        -        B       -       -
5.2 Work identification and authorization                                                                              -        -        -        A       -       B
5.3 Plan work requirements                                                                                             -        -        -        A       -       B
5.4 Plan logistics support                                                                                             -        -        -        A       -       B
(CEMAS, BOM)
5.5 Government Purchase Card (GPC)                                                                                     -         -       -        A       -       B
   Program
5.6 Maintain Recurring Work Program                                                                                    -         -       -        A       -       B
   (RWP)
5.7 Scheduling/Time Accounting                                                                                         -         -       -        A       -       B
5.8 Warranty and Guarantee Program                                                                                     -         -       -        A       -       B
5.9 Property Accountability                                                                                            -         -       -        A       -       B
5.10 Air Force Comprehensive Plan                                                                                      -         -       -        A       -       B
5.11 Legal limits                                                                                                      -         -       -        A       -       B
5.12 Mark "As Built " Drawings                                                                                         -         -       -        A       -       B
5.13 Reimbursements procedures                                                                                         -         -       -        A       -       B
5.14 CE-Specific Automated Systems
   (Computer) Capability
5.14.1 Perform inputs                                                                                                  -         -       -        a       -       b
5.14.2 Maintain files                                                                                                  -         -       -        a       -       b
5.14.3 Develop automated reports                                                                                       -         -       -        a       -       b
5.14.4 Extract automated reports                                                                                       -         -       -        a       -       b
5.14.5 Perform automated data analysis                                                                                 -         -       -        -       -       b
5.15 Host Tenant and Interservice                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -       A
   Agreements
5.16 Civil Engineer Civilian Management                                                                                -         -       -        -       -       B
6 AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND
  HEALTH (AFOSH) PROGRAM TR:
  AFIs 91-301, 91-302
6.1 Supervisory Responsibilities                                                                                       -         -       -        B       -        -
6.2 Hazardous Materials Waste Handling                                                                                 A         -       -        B       -        -
6.3 Lead-based Paint (LBP) Hazard TR:                                                                                  A         -       -        B       -        -
   29-CFR 1926.62; Working With Lead-
   based Paint: Facts and Information
   Applicable to Air Force Facilities
6.4 Asbestos awareness                                                                                                 A         -       -        B       -        -
7 PUBLICATIONS TR: AFI 33-360 Vol I
7.1 Military                                                                                                           A         -       -        B       -       -
7.2 Commercial                                                                                                         A         -       -        B       -       -
7.3 Engineering Technical Letters (ETL)                                                                                -         -       -        A       -       B
7.4 National Electric Code (NFPA) 70                                                                                   A         -       -        B       -       -
7.5 State/Local/Host Nation publications                                                                               -         -       -        A       -       -
8 Quality Assurance Evaluator (QAE)
8.1 Contract Administrator/QAE                                                                                         A         -       -        -       -        -



                                                                     34
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L
8.2 Defense Energy Support Center                                                                                      B         -       -        B       -        -
8.3 Air Force Petroleum Office                                                                                         B         -       -        -       -        -
9 COMMUNICATIONS TR: AFI 33-
  106; AFJMAN 24-306
9.1 Use radios                                                                                                         b         -       -        -       -        -
9.2 Use hand signals                                                                                                   b         -       -        -       -        -
9.3 Identify airdrome signals                                                                                          b         -       -        -       -        -
10 AFS SPECIFIC PUBLICATIONS TR:
  T.O.s 0-1-1, 0-1-20, 00-201, 00-5-2, 00-
  20-7, TB MED 577 (0-1-40) UFC 3-460-
  03; UFC 3-460-1, T.O.s 0-01, 0-1-02, 00-
  2-1, 005-2, 00-20-7, 42B-1-1, 37A-1-101,
  00-25-172, AFOSH STD 91-25 National
  Electric Code (NFPA 70) API
  Publications
10.1 Locate numbers and titles of manuals,                                                                             a         -       -        b       -        c
    regulations, technical orders, and forms
10.2 Locate desired information in
10.2.1 Standard publications                                                                                          1a         -       -        b       -        -
10.2.2 Technical publications                                                                                         1a         -       -        b       -        -
10.2.3 Use technical orders                                                                                           2b         -       -        b       -        c
11 AFS SPECIFIC HEALTH and
  SAFETY TR: AFPDs 91-2, 91-3; AFI
  91-302; AFOSH 91-10, 91-25, 91-38, 46-
  137; AFIND 17; CFR (29, 40)
11.1 Hazards of AFSC                                                                                                   A         -       -        B       -        -
11.2 AFOSH Standards for AFSC                                                                                          A         -       -        B       -        -
11.3 Individual responsibilities                                                                                       A         -       -        B       -        -
11.4 Respiratory Protection Program                                                                                    A         -       -        B       -        -
11.5 Applying safety practices when
    working with:
11.5.1 Electrical systems and equipment                                                                               2b         -       -        b       -        -
11.5.2 Lockout Tagout Program                                                                                         A          -       -        B       -        -
11.5.3 Mechanical equipment                                                                                           1a         -       -        b       -        -
11.5.4 Flammables                                                                                                     A          -       -        B       -        -
11.5.5 Chemicals and chemical solutions                                                                               A          -       -        B       -        -
11.5.6 Test equipment                                                                                                 1a         -       -        b       -        -
11.5.7 Mobile working platforms                                                                                        a         -       -        b       -        -
11.5.8 Electrical hand tools                                                                                          1a         -       -        b       -        -
11.5.9 Asbestos                                                                                                        a         -       -        b       -        -
11.5.10 Confined space entries                           *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        c
11.5.11 Laboratory equipment                                                                                          1a         -       -        b       -
11.5.12 Excavations                                                                                                   b          -       -        b       -        c
11.5.13 Shoring                                                                                                       b          -       -        b       -        c
11.6 Remove victim from energized circuit                                                                              a         -       -        b       -        -
11.7 Apply first aid procedures for                                                                                    a         -       -        b       -        -
    electrical shock
11.8 Use warning forms                                                                                                 a         -       -        -       -        -
11.9 Manual lifting awareness                                                                                          A         -       -        -       -        -



                                                                     35
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L
11.10 Environmental concerns                                                                                           A         -       -        -       -        -
11.11 Toxic and explosive gases                                                                                        A         -       -        B       -        -
11.12 Self contained breathing apparatus                                                                               A         -       -        -       -        -
11.13 Initial Federal Hazard                                                                                           A         -       -        -       -        -
   Communication Training Program
   (FHCTP) TR: DoD 6050.5-G-1;
   AFOSH 121-21; AFI 91-302
11.14 Fuel Hazards                                                                                                     A         -       -        B       -        -
12 MAINTENANCE OF TOOLS AND
 EQUIPMENT TR: UFC 3-460-03F, T.O.s
 00-25-172, 33-1-101, 11H5-35-1
12.1 Use common hand tools                                                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
12.2 Care of hand tools                                                                                               A          -       -        -       -        -
12.3 Use of shop equipment                                                                                            A          -       -        -       -        -
12.4 Care of shop equipment                                                                                           A          -       -        -       -        -
12.5 Use specialized hand tools                                                                                       2b         -       -        b       -        -
12.6 Use vapor/oxygen/toxicity indicator                 *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
12.7 Maintain Tools                                                                                                   b          -       -        b       -        -
12.8 Condition tags                                                                                                   A          -       -        B       -        -
12.9 Air Compressor
12.9.1 Inspect                                                                                                        2b         -       -        b       -        -
12.9.2 Operate                                                                                                        2b         -       -        b       -        -
13 PROJECT PLANNING TR: AFIs 32-
 1070; 32-1066; AFMAN 32-7004, UFC
 3-600-02, UFC 03-460-01 ; Uniform
 Plumbing Code (UPC)
13.1 Use building construction plans to
   identify:
13.1.1 Installation procedure                                   **                                                    a          -       -        b       -        -
13.1.2 Materials needed                                                                                               a          -       -        b       -        -
13.1.3 Types of systems                                                                                               a          -       -        b       -        -
13.2 Prepare working sketches                                   **                                                    1a         -       -        b       -        -
13.3 Prepare and use AF Form 103, Work                   *                                                            1a         -       -        b       -        -
   Clearance Request
13.4 Prepare bill of materials request                   *                                                            1a         -       -        b       -        -
13.5 Recurring Work Program (RWP)                               **                                                     -         -       -        b       -        -
   requirements
14 UTILITIES FUNDAMENTALS
TR: UPC; UFC 03-460-01
14.1 Mathematics                                                                                                       A         -       -        B       -       B
14.1.1 Metric system                                                                                                   -         -       -        A       -       B
14.2 Biology                                                                                                           A         -       -        B       -       B
14.3 Chemistry                                                                                                         A         -       -        B       -       B
14.4 Water treatment                                                                                                   A         -       -        B       -       B
14.5 Wastewater treatment
14.5.1 Primary                                                                                                         A         -       -        B       -       B
14.5.2. Secondary                                                                                                      A         -       -        B       -       B
14.6 Pipe Fitting
14.6.1 Measure                                           *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -



                                                                     36
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L
14.6.2 Cut                                               *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
14.6.3 Ream                                              *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
14.6.4 Thread                                            *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
14.6.5 Sweat                                             *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
14.7 Disinfect using chlorine                            *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        b
14.8 Locate components using:
14.8.1 Utility maps                                      *                                                             a         -       -        b       -        -
14.8.2 Electronic equipment                                                                                            a         -       -        -       -        -
15 WATER SYSTEMS TR: AFJMAN 32-
 1072; UPC/ Ken Kerri, Water
 Distribution System Operation and
 Maintenance
15.1 Fundamentals of water distribution                                                                                A         -       -        B       -        -
15.2 Locating distribution components                                                                                  A         -       -        B       -        -
15.3 Operation of water systems
15.3.1 Wells                                                                                                           A         -       -        B       -       -
15.3.2 Booster stations                                                                                                A         -       -        B       -       -
15.3.3 Storage tanks                                                                                                   A         -       -        B       -       -
15.3.4 Chemical feeders                                                                                                A         -       -        B       -       B
15.3.5 Metering equipment                                                                                              A         -       -        B       -       -
15.4 Install water system components
15.4.1 Fire hydrants                                                                                                  b          -       -        b       -        -
15.4.2 Tap water main                                    *                                                            b          -       -        b       -        -
15.4.3 Structural openings                                                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
15.4.4 Steel pipe                                                                                                     2b         -       -        b       -        -
15.4.5 Plastic pipe                                                                                                   2b         -       -        b       -        -
15.4.6 Copper tubing                                                                                                  2b         -       -        b       -        -
15.4.7 Pipe hangers/supports                                                                                          2b         -       -        b       -        -
15.4.8 Compression couplings                                                                                          2b         -       -        b       -        -
15.4.9 Clamps                                                                                                         2b         -       -        b       -        -
15.5 Inspect water system components:
15.5.1 Perform pressure test                                                                                          2b         -       -        b       -        -
15.5.2 Identify causes for pressure loss                                                                              b          -       -        b       -        -
15.5.3 Locate leaks                                                                                                   2b         -       -        b       -        -
15.5.4 Corrosion                                                                                                       a         -       -        a       -        -
15.5.5 Perform area flow test                                                                                         1a         -       -        b       -        -
15.5.6 Fire hydrants                                                                                                  1a         -       -        b       -        -
15.6 Maintain water system components:
15.6.1 Winterize piping system                                                                                        1a         -       -        b       -        -
15.6.2 Thaw frozen water pipes using:
15.6.2.1 Heaters                                                                                                       a         -       -        b       -        -
15.6.2.2 Torches                                                                                                       a         -       -        b       -        -
15.6.2.3 Electrical thawers                                                                                            a         -       -        b       -        -
15.7 Repair water system components:
15.7.1 Piping
15.7.1.1 Interior
15.7.1.1.1 Steel                                         *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
15.7.1.1.2 Plastic                                       *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
15.7.1.1.3 Copper                                        *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -



                                                                     37
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)

1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L

15.7.1.2 Exterior
15.7.1.2.1 Transite                                      *                                                             a         -       -        b       -        -
15.7.1.2.2 Ductile                                       *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
15.7.1.2.3 Plastic                                       *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
15.7.1.2.4 Steel                                         *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
15.7.2 Fire hydrants                                     *                                                            b          -       -        b       -        -
16 SWIMMING POOLS
 FUNDAMENTALS TR: UFC 3-230-02
16.1 Operate                                                                                                           A         -       -        B       -        -
16.2 Maintain                                                                                                          A         -       -        B       -        -
16.3 Repair                                                                                                            A         -       -        B       -        -
17 WASTEWATER SYSTEMS TR:
 AFMANs 32-1070, UFC 3-240-07/08/09;
 UPC; MOP-11
17.1 Fundamentals of collection
17.1.1 Sanitary sewer                                                                                                  A         -       -        B       -       -
17.1.2 Industrial waste                                                                                                A         -       -        B       -       -
17.1.3 Storm drains                                                                                                    A         -       -        B       -       -
17.1.4 Sewage lift stations                                                                                            A         -       -        B       -       B
17.2 Install collection system components
17.2.1 Cast iron pipe                                    *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
17.2.2 Plastic pipe                                      *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
17.3 Establish trench grade                              *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
17.4 Establish pipeline slope                            *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
17.5 Backfill trenches                                   *                                                            b          -       -        b       -        -
17.6 Drain excavations                                   *                                                             a         -       -        b       -        -
17.7 Inspect wastewater systems
17.7.1 Leaks                                                                                                           a         -       -        b       -        -
17.7.2 Infiltration/inflow                                                                                             a         -       -        a       -        -
17.7.3 Manholes                                                                                                       2b         -       -        b       -        -
17.7.4 Grease traps                                                                                                    a         -       -        b       -        c
17.7.5 Oil/water separator                                                                                             a         -       -        b       -        -
17.8 Maintain wastewater systems
17.8.1 Interior wastewater systems
17.8.1.1 Open clogged or restricted
       drainage systems using:
17.8.1.1.1 Plungers                                                                                                   2b         -       -        -       -        -
17.8.1.1.2 Hand augers                                                                                                2b         -       -        b       -        -
17.8.1.1.3 Power augers                                  *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
17.8.1.1.4 Chemicals                                                                                                  b          -       -        b       -        -
17.8.2 Exterior wastewater systems
17.8.2.1 Open clogged or restricted
       drainage systems using:
17.8.2.1.1 Sewer augers                                                                                               2b         -       -        b       -        -
17.8.2.1.2 Commercial sewer jet                                                                                        a         -       -        b       -        -
17.9 Repair wastewater system piping
17.9.1 Interior wastewater systems                                                                                    2b         -       -        b       -        -
17.9.2 Exterior wastewater systems                                                                                    2b         -       -        b       -        -



                                                                     38
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L
18 NATURAL GAS SYSTEMS TR:
 AFMANs 32-7004; AFIs 32-1069, 32-
 1054; UFC 3-430-05; UPC
18.1 System fundamentals                                                                                               A         -       -        B       -        -
18.2 Federal and state regulations                                                                                     -         -       -        B       -        -
18.3 Inspect gas system components and                                                                                 a         -       -        b       -        -
   piping
18.4 Maintain gas system components and                                                                                a         -       -        b       -        -
   piping
18.5 Repair gas system components and                                                                                  a         -       -        b       -        -
   piping
18.6 Locate and isolate leaks                                                                                          a         -       -        b       -        -
19 FIRE SUPPRESSION TR: National
 Fire Protection Association Pamphlets /
 AFJAM 32-1059 / UFC 3-600-02
19.1 Inspect and test fire suppression
   systems
19.1.1 Wet pipe systems                                                                                                a         -       -        b       -        -
19.1.2 Dry pipe systems                                                                                                a         -       -        b       -        -
19.1.3 Deluge systems                                                                                                  a         -       -        b       -        -
19.1.4 Foam systems                                                                                                    a         -       -        b       -        -
19.1.5 Specialized systems                                                                                             a         -       -        b       -        -
19.2 Repair fire suppression systems
19.2.1 Wet pipe systems                                                                                                a         -       -        b       -        -
19.2.2 Dry pipe systems                                                                                                a         -       -        b       -        -
19.2.3 Deluge systems                                                                                                  a         -       -        b       -        -
19.2.4 Foam systems                                                                                                    a         -       -        b       -        -
19.2.5 Specialized systems                                                                                             a         -       -        b       -        -
19.3 Maintain fire suppression systems
19.3.1 Wet pipe systems                                                                                                a         -       -        b       -        -
19.3.2 Dry pipe systems                                                                                                a         -       -        b       -        -
19.3.3 Deluge systems                                                                                                  a         -       -        b       -        -
19.3.4 Foam systems                                                                                                    a         -       -        b       -        -
19.3.5 Specialized systems                                                                                             a         -       -        b       -        -
20 BACKFLOW PREVENTION
 DEVICES TR: AFI32-1066; UPC
20.1 Fundamentals                                                                                                      A         -       -        B       -        -
20.2 Install backflow prevention devices
20.2.1 Air gap                                                                                                        a          -       -        b       -        -
20.2.2 Atmospheric vacuum breakers                                                                                    1a         -       -        b       -        -
20.2.3 Pressure type vacuum breakers                                                                                  1a         -       -        b       -        -
20.2.4 Double check valves                                                                                            1a         -       -        b       -        -
20.2.5 Reduced pressure principle devices                                                                             a          -       -        b       -        -
20.3 Inspect backflow prevention devices
20.3.1 Air gap                                                                                                         a         -       -        b       -        -
20.3.2 Atmospheric vacuum breaker                                                                                      a         -       -        b       -        -
20.3.3 Double check valves                                                                                             a         -       -        b       -        -
20.3.4 Pressure type vacuum breaker                                                                                    a         -       -        b       -        -
20.3.5 Reduced pressure principles devices                                                                             a         -       -        b       -        -



                                                                     39
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L
20.4 Repair backflow prevention devices
20.4.1 Pressure vacuum breakers                                                                                        a         -       -        b       -        -
20.4.2 Air gap                                                                                                         a         -       -        b       -        -
20.4.3 Atmospheric                                                                                                     a         -       -        b       -        -
20.4.4 Double check valves                                                                                             a         -       -        b       -        -
20.4.5 Reduced pressure principles devices                                                                             a         -       -        b       -        -
21 ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS TR: AFI 32-
 1064; T.O. 31-1-141 series
21.1 Electrical fundamentals
21.1.1 Electron Theory                                                                                                 B         -       -        B       -        -
21.1.2 AC circuits                                                                                                     B         -       -        B       -        -
21.1.3 DC circuits                                                                                                     B         -       -        B       -        -
21.1.4 Solid state components                                                                                          B         -       -        B       -        -
21.1.5 Programable logic controller (PLC)                                                                              B         -       -        B       -        -
21.2 Circuit components
21.2.1 Overcurrent protection devices                                                                                 B          -       -        B       -        -
21.2.2 Electromagnetic devices                                                                                        B          -       -        B       -        -
21.2.3 Switches                                                                                                       B          -       -        B       -        -
21.2.4 Transformers                                                                                                   B          -       -        B       -        -
21.3 Interpret schematics: Block, wiring,                *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
   connection, schematic, ladder
21.4 Motors                                                                                                            B         -       -        B       -        -
21.5 Use test equipment to measure:
21.5.1 Voltage                                           *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
21.5.2 Resistance                                        *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
21.5.3 Current                                           *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
21.6 Inspect electrical components/circuits              *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
21.7 Troubleshoot electrical systems                                                                                  2b         -       -        b       -        -
21.8 Replace electrical components                       *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
21.9 Connect and disconnect motors                       *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
21.10 Apply safety precautions                           *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
21.11 Cathodic Protection Systems
21.11.1 Fundamentals                                                                                                   A         -       -        B       -        -
21.11.2 Inspect                                                                                                        b         -       -        b       -        -
21.11.3 Interpret readings                                                                                             b         -       -        b       -        -
22 EQUIPMENT TR: AFIs 32-1066, 32-
 1070; AFMAN 32-7004; UFCs 3-600-02,
 3-430-05; UPC
22.1 Install
22.1.1 Water Heaters                                                                                                  2b         -       -        b       -        -
22.1.2 Industrial food grinders                                                                                       b          -       -        b       -        -
22.1.3 Emergency eye wash/shower                                                                                      b          -       -        b       -        -
22.2 Repair
22.2.1 Water heaters                                                                                                  2b         -       -        b       -        -
22.2.2 Industrial food grinder                                                                                         a         -       -        b       -        -
22.2.3 Emergency eye wash/shower                                                                                      b          -       -        b       -        -




                                                                     40
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L
23 FIXTURES AND RELATED
 COMPONENTS TR: AFMAN, 32-1070,
 32-7004, UFCs; 3-430-05, 4-730-03, 3-
 600-02; UPC
23.1 Perform new Installation
23.1.1 Lavatories                                        *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
23.1.2 Water closets                                     *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
23.1.3 Urinals                                           *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
23.1.4 Showers                                           *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
23.1.5 Industrial sinks                                                                                               b          -       -        b       -        -
23.1.6 Traps                                                                                                          2b         -       -        b       -        -
23.1.7 Faucets                                           *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
23.1.8 Mixing valves                                                                                                  2b         -       -        b       -        -
23.1.9 Flushometers                                      *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
23.1.10 Drinking fountains                                                                                            b          -       -        b       -        -
23.1.11 Water coolers                                                                                                 b          -       -        b       -        -
23.2 Replace
23.2.1 Lavatories                                                                                                      b         -       -        b       -        -
23.2.2 Water closets                                                                                                   b         -       -        b       -        -
23.2.3 Urinals                                                                                                         b         -       -        b       -        -
23.2.4 Industrial sinks                                                                                                b         -       -        b       -        -
23.2.5 Traps                                                                                                           b         -       -        b       -        -
23.2.6 Faucets                                                                                                         b         -       -        b       -        -
23.2.7 Mixing valves                                                                                                   b         -       -        b       -        -
23.2.8 Flushometers                                                                                                    b         -       -        b       -        -
23.2.9 Drinking fountains                                                                                              b         -       -        b       -        -
23.2.10 Water coolers                                                                                                  b         -       -        b       -        -
23.3 Repair
23.3.1 Water closet components                           *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
23.3.2 Traps                                             *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
23.3.3 Faucets                                           *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
23.3.4 Mixing Valves                                     *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
23.3.5 Flushometers                                      *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
23.3.6 Drinking fountains                                                                                              -         -       -        b       -        -
24 VALVES TR: AFMANs 32-1070, 32-
 7004; UFC 4-730-03, 3-430-05, 3-600-02;
 UPC
24.1 Fundamentals of Valves                                                                                            A         -       -        B       -        -
24.2 Install valve boxes                                 *                                                             a         -       -        b       -        -
24.3 Inspect valves
24.3.1 Check                                                                                                           a         -       -        b       -        -
24.3.2 Globe                                                                                                           a         -       -        b       -        -
24.3.3 Gate                                                                                                            a         -       -        b       -        -
24.3.4 Ball                                                                                                            a         -       -        b       -        -
24.3.5 Altitude                                                                                                        a         -       -        b       -        -
24.3.6 Pressure regulating                                                                                             a         -       -        b       -        -
24.3.7 Pressure relief                                                                                                 a         -       -        b       -        -
24.3.8 Quick opening                                                                                                   a         -       -        b       -        -
24.4 Inspect Valve boxes                                                                                               a         -       -        b       -        -



                                                                     41
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L
24.5 Replace valves
24.5.1 Pressure relief                                                                                                a          -       -        b       -        -
24.5.2 Altitude                                                                                                       a          -       -        b       -        -
24.5.3 Check                                             *                                                            1a         -       -        b       -        -
24.5.4 Globe                                             *                                                            1a         -       -        b       -        -
24.5.5 Gate                                              *                                                            1a         -       -        b       -        -
24.5.6 Ball                                              *                                                            1a         -       -        b       -        -
24.5.7 Pressure regulating                                                                                            1a         -       -        b       -        -
24.5.8 Quick opening                                                                                                  1a         -       -        b       -        -
24.6 Repair Valves
24.6.1 Pressure relief                                                                                                a          -       -        b       -        -
24.6.2 Altitude                                                                                                       a          -       -        b       -        -
24.6.3 Check                                             *                                                            1a         -       -        b       -        -
24.6.4 Globe                                                                                                          1a         -       -        b       -        -
24.6.5 Gate                                                                                                           1a         -       -        b       -        -
24.6.6 Ball                                                                                                           1a         -       -        b       -        -
24.6.7 Pressure regulating                                                                                            1a         -       -        b       -        -
24.6.8 Quick opening                                                                                                  1a         -       -        b       -        -
24.7 Maintain Valves
24.7.1 Lubricate                                                                                                      2b         -       -        b       -        -
24.7.2 Packing                                                                                                        2b         -       -        b       -        -
24.7.3 Boxes                                                                                                           a         -       -        -       -        -
25 WATER TESTING TR: UFC 3-230-02;
 Standard Methods for the Examination of
 Water and Wastewater; Ken Kerri; TB-
 Med 577
25.1 Collect samples                                     *                                                            1a         -       -        b       -        b
25.2 Perform water tests:
25.2.1 pH                                                *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -       -
25.2.2 Chlorine residual                                 *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -       b
25.3 Total coliform                                                                                                    -         -       -        -       -       B
25.4 Wastewater Fundamentals
25.4.1 Primary                                                                                                         A         -       -        B       -        -
25.4.2 Secondary                                                                                                       A         -       -        B       -        -
26 PHYSICAL PRINCIPLES TR: UFC 3-
 460-03
26.1 Hydraulics                                                                                                        B         -       -        B       -        -
26.2 Mechanics                                                                                                         B         -       -        B       -        -
26.3 Fuel Characteristics                                                                                              B         -       -        B       -        -
27. FUELS SYSTEMS TR: UFC 3-460-
 03F, UFC 03-460-01, API Publications
27.1 Types                                                                                                            B          -       -        B       -        -
27.2 Interpret mechanical drawings                       *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
27.3 Interpret standard designs                                                                                       b          -       -        b       -        -
27.4 Operational inspect
27.4.1 Type I                                                                                                          a         -       -        b       -        -
27.4.2 Type II                                                                                                        2b         -       -        b       -        -
27.4.3 Types III & IV
27.4.3.1 Modes of Operation                                                                                           2b         -       -        c       -        -



                                                                     42
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L
27.4.3.2 Valve Operation                                                                                              2b         -       -        c       -        -
27.4.3.3 Pantograph station                                                                                           b          -       -        b       -        -
27.5 Inspect Electrical/PLC                                                                                           2b         -       -        c       -        -
27.6 Troubleshoot
27.6.1 Type II                                                                                                        2b         -       -        b       -        -
27.6.2 Type III
27.6.2.1 Mechanical                                                                                                   2b         -       -        b       -        -
27.6.2.2 PLC                                                                                                           -         -       -        b       -        -
27.6.3 Type IV                                                                                                        b          -       -        b       -        -
28 MAINTENANCE OF INSTALLED
 FUEL SYSTEMS TR: UFC 3-460-03F;
 AFOSH STD 127-40; MIL STD 161, 37-
 1-1, 42B-1-1, 37A-1-101, 37A6-7-1, 00-
 25-172; UFC 3-460-01, API Publications
28.1 Tubing
28.1.1 Types                                                                                                          A          -       -        B       -        -
28.1.2 Fittings                                                                                                       A          -       -        B       -        -
28.1.3 Fabricate tubing systems                                                                                       2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.2 Automatic valves
28.2.1 Constructional features                                                                                        B          -       -        B       -        -
28.2.2 Operational characteristics                                                                                    B          -       -        B       -        -
28.2.3 Adjust                                                                                                         2b         -       -        c       -        -
28.2.4 Repair                                            *                                                            2b         -       -        c       -        -
28.2.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                   2b         -       -        c       -        -
28.3 Pumps
28.3.1 Constructional features
28.3.1.1 Standard centrifugal                                                                                         B          -       -        B       -        -
28.3.1.2 Deep Well                                                                                                    B          -       -        B       -        -
28.3.1.3 API 610                                                                                                      B          -       -        B       -        -
28.3.1.4 Self-priming centrifugal                                                                                     B          -       -        B       -        -
28.3.1.5 Positive displacement                                                                                        B          -       -        B       -        -
28.3.1.6 Double diaphragm                                                                                             B          -       -        B       -        -
28.3.2 Operational inspect                               *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.3.3 Adjust/Align                                                                                                   b          -       -        b       -        -
28.3.4 Lubricate bearings                                                                                             b          -       -        b       -        -
28.3.5 Mechanical seals
28.3.5.1 Replace                                                                                                      2b         -       -        c       -        -
28.3.5.2 Adjust                                                                                                        -         -       -        b       -        -
28.3.6 Rebuild pump
28.3.6.1 Standard centrifugal                                                                                         2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.3.6.2 Deep Well                                                                                                    2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.3.6.3 API 610                                                                                                      2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.3.6.4 Self-priming centrifugal                                                                                     2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.3.6.5 Positive displacement                                                                                        2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.3.6.6 Double diaphragm                                                                                             2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.4 Filtration equipment
28.4.1 Constructional Features                                                                                        B          -       -        B       -        -
28.4.2 Replace filter element cartridge                  *                                                            2b         -       -        c       -        -
28.4.3 Repair Filtration equipment                                                                                    b          -       -        b       -        -


                                                                     43
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L
28.4.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                    b         -       -        b       -        -
28.5 Fuel meters
28.5.1 Constructional features                                                                                        B          -       -        B       -        -
28.5.2 Calibrate meters                                  *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.5.3 Use master meter                                  *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.5.4 Repair                                                                                                          -         -       -        a       -        -
28.6 Storage tanks
28.6.1 Constructional features
28.6.1.1 Above ground                                                                                                  B         -       -        B       -        -
28.6.1.2 Below ground                                                                                                  B         -       -        B       -        -
28.6.1.3 Cut and cover                                                                                                 B         -       -        B       -        -
28.6.2 Components
28.6.2.1 Repair                                                                                                        b         -       -        c       -        -
28.6.2.2 Inspect                                                                                                       b         -       -        c       -        -
28.6.2.3 Check leak detection systems                                                                                  b         -       -        c       -        -
28.6.3 Gauging systems
28.6.3.1 Automatic
28.6.3.1.1 Constructional features                                                                                     B         -       -        B       -        -
28.6.3.1.2 Install                                                                                                     b         -       -        b       -        -
28.6.3.1.3 Remove                                                                                                      b         -       -        b       -        -
28.6.3.2 Mechanical
28.6.3.2.1 Constructional features                                                                                     B         -       -        B       -        -
28.6.3.2.2 Repair                                                                                                      b         -       -        b       -        -
28.6.3.2.3 Inspect                                                                                                     b         -       -        b       -        -
28.6.3.2.4 Adjust                                                                                                      b         -       -        c       -        -
28.6.3.3 Manually gauge tank                                                                                           b         -       -        b       -        -
28.6.4 Inspect dikes                                                                                                   b         -       -        b       -        -
28.7 Double Block and Bleed Valve
28.7.1 Constructional features                                                                                        B          -       -        B       -        -
28.7.2 Lubricate                                                                                                      2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.7.3 Repair                                                                                                         2b         -       -        c       -        -
28.8 Loading/off loading equipment
28.8.1 Constructional features                                                                                         B         -       -        B       -        -
28.8.2 Truck Overfill Protection                                                                                       B         -       -        B       -        -
28.8.3 Dry Break Couplers, Single-point
     nozzles, cam-lock coupler, and ground
     product coupler
28.8.3.1 Constructional features                                                                                      A          -       -        B       -        -
28.8.3.2 Repair                                                                                                       2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.8.4 Hoses                                                                                                          A          -       -        B       -        -
28.8.5 Use hydrostatic hose tester                                                                                    b          -       -        b       -        -
28.9 Fuel Piping Systems
28.9.1 Constructional features                                                                                         B         -       -        B       -        -
28.9.2 Perform pressure test
28.9.2.1 Leak test                                                                                                     b         -       -        b       -        -
28.9.2.2 Check leak detection systems                                                                                  b         -       -        c       -        -
28.9.2.3 Annual                                          *                                                             b         -       -        b       -        -
28.9.2.4 Five year                                                                                                     b         -       -        b       -        -
28.10 Gauges


                                                                     44
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L
28.10.1 Constructional features                                                                                       B          -       -        B       -        -
28.10.2 Calibrate                                        *                                                            2b         -       -        c       -        -
28.11 Pressure/flow transmitters
   (PIT/DPT-Type III & IV)
28.11.1 Replace                                                                                                       b          -       -        b       -        -
28.11.2 Calibrate                                                                                                     2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.12 Automotive dispensing system
28.12.1 Troubleshoot dispensing systems                                                                               2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.12.2 Submersible
28.12.2.1 Constructional features                                                                                     A          -       -        B       -        -
28.12.2.2 Inspect                                                                                                     2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.12.2.3 Repair                                                                                                      b          -       -        b       -        -
28.12.2.4 Replace                                                                                                     b          -       -        b       -        -
28.12.3 Self-Contained
28.12.3.1 Constructional features                                                                                     A          -       -        B       -        -
28.12.3.2 Inspect                                                                                                     2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.12.3.3 Repair                                                                                                      b          -       -        b       -        -
28.12.3.4 Replace                                                                                                     b          -       -        b       -        -
28.12.4 VIL Systems                                                                                                   A          -       -        B       -        -
28.12.5 Calibrate meters                                 *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.12.6 Check leak detection systems                                                                                  b          -       -        c       -        -
28.12.7 Compressed natural gas                                                                                        A          -       -        B       -        -
28.13 Hydrant outlets
28.13.1 Constructional features                                                                                       B          -       -        B       -        -
28.13.2 Repair                                                                                                        2b         -       -        b       -        -
28.14 Corrosion Control                                                                                               A          -       -        B       -        -
28.15 Surge Arrestors                                                                                                 A          -       -        B       -        -
28.16 Grounding Principles                                                                                            A          -       -        B       -        -
28.17 Bonding Principles                                                                                              A          -       -        B       -        -
29 TANK/CONFINED SPACE ENTRY
 TR: UFC 3-460-03F; AFOSH STD, 91-
 25, 91-38, 127-45; API Pub 2015 4th Ed
 (Note 3b); NIOSH 38-193, T.O. 11H5-35-
 1
29.1 Safety hazards                                                                                                    B         -       -        B       -        -
29.2 Prepare tanks                                                                                                     b         -       -        b       -        -
29.3 Specialized protective clothing
29.3.1 Inspect                                                                                                         a         -       -        b       -        -
29.3.2 Use                                                                                                             a         -       -        b       -        -
29.3.3 Maintain                                                                                                        a         -       -        b       -        -
29.4 Specialized protective equipment
29.4.1 Inspect                                           *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
29.4.2 Use                                               *                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
29.4.3 Maintain                                          *                                                             a         -       -        b       -        -
29.5 Perform tank inspection                                                                                           a         -       -        b       -        -
29.6 Perform tank cleaning                                                                                             a         -       -        b       -        -
29.7 Return tank to service                                                                                           b          -       -        b       -        -




                                                                     45
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)

1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L
30 DEACTIVATE FUEL SYSTEMS TR:
 UFC 3-460-01, UFC 3-460-03
30.1 Fundamentals
30.1.1 Tanks                                                                                                           -         -       -        B       -        -
30.1.2 Piping                                                                                                          -         -       -        B       -        -
30.1.3 Electrical                                                                                                      -         -       -        B       -        -
30.1.4 Mechanical                                                                                                      -         -       -        B       -        -
31 FUELS ENVIRONMENTAL
 COMPLIANCE TR: STANAG 7102;
 UFC 3-460-03
31.1 Concerns
31.1.1 Governing Authorities                                                                                           A         -       -        A       -        -
31.1.2 Operational                                                                                                     A         -       -        A       -        -
31.2 Disposal
31.2.1 Fuel                                                                                                            A         -       -        B       -        -
31.2.2 Sludge                                                                                                          A         -       -        B       -        -
31.2.3 Solid waste                                                                                                     A         -       -        B       -        -
32 AFSC SPECIFIC CONTINGENCY
 RESPONSIBILITIES TR: AFIs 10-210;
 10- 211; 32-1026; T.O.'s 35E-5-6-1,
 35E4-132-1, 35E4-94-1; Army TMs 10-
 8340-207-14, 10-450-200-12; WMP-1,
 Annex S; (Mar 95); AFPAM 10-219, Vol
 2,3,4, & 5; UFCs; 3-230-15/16/17, 3-230-
 05, 3-260-02, 3-250-07/08/04/03/06
32.1 Expedient repair
32.1.1 Storm drain system repair                                                                                       A         -       -        B       -        -
32.2 Expedient field construction
32.2.1 Latrines TR: AFI 10-210; AFMAN
     34-247, AFPAM 10-219, VOL 5
32.2.1.1 Pit                                                                                                           A         -       -        B       -       -
32.2.1.2 Straddle trench                                                                                               A         -       -        B       -       -
32.2.1.3 VIP                                                                                                           A         -       -        B       -       -
32.2.1.4 Burnout                                                                                                       A         -       -        B       -       -
32.2.1.5 Pail                                                                                                          A         -       -        B       -       -
32.2.1.6 Mound                                                                                                         A         -       -        B       -       -
32.2.2 Grease traps                                                                                                    A         -       -        B       -       B
32.2.3 Waste Water Disposal TR: AFPAM
     10-219, Vol 5; AFIs 10-210, 32-1054,
     32-1066, 32-1067, 32-7041, 48-110,
     36-2238; AFPD 48-1; Army TM 5-
     654
32.2.3.1 Urine soakage pit                                                                                             A         -       -        B       -       -
32.2.3.2 Lagoons                                                                                                       A         -       -        B       -       B
32.2.3.3 Evaporation beds                                                                                              A         -       -        B       -       B
32.2.3.4 Septic tanks                                                                                                  A         -       -        B       -       B
32.2.3.4.1 Leach fields                                                                                                A         -       -        B       -       B
32.2.3.5 Piping                                                                                                        A         -       -        B       -       -
32.2.3.6 Lift stations                                                                                                 A         -       -        B       -       B



                                                                     46
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L
32.2.4 Sanitary Landfill TR: AFIs 41-201,
     32-61, 32-1066, 32-7041; AFPD 48-
     1; AFPAM 10-219, Vol 5
32.2.4.1 Establishment                                                                                                 A         -       -        B       -        -
32.2.4.2 Maintenance                                                                                                   A         -       -        B       -        -
32.3 Expedient beddown methods
32.3.1 Base Expeditionary Airfield
     Resources (BEAR) assets

32.3.1.1 BEAR Water System TR:
       AFPAM 10-219, Vol 5; T.O.'s 00-
       105K-1, 36A11-20-4-3, 37A12-1-
       121; TM5-4320-220-12 & P
32.3.1.1.1 Operation principles                                                                                       B          -       -        B       -       B
32.3.1.1.2 Set up                                                                                                     2b         -       -        b       -       -
32.3.1.1.3 Troubleshooting                                                                                            2b         -       -        b       -       -
32.3.1.1.4 Repairs                                                                                                    2b         -       -        b       -       -
32.3.1.2 Self-Help Laundry TR: T.O.
       50D1-3-1; TM 01243-14/1; AFPAM
       10-219, Vol 5
32.3.1.2.1 Set-up                                                                                                      a         -       -        b       -        -
32.3.1.2.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                a         -       -        b       -        -
32.3.1.2.3 Repair                                                                                                      a         -       -        b       -        -
32.3.2 BEAR assets
32.3.2.1 Expedient Shelter Systems
       Erection TR: T.O. 35E5-6-1;
       AFPAM 10-219, Vol 2 & 5; AFH
       10-222, Vol 1
32.3.2.1.1 Assembly                                                                                                    a         -       -        -       -        -
32.3.2.1.2 Disassembly                                                                                                 b         -       -        -       -        -
32.3.2.2 Provide Electric Kitchen
       Equipment Utility Support TR:
       T.O.'s 35E4-169-1; AFPAM 10-219,
       Vol 2 & 5
32.3.2.2.1 Potable water supply                                                                                        A         -       -        A       -       -
32.3.2.2.2 Waste water disposal                                                                                        A         -       -        B       -       -
32.3.2.2.3 Grease trap requirements                                                                                    A         -       -        B       -       B
32.3.2.3 Portable shower unit & shave
       stand TR: T.O.'s 35E35-4-1, 35E35-
       3-1, 40P1-2-2-1, 40P1-6-2-1; TM's
       10-4510-201-10, 10-4510-206-14;
       AFPAM 10-219, Vol 5
32.3.2.3.1 Set up                                                                                                     2b         -       -        b       -        -
32.3.2.3.2 Perform operational tests                                                                                  2b         -       -        b       -        -
32.3.2.3.3 Service/Periodic maintenance                                                                               2b         -       -        b       -        -
32.3.2.3.4 Troubleshooting                                                                                            2b         -       -        b       -        -
32.3.2.3.5 Repairs                                                                                                    2b         -       -        b       -        -




                                                                     47
                                               2. Core Tasks             3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                       3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                               3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                          Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L
32.3.2.4 Field deployable latrine TR: T.O.
       35E35-5-1; AFPAM 10-219, Vol 2
       &5
32.3.2.4.1 Set up                                                                                                     2b         -       -        b       -        -
32.3.2.4.2 Maintain                                                                                                   2b         -       -        b       -        -
32.3.2.4.3 Disassemble                                                                                                2b         -       -        b       -        -
32.3.2.5 Water purification equipment/
       reverse osmosis water purification
       unit (ROWPU) TR: 40W4-13-41,
       40W4-13-42, 40W4-13-44, 40W4-
       20-1; AFPAM 10-219, Vol 2 & 5
32.3.2.5.1 Set up                                                                                                     2b         -       -        b       -        -
32.3.2.5.2 Operate                                                                                                    2b         -       -        b       -        -
32.3.2.5.3 Maintain                                                                                                   2b         -       -        b       -        -
32.3.3 Medical facilities erection utility                                                                            A          -       -        A       -        -
     support TR: T.O.'s -5-1 & 35E3
     Series; AFPAM 10-219, Vol 3
32.4 Survivability support
32.4.1 Water supply TR: AFMAN 32-
     1019; AFIs 32-1054; 32-1066; 32-
     1067; AFPAM 10-219, Vol 2, 3 & 5;
     Army FM 5-100; TM 5-660
32.4.1.1 Determining alternate water
32.4.1.1.1 Expansion of water facilities                                                                               A         -       -        B       -        -
32.4.1.1.2 Surface water locations                                                                                     A         -       -        B       -        -
32.4.1.2 Shallow well development                                                                                      A         -       -        B       -        -
       (maximum 3 foot depth)
32.4.2 M272 Water Test Kit TR: AFDL                                                                                    A         -       -        A       -        -
     Web Based Training video
32.5 Special purpose vehicles
32.5.1 Sewer cleaning trailer TR: TO                                                                                   A         -       -        B       -        -
     36A11-18-24-1
32.5.2 Sewer vacuum truck                                                                                              A         -       -        B       -        -
32.5.3 Water Distribution Truck                                                                                        -         -       -        A       -        -
32.5.4 Tractor mounted backhoe                                                                                         -         -       -        -       -        -
32.5.5 Dump truck                                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -        -
32.5.6 10K AT loader with fork                                                                                         -         -       -        -       -        -
     attachments
32.6 Contingency planning TR: AFPAM
   10-219 V2, V5
32.6.1 Initial field assessment                                                                                        -         -       -        -       -       B
32.6.2 Sustainment
32.6.2.1 Critical systems back-up                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -       B
32.6.2.2 Develop local operating                                                                                       -         -       -        -       -       b
       instructions
32.6.3 Resource management                                                                                             -         -       -        -       -       B
32.6.4 Water logs                                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -       B
32.6.5 Water storage requirements                                                                                      -         -       -        -       -       B
                                                                                                                       -         -       -        -       -       -



                                                                     48
                                               2. Core Tasks              3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A       B       C         A        B        C        D       E            A                 B                C
                                                                                                                        3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                3 Level 5 Level 7 Level    Tng       Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier   (1)       (2)     (1)      (2)    (1)       (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course     D/L   Course CDC       Course     D/L
32.6.6 Setup Water/Fuel Storage Bladder
     TR: T.O. 39-3-5 series; TM 5-5430-
     200-12 AFPAM 10-209, Vol 5
32.6.6.1 Water bladders                                                                                                 b         -       -        b       -        -
32.6.6.2 Fuel bladders                                                                                                  b         -       -        b       -        -
32.7 POL Distribution System Repair TR:
   AFIs 32-7005; 32-1065; 10-201; 10-
   410; AFPAM 10-209, Vol 2,3,&5;
   AFOSH STDs 48-22; 127-31; MIL STD
   161; T.O.s 37A13-5-1, 37A13-6-1,
   37A13-6-2, 11H5-35-1, 34Y5-4-12-1,
   34Y1-184-21, 32B13-3-8-1, 38G1-112-
   3, 35F5-16-1, 35D26-9-2-1
32.7.1 Invasion pipeline system                                                                                         A         -       -        A       -        -
32.7.2 Rapid Utility Repair Kit (RURK)
32.7.2.1 Concept and Fundamentals                                                                                       A         -       -        A       -        -
32.7.3 Contigency Fuel Recovery System
     (CFRS)
32.7.3.1 Concept and Fundamentals                                                                                       A         -       -        A       -        -
32.8 Fuels Mobility Support Equipment
   (FMSE)
32.8.1 Air Transportable Hydrant                                                                                        A         -       -        B       -        -
     Refueling System (ATHRS/R-14)
32.8.2 FFU-15E                                                                                                          A         -       -        B       -        -
32.8.3 R-22                                                                                                             A         -       -        B       -        -
32.8.4 Additive injector                                                                                                A         -       -        B       -        -
32.8.5 PMU-27                                                                                                           A         -       -        B       -        -
32.9 Fuels Operational Readiness                                                                                        A         -       -        B       -        -
   Capability Equipment (FORCE)

   Note: BLK #4: Columns (1) & (2) can be relabeled to meet CF Requirements; i.e., 2 phase 3 skill level course, 5 lvl QTPs.




                                                                      49
                        CE AFQTP Documentation Record for AFSC 3E4X1

- Download AFQTP's from the following website HQ AFCESA/CEOOF
- Trainers/Certifiers enter their name and initials in the identification block at beginning of the STS
- Upon administering AFQTP’s, enter start date in column 4 of this record
- Upon completion of each unit, document columns 5, 6, and 7
- Upon completion of applicable CerTest, trainer will place the completion date in column 8
- Transcribe by entering current date in columns 5 and 8, Trainees & Trainers Initials in columns 6 & 7


1                           2                               3              4        5          6          7           8




                                                 (5lvl)
                                                            ** 7 Level




                                                                                 Complete




                                                                                                                   Complete
                                                             * 5 Level




                                                                                                       Trainer's



                                                                                                                    CerTest
                                                                                            Trainee
                                                                                            Initials



                                                                                                        Initials
                                                                         Date
                                                                         Start

                                                                                   Date
Task       Task, Knowledge, and Technical
Number               Reference

           AFS SPECIFIC HEALTH and
           SAFETY
           TR: AFPDs 91-2, 91-3; AFI 91-
11
           302; AFOSH 91-10, 91-32, 91-
           38, 46-137; AFIND 17; CFR
           (29, 40)
11.5.9.    Confined space entries                            *
           MAINTENANCE OF TOOLS
           AND EQUIPMENT
12         TR: UFC 3-460-03F, T.O.s 00-
           25-172, 33-1-101, 11H5-35-1
           Use vapor/oxygen/toxicity
12.6.                                                        *
           indicator
           PROJECT PLANNING
           TR: AFIs 32-1070; 32-1066;
13         AFMAN 32-7004, UFC 3-600-
           02, UFC 03-460-01 ; Uniform
           Plumbing Code (UPC)
13.1.1.    Installation procedure                           **
13.2.      Prepare working sketches                         **
           Prepare and use AF Form 103,
13.3.                                                        *
           Work Clearance Request
13.4.      Prepare bill of materials request                 *
           Recurring Work Program (RWP)
13.5.                                                       **
           requirements
           UTILITIES FUNDAMENTALS
14
           TR: UPC; UFC 03-460-01
14.6.1     Measure                                           *
14.6.2     Cut                                               *
14.6.3     Ream                                              *
14.6.4     Thread                                            *
14.6.5      Sweat                                            *
14.7       Disinfect using chlorine                          *
14.8.1.    Utility maps                                      *




                                                            50
1                            2                             3              4        5          6          7           8




                                                (5lvl)
                                                           ** 7 Level




                                                                                Complete




                                                                                                                  Complete
                                                           * 5 Level




                                                                                                      Trainer's



                                                                                                                   CerTest
                                                                                           Trainee
                                                                                           Initials



                                                                                                       Initials
                                                                        Date
                                                                        Start

                                                                                  Date
Task              Task, Knowledge, and
Number             Technical Reference

              WATER SYSTEMS TR:
              AFJMAN 32-1072; UPC/ Ken
15            Kerri, Water Distribution
              System Operation and
              Maintenance
15.4.2.       Tap water main                                *
15.7.1.1.1.   Steel                                         *
15.7.1.1.2.   Plastic                                       *
15.7.1.1.3.   Copper                                        *
15.7.1.2.1.   Transite                                      *
15.7.1.2.2.   Ductile                                       *
15.7.1.2.3.   Plastic                                       *
15.7.1.2.4.   Steel                                         *
15.7.2.       Fire hydrants                                 *
              WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
17            TR: AFMANs 32-1070, UFC
              3-240-07/08/09; UPC; MOP-11
17.2.1.       Cast iron pipe                                *
17.2.2.       Plastic pipe                                  *
17.3.         Establish trench grade                        *
17.4.         Establish pipeline slope                      *
17.5.         Backfill trenches                             *
17.6.         Drain excavations                             *
17.8.1.1.3.   Power augers                                  *
              ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS
21            TR: AFI 32-1064; T.O. 31-1-
              141 series
              Interpret schematics: Block,
21.3.         wiring, connection, schematic,                *
              ladder
21.5.1.       Voltage                                       *
21.5.2.       Resistance                                    *
21.5.3.       Current                                       *
              Inspect electrical
21.6.                                                       *
              components/circuits
21.8.         Replace electrical components                 *
              Connect and disconnect
21.9.                                                       *
              motors
21.10.        Apply safety precautions                      *




                                                           51
                     SECTION B - COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST (COL)
                       (This section used when developing lesson plans)

4. Measurement. Measurement of each objective is indicated as follows:

       4.1. Written Test (W) - used to sample each knowledge objective and the knowledge
       components of performance objectives.

       4.2. Performance Test (P) - used under specified conditions in a formal testing mode to
       measure student accomplishment of performance objectives after the teaching-learning
       activity has been completed.

       4.3. Progress Checks (PC) - administered by the instructor during classroom or
       laboratory instruction time to assess the student‟s accomplishment of knowledge or
       performance objectives.

5. Standard. The standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for performance
measurement are indicated in the objectives and delineated on the individual progress checklist.
Instructor assistance may be provided as stated during the progress check, and students may be
required to repeat all or parts of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.

6. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level which
means the student can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of
the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step procedures for doing
the task.

7. Course Objective List. These objectives are listed in the sequence taught by Block of
Instruction.

7.1. Initial Skills Course. A detailed listing of the initial skills course objectives may be
obtained by written request to 366 TRS/DO, 727 Missile Road, Sheppard AFB TX 76311- 2254.

7.2. 7-Skill Level Course. A detailed listing of the Water and Fuel Systems Maintenance
Craftsman course objectives may be obtained by written request to AFCESA.




                                                52
                          SECTION C - SUPPORT MATERIALS

8. CerTest.

     8.1. Air Force Qualification Training Packages. An instructional package designed for
     trainees to qualify on core or diamond tasks. AFQTPs are the standardized method for
     performing the task. The AFQTP may be printed (paper-based), computer-based, or in
     other audiovisual media. See the AFCESA web pages for up-to-date AFQTPs at: HQ
     AFCESA/CEOOF portal website

     8.2. CerTest

       8.2.1. CerTest, a computer-based evaluation program ensures skilled craftsmen are
       available to meet the Air Force‟s changing needs. It enhances OJT and QT training by
       testing and evaluating an individual's knowledge of the principles and procedures in
       each specialty.

          8.2.1.1. CerTest contains tests used to evaluate task knowledge received through
          different media such as: paper products, videotapes, and computer–based programs.

          8.2.1.2. The CerTest program contains mandatory tests, required for upgrade. All
          diamond () coded tasks on the STS have a corresponding mandatory CerTest.

          8.2.1.3. CerTest is also a powerful training management tool. It can be used to find
          the strengths and weaknesses in an individual's training and experience. CerTest
          automatically records and updates all test results. The training manager can copy
          records to a disk so that an individual can bring current, accurate training
          information to a new unit; thereby helping the gaining supervisor evaluate the
          trainee's knowledge and experience.

     8.3. CerTest also enables unit personnel to develop site-specific tests. These custom-made
     tests standardize testing on tasks unique to a specific duty station and/or assignment. The
     program contains a graphics library that may be used along with a menu-driven test editor
     to develop these site-specific tests.

     8.4. CerTest also contains optional CDC pre-evaluation tools. Volume review exercises
     are available for progress checks after each volume is completed. After all volumes are
     completed in a set, the trainee may take the course review exercise before taking the final
     End of Course exam at the base training office. Commanders are encouraged to integrate
     these tools in their unit‟s OJT program.

     8.5. CerTest is the CE platform for electronic CDC testing. Currently, all CE AFSs are
     allowed to use AFIADL‟s CerTest on installations where Base Test Control Facilities
     (TCFs) are equipped. See your UETM for further information.

8.6. The mandatory AFQTP CerTests are listed in each AFQTP, if required.



                                               53
                        SECTION D - TRAINING COURSE INDEX

9. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty.
Refer to the Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) web site,
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ for complete information on Air Force courses.

10. Air Force In-Residence/Mobile Training Team (MTT) Courses.
Course Number Title Developer
J3AZR3E451 01FA Fire Suppression Systems Maintenance 366 TRS
J3AZR3E451 02RB Reverse Osmosis Water Purification Unit (ROWPU)
J7AZT3E451 03BA Backflow Prevention Devices Testing 366 TRS
J3AZR3E471 00AA Liquid Fuel Storage Tank Entry Supervisor 366 TRS
J3AZR3E471 04AA Liquid Fuels Maintenance Technician 366 TRS (in development)

11. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Courses.
Course Number Title Date
CDC 3E451A Water and Fuel Systems Maintenance Journeyman, available 30 Jun 09
CDC 3E451B Water and Fuel Systems Maintenance Journeyman, available 31 Oct 09

12. Exportable Courses/Information.
Title Date
Common Core 3-level
Common Core 7-level
Water and Fuel Systems Maintenance Craftsman (7-level)

13. Courses Under Development/Revision
Course Number/Course Title Date Due

       13.1 J3AZR3E451 01FB Fire Suppression Systems Maintenance 366 TRS (TBD).

       13.2 J3AZR3E451 02RB Reverse Osmosis Water Purification Unit (ROWPU)

       13.3 J7AZT3E451 03BB Backflow Prevention Devices Testing 366 TRS (TBD).

       13.4 J3AZR3E451 01AB Liquid Fuel Tank Entry Supervisor (TBD).

       13.5 J3AZR3E451 02AA Liquid Fuel Systems Technician (TBD).




                                                54
                  SECTION E – MAJCOM-UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS

14. The Rapid Utility Repair Kit (RURK). The RURK will remain for PACAF use only for
training and contingency operations. Units will document training on the AF Form 797 to satisfy
performance and knowledge levels.




                                              55
                        SECTION F - HOME STATION TRAINING

15. The purpose of this section is to identify the tasks, training references, and training sources
available in support of contingency/wartime training. Prime BEEF forces will train to meet the
full range of tasks expected in the contingency environment. Training ranges from knowledge-
type training conducted in a classroom (Category [CAT] I), to task-oriented hands-on (CAT II)
training conducted in the field. These training requirements, frequencies, and sources are listed
in AFI 10-210, Prime Base Emergency Engineer Force (BEEF) Program.

   15.1. HST Definition. HST is training that is conducted at the individual‟s home station for
   contingency operations. The CE commander ensures training is provided and documented
   and arranges for subject matter experts to conduct training as required. HST requirements
   fall into two categories, CAT I and CAT II.

       15.1.1. CAT I Training. Personnel assigned to base level CE units will receive initial
       and refresher training in all CAT I (knowledge-based) topics identified in AFI 10-210.
       Units will use Demonstration Performance Packages, Qualification Training Packages
       (QTPs), web-based training products, other multimedia training packages, and AF CE
       standardized lesson plans to present the material. MAJCOMs may develop and require
       other training materials to accomplish knowledge-based training.

       15.1.2. CAT-II Training. CAT II training is primarily hands-on training as outlined in
       AFI 10-210. Units must make every effort to incorporate realism into their respective
       CAT II training programs. Field gear (to include primary weapons) will be used during
       training requirements such as, personal/work party security, convoy operations, defensive
       fighting positions, etc.

           15.1.2.1. Combat Skills Training (CST). CST must be institutionalized as an
           integral part of any CAT II HST program. Lessons learned from operations such as
           IRAQI FREEDOM have taught us the importance of maintaining a higher level of
           combat readiness. Although the inclusion of combat skills-focused training into
           HST does not fully prepare CE personnel to work in a high threat combat
           environment, the steps taken to enhance CAT II training will help elevate units to a
           readiness level capable of supporting safe and effective operations in low to medium
           risk combat environments.

           15.1.2.2. Mission Essential Equipment Training (MEETS). Wartime or
           contingency environments often involve the use of specialized and unique mission-
           essential equipment that civil engineers do not use in their day-to-day operations.
           Due to the cost and complexity, mission essential contingency equipment and trainer
           expertise are not commonly found at Continental United States (CONUS)
           installations. Personnel must be hands-on certified and the certification documented
           in their CFEPT. AFI 10-210 identifies minimum personnel to be trained, positions
           by specialty, frequencies and locations of training sites. Inadequate training on these
           key equipment items can negatively affect Air Force contingency operations.



                                                56
   15.1.3. CAT III Training. CAT III is primarily a team training venue. Silver Flag
   Exercise Site training is CAT III training. Silver Flag Exercise Sites are located at
   Tyndall AFB FL; Ramstein AB Germany; and Kadena AB Japan. They conduct CAT
   III training with their major focus on students being able to perform critical contingency
   task in a team environment. The training focuses on bare base beddown and sustainment
   operations using hands-on training with basic expeditionary airfield resources (BEAR)
   equipment in a realistic beddown environment. Where possible, combat skills training
   has been added to the curriculum to ensure realism and help fortify combat skills
   mentality amongst teams. All CE personnel who fill Unit Type Code (UTC) positions
   will receive team training at Silver Flag Exercise Sites with the exception of members
   on headquarters staff augmentation UTCs, pavement evaluation UTCs, and generator
   repair and maintenance UTCs.

15.2. Training References.

   15.2.1. AFI 10-210. AFI 10-210 identifies the Prime BEEF recurring training
   requirements. You can review this document by going to the Air Force publications web
   site.

   15.2.2. AFPAM 10-219 Series. These publications assist in home station training and
   contingency responses.

   15.2.3. AFH 10-222 Series. These publications provide expeditionary engineer
   craftsmen “how to” operating and maintenance procedures.

   15.2.4. AETC Courses. AETC conducts formal contingency training courses on
   subjects such as bare base equipment, air base combat engineering, and readiness
   management.        For course descriptions, refer to the ETCA website:
   https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.

   15.2.5. Web-based Products. Web-based products are available on the CE Virtual
   Learning Center (VLC) website at: https://afcesa.csd.disa.mil/kc/login/login.asp.
   Personnel completing these courses can receive credit for CAT I training. CBT products
   can be used in a classroom setting to train as many personnel as possible. Attendance
   must be documented on a sign-in roster. The sign-in roster must be maintained IAW AFI
   10-210.

   15.2.6. HQ AFCESA/CEX. Maintains a comprehensive listing of training products that
   support the contingency training program.

   15.2.7. Ancillary Training. AFI 36-2201, Volume 1, Training, Development, Delivery,
   and Evaluation, describes ancillary training as guidance or instruction that contributes to
   mission accomplishment. For a full list of mandatory ancillary training requirements go
   to the ETCA website (see paragraph 14.2.4).




                                           57
15.2.8. Deployment Support Training. AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and
Execution, describes deployment support training requirements. Deployment support
training is mandatory training that will aid a unit in preparing to deploy/redeploy.




                                       58
                                         Attachment 1
                              Abbreviations and Terms Explained

Advanced Distributed Learning (ADL). Anytime, anyplace learning within DoD consisting of
instructional modules comprised of sharable content objectives in an Internet/Intranet
environment.

Advanced Training (AT). A formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). An individual on the Air Staff charged with the
responsibility for overseeing all training and career field management aspects of an Air Force
specialty or group of specialties.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard
(AFJQS/CJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular job type or duty position.
Supervisors will use this list to document task qualifications. The tasks on the AFJQS/CJQS are
common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Air Force Qualification Training Package (AFQTP). An instructional package designed for
use at the unit to qualify or aid qualification in a duty position, program, or on a piece of
equipment. AFQTPs identify the Air Force‟s standardized method for performing the task. The
AFQTP may be printed (paper-based), computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Air Force Training Record (AFTR). Web-based relational database used to track personnel‟s
upgrade training requirements. (Formerly known as COVER Train)

Battlefield Airman. Airmen specifically identified as Battlefield Airmen perform tasks to
integrate and synchronize air and space operations in the deep or extended battle space. These
Airmen routinely fight with joint maneuver and SOF units.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A comprehensive, multipurpose
document encapsulating the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It
outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, eliminate duplication, and ensure training is budget defensible.

Certification and Testing (CerTest). A multi-media evaluation program used to test an
individual‟s knowledge of principles and procedures in their career field.

Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS). Commercially-procured training products.

Computer-Based Training (CBT). A self-paced stand-alone computer product used to deliver
interactive subject and task knowledge.




                                                 59
Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
and future duty assignments.

Core Task. A task Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFMs) identified as a minimum
qualification requirement within an Air Force specialty or duty position. These tasks exemplify
the essence of the career field.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication derived from initial/advanced skills course
training standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards
provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to
assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201v1, Air Force Training
Program, Training Development, Delivery and Evaluation.

Critical Task. Tasks that have been identified by the work center supervisor as having a
detrimental effect on mission accomplishment if not performed correctly. Critical tasks may or
may not be the same as core tasks but are mandatory if identified as „critical‟ to the individual‟s
position by the supervisor or work center.

Diamond Task (). Diamond tasks are extremely important to the career field. Diamond tasks
are the same as core tasks with one exception--equipment shortfalls at most locations have
created problems with the actual hands-on certification of these tasks. In instances where
required equipment is not available for instruction, completion of the task‟s AFQTP and passing
the corresponding CerTest is all that is required for upgrade and qualification training. Hands-on
certification should be accomplished at the first opportunity when equipment is available.

Distance Learning (DL). Formal courses that a training wing or a contractor develops for
export to a field location (in lieu of resident training) for trainees to complete without the on-site
support of formal school instructor. Some of the means employed to deliver DL are Video
Teleseminar (VTS), Video Teletraining (VTT), and Computer-Based Training (CBT). Distance
Learning courses are offered by the Air Force Institute of Technology, Air University, and
Training Detachment.

Duty Position Task. The tasks assigned to an individual for the position currently held. These
include as a minimum all core tasks, critical tasks, and any other tasks assigned by the
supervisor.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer-assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training (Type 4 and Type 7). Special or regular on-site training conducted
by a Field Training Detachment (FTD) (Type 4) or by a Mobile Training Team (MTT) (Type 7).




                                                  60
Initial Skills Training. AFS-specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air
Force or upon retraining into a 3-level awarding specialty. Normally, AETC conducts this
training at one of their technical training wings.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate, orderly, and flexible process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures a cost-
efficient approach is employed to teach personnel the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential
for successful job performance.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill-level award) and job qualification (duty position certification)
training.

Optimal Training. The ideal combination of training settings resulting in the highest levels of
proficiency on specified performance requirements within the minimum time possible.

Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence, exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training provided to increase personnel skills and knowledge beyond the
minimum required for upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
individual in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel on-the-job training
program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the
performance skills required to do the job.

Readiness Training Package (RTP). Establishes standard levels of knowledge and proficiency
for common Disaster Preparedness and Readiness subject areas by providing instructors with
training references, materials, and lesson objectives used in teaching and evaluating the course
subject matter.

Representative Sites. Typical organizational units having similar missions, weapon systems or
equipment, or a set of jobs, used as a basis for estimating average training capacities and costs.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or
equipment that precludes desired training from being delivered.

Skills Training. A formal course resulting in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-
job) to qualify and provide Airmen skill level upgrade.




                                                61
Specialty Training Standard (STS). Describes skills and knowledge that Airmen in a
particular AFS need on the job. Additionally, the STS illustrates AFS overall training
requirements for both resident and nonresident courses. It further serves as a contract between
the Air Education and Training Command (AETC) and the end user.
Spin-up Training (SUT). Training required just prior to select deployment. This training
delivers the necessary tools for mission accomplishment. Typically, it is predicated on hard to
attain contingency skills.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results; a fixed quantity
or quality.

Supplemental Training. Training for a portion of an AFS without a change in AFSC. Formal
training on new equipment, methods, and technology that are not suited for on-the-job training.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active duty, Reserve, Guard, and civilian
elements) of the United States Air Force.

Training Capacity. The capability of a training setting to provide training on specified
requirements, based on the availability of resources.

Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW; however,
TPTs are more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues is greater
than is normal in the U&TW forum.

Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be
included in the training decision process.

Upgrade Training (UGT). Identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements
and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum comprised of the AFCFM, MAJCOM
Functional Managers (MFMs), Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel
that determines career ladder training requirements.




                                                  62
