DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                              CFETP 3D0X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                  Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                             1 September 2014




                              AFSC 3D0X1

             KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT




               CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                 AND TRAINING PLAN


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing Web site at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                           CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                   KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT
                                          AFSC 3D0X1
                                                            Table of Contents
PART I
Preface..............................................................................................................................................4
Abbreviations/Terms Explained ......................................................................................................5
Section A - General Information ...................................................................................................12
Purpose of the CFETP
Usage
Coordination and Approval of the CFETP
Section B - Career Field Progression and Information .................................................................14
Specialty Description and Key Positions
Skill and Career Progression
Training Decisions
Community College of the Air Force
Career Field Path
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements ............................................................................21
Purpose
Specialty Qualification Requirements
Section D - Resource Constraints ..................................................................................................23
Purpose
Apprentice (3-Level) Training
Journeyman (5-Level) Training
Craftsman (7-Level) Training
Superintendent (9-Level) Training
Section E - Transition Training Guide ..........................................................................................23




                                                                          2
PART II
Section A - Specialty Training Standard .......................................................................................24
Implementation
Purpose
Third-Party Certification
Training Records for Senior NCOs
Recommendations
Section B - Course Objective List .................................................................................................40
Measurement
Standard
Proficiency Level
Section C - Support Materials .......................................................................................................40
List of Support Materials
Section D - Training Course Index ................................................................................................40
Purpose
Air Force In-Residence Courses
Air University/A4L Courses
Exportable Courses
Section E – MAJCOM-Unique Requirements ..............................................................................40




OPR: 336 TRS/TRR
Certified by: CMSgt Robert Jackson, AF Career Field Manager (SAF/CIO A6CF)
Supersedes: CFETP 3D0X1, dated 12 March 2012, w/Change 1 dated 1 July 2013
Pages: 40




                                                                  3
                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                      KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT SPECIALTY
                                  AFSC 3D0X1
PART I
Preface
1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP ensures
individuals in this specialty receive effective and efficient training at appropriate points in their
career. It provides a clear career path to success and instills rigor in all aspects of career field
training. NOTE: Civilians and military filling associated positions may use Part II to support
duty position qualification training.
2. IMPORTANT: This CFETP is not a stand-alone document. It must be used in conjunction
with the 3DXXX Cyberspace Support (Common Core) CFETP, which outlines tasks and courses
shared by other 3D specialties. Together, the 3DXXX and 3D0X1 CFETPs provide
comprehensive career field guidance and training for members of the AFSC 3D0X1.
3. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors plan, manage, and control training within the
specialty using both parts of the plan.
3.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how to use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression information, duties
and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C associates each level
with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, experience, training, and other). Section D
indicates resource constraints (i.e. funds, manpower, equipment, facilities). Section E identifies
transition training plans for the 3D0X1 career field.
3.2. Part II includes specific training standards and resources. Section A identifies the Specialty
Training Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, and technical references to support training.
Air Education and Training Command (AETC) conducts training, core task and correspondence
course requirements. Section B lists course standards and proficiency levels. Section C
identifies available support materials. Section D identifies a training course index supervisors
can use to determine resources available to support training, including both mandatory and
optional courses. Section E identifies Major Command (MAJCOM) unique training
requirements to determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs.
Supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate
with the overall goals of this plan.
4. Use of the guidance provided in this CFETP provides the foundation for effective and
efficient training for individuals in this career field at the appropriate points in their careers. This
plan enables the Air Force to train today's workforce for tomorrow's jobs.




                                                   4
                              Abbreviations/Terms Explained
This section provides a common understanding of the terms that apply to the Knowledge
Management Career Field and Education Training Plan.
Advanced Training (AT). A formal course of training that leads to a technical or supervisory
level of an AFS. Training is for selected Airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.
Air Education Training Command (AETC). Responsible for the recruiting, training and
education of Air Force personnel. AETC also provides pre-commissioning, professional military
and continuing education.
Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Representative appointed by the respective HQ
USAF Deputy Chief of Staff or Under Secretariat to ensure that assigned Air Force specialties
are trained and utilized to support Air Force mission requirements.
Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD). The official directory for all military
enlisted classification descriptions, codes, and identifiers establishes the occupational structure of
the Air Force enlisted force. The occupational structure is flexible to permit enlisted personnel
to specialize and develop their skills and abilities while allowing the Air Force to meet changing
mission requirements. Individual enlisted personnel have a joint responsibility with commanders
and supervisors at all levels to fully develop their abilities consistent with Air Force needs and
within the established patterns of specialization.
Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualification.
The tasks on AFJQSs are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.
Air Force Qualification Training Package (AFQTP). An instructional course designed for
use at the unit to qualify or aid qualification in a duty position, program, or on a piece of
equipment. It may be printed, computer-based, or other audiovisual media.
Air Force Specialty (AFS). A group of positions (with the same title and code) that require
common qualifications.
Air University Associate-to-Baccalaureate Cooperative (AU ABC). Allows Airmen to turn a
Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree into a Bachelor’s Degree from an
accredited university. The ABC program has established a partnership with various civilian
higher-education institutions to offer four-year degree opportunities via distance learning. The
participating schools will accept all of the credits earned by Airmen who have attained a CCAF
degree and apply them to a Bachelor’s degree related to their Air Force specialty.
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive core
training document that identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give
personnel a clear path and instill a sense of industry in career field training. CFETPs are
officially posted at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.
Certifying Official. A person assigned by the commander to determine an individual’s ability to
perform a task to required standards.



                                                  5
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) Code. A code use to identify all chief master sergeant
positions in the Enlisted Classification Structure. They also identify chief master sergeants who,
through extensive experience and training, have demonstrated managerial ability to plan, direct,
coordinate, implement, and control a wide range of work activity. Some managerial duties and
responsibilities that are common to all chief enlisted managers are: managing and directing
personnel resource activities; interpreting and enforcing policy and applicable directives;
establishing control procedures to meet work goals and standards; recommending or initiating
actions to improve functional operation efficiency; planning and programming work
commitments and schedules; developing plans regarding facilities, supplies, and equipment
procurement and maintenance.
Cloud Computing. The use of computing resources (hardware and software) that are delivered
as a service over a network (typically the Internet).
Collaboration. Collaboration is the interaction among two or more individuals encompassing a
variety of behaviors, including communication, information sharing, coordination, cooperation,
problem-solving and negotiation.
Collaborative Tools. Collaborative tools consist of various web-based technologies including
advanced white boarding, groupware, and facilitation. Collaborative capabilities assist
significantly with managing information throughout its life cycle and enable Air Force members
to perform most office-oriented and operational communication tasks from their desktops.
Computer Based Training (CBT). A training method in which students learn through a
computer terminal or similar device; emphasizes effective and efficient delivery of training
objectives by allowing students to train from virtually any location and control the pace and
length of training.
Content Management. A set of processes and technologies supporting the evolutionary life
cycle of digital information. This digital information is often referred to as content or, to be
precise, digital content. Digital content may take the form of text, such as documents,
multimedia files, such as audio or video files, or any other file type that follows a content life
cycle that requires management.
Continuation Training. Additional advanced training that exceeds the minimum upgrade
training requirements and emphasizes present or future duty assignments.
Core Task. A task identified as a minimum qualification requirement for every member within
an AFSC, regardless of duty position. Core task may be specified for a particular skill level or in
general across the AFSC.
Course Objective List (COL). A publication derived from initial/advanced skills Course
Training Standard (CTS), identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements and respective
standards provided to achieve a 3-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to
assist in conducting graduate evaluations.
Course Training Standard (CTS). A standard developed for all courses not governed by an
STS, including specialized training packages and computer-based training courses.
Critical Tasks. Tasks that require specific training and certification above and beyond other
tasks. Tasks may be defined as critical either through publication, higher headquarters, or at any
level in the organization.


                                                  6
Cross Utilization Training. Training on-non duty AFSC specific tasks.
Cyberspace. A global domain within the information environment consisting of the
interdependent network of information technology infrastructures, including the Internet,
telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded processors and controllers.
Data Management. The process of planning, coordinating, sharing, and controlling
organizations’ data resources (AFPD 33-3, Information Management).
Direct Reporting Unit (DRU). Air Force subdivisions directly subordinate to the CSAF. A
DRU performs a mission that does not fit into any of the MAJCOMs. A DRU has many of the
same administrative and organizational responsibilities as a MAJCOM (Example of a DRU:
USAF Academy).
Document Management. The process of managing documents through their life cycle; from
inception through creation, review, storage, dissemination, and archival or deletion. Document
management can also be a database system to organize stored documents, or a search mechanism
to quickly find specific documents. (AFPD 33-3, Information Management)
Duty Position Tasks. Tasks assigned to an individual for the position currently held. These
include, as a minimum, all core tasks that correspond to the duty position as directed by the
AFCFM or MFM, and tasks assigned by the supervisor.
Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA). A reference website listing courses
conducted or administered by the Air Force, and includes specific MAJCOM procedures, fund
cite instructions, reporting instructions, and listings for those formal courses the MAJCOMs or
FOAs conduct or manage. Located at https://etca.randolph.af.mil.
Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.
Enterprise. The entire range of communications/networking within garrison and tactical realms
to include voice, video, data, imagery and sensor.
Enterprise Information Management (EIM). Encompasses a set of strategies for
organizational management of all aspects of enterprise data as information assets. The proper
models, data architecture, application architecture, and integration vision enables using the
“enterprise information asset” for strategic analysis, customer-centricity, performance and
productivity analytics, and personalization, eventually providing a means for transitioning from
an operational, line-of-business oriented application environment to an intelligent, learning, and
agile organization.
Enterprise Information System (EIS). A portfolio of services that bring about Enterprise
Information Management (EIM) capabilities.
Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.
Field Operating Agency (FOA). FOAs are subdivisions of the Air Force directly subordinate
to a headquarters US Air Force functional manager. A FOA performs field activities beyond the
scope of any of the MAJCOMs. The activities are specialized or associated with an Air Force-
wide mission (Example of a FOA: is the Air Force Weather Agency).




                                                 7
Functional Area Manager (FAM). The individual accountable for the management and
oversight of all personnel and equipment within a specific functional area to support the
operational planning and execution. Responsibilities include, but are not limited to, developing
and reviewing policy; developing, managing, and maintaining Unit Type Codes (UTC);
developing criteria for and monitoring readiness reporting; force posturing; and analysis. At
each level of responsibility (Headquarters Air Force, MAJCOM, Air Component, FOA, DRU,
and Unit), the FAM should be the most highly knowledgeable and experienced person within the
functional area and have the widest range of visibility over the functional area readiness and
capability issues.
Functional Manager (FM). An individual assigned collateral responsibility for training,
classification, utilization, and career development of enlisted personnel. AFSC Functional
Managers exist at MAJCOM, NAF and base level. (AFI 33-101, Commanders Guidance and
Responsibilities)
Go/No-Go. The “Go” is the stage at which a trainee has gained enough skill, knowledge, and
experience to perform the tasks without supervision, meeting the task standard. “No-Go” is the
stage at which the trainee has not gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform
task without supervision, does not meet task standard.
Individual Training Plan (ITP). Use Training Business Area (TBA) to document training.
TBA reflects past and current qualifications, and is used to determine training requirements. It is
intended to be a complete history of past training and current qualifications. Supervisors will
ensure all documentation is accurate and comprehensive.
Information Life Cycle. Typically characterized as creation or collection, processing,
dissemination, use, storage, protection, and disposition. (DoDD 8000.01, Management of the
Department of Defense Information Enterprise).
Information Management (IM). The planning, budgeting, manipulating, and controlling of
information throughout its life cycle. Joint Publication 3-0, Joint Operations, further defines IM
as the function of managing an organization’s information resources by the handling of
knowledge acquired by one or many different individuals and organizations in a way that
optimizes access by all who have a share in that knowledge or a right to that knowledge.
Information Resources Management (IRM). The process of managing information resources
to accomplish agency missions and to improve agency performance (e.g., the reduction of
information collection burdens on the public). (AFPD 33-1, Information Resources
Management)
Information Systems (IS). Set of information resources organized for the collection, storage,
processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, disposition, display, or transmission of
information. (DoD 8500.2)
Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level award for
enlisted or mandatory upgrade training to qualified officers. (AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training
program)
Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly (but flexible) process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel
are taught in a cost efficient way to become educated on the knowledge, skills, and abilities
essential for successful job performance.


                                                 8
Knowledge. Information from multiple domains that has been synthesized, through inference or
deduction, into meaning or understanding that was not previously known. This includes:
explicit knowledge, which can be easily articulated, codified, and stored; and tacit knowledge,
which is based on personal experience, expertise, and judgment. Tacit knowledge is more
challenging to capture and share than explicit knowledge.
Knowledge Management (KM). Handling, directing, governing, or controlling of natural
knowledge processes within an organization in order to achieve the goals and objectives of the
organization.
Knowledge Operations (KO). Application and adaptation of Knowledge Management (KM)
into daily AF operations to enable information/decision superiority. KO leverages the
interaction of people, processes, and EIS technologies to capture, store, organize, share, and
control tacit and explicit knowledge, ensuring all mission execution processes have access to
relevant cross-functional information in a collaborative, timely, and contextual manner.
Knowledge Training. Training used to provide a base of knowledge for task performance. It
may also be used in lieu of task performance when the training capability does not exist.
Learning gained through knowledge rather than hands-on experience. (AFI 36-2201, Air Force
Training program)
Major Command (MAJCOM). A MAJCOM represents a major Air Force subdivision having
a specific portion of the Air Force mission. Each MAJCOM is directly subordinate to HQ
USAF. MAJCOMs are interrelated and complementary, providing offensive, defensive, and
support elements.
Master Task Listing (MTL). A comprehensive list of all tasks performed within a work center
and consisting of the current CFETP or AFJQS and locally developed AF Forms 797 (as a
minimum). Should include tasks required for deployment and/or UTC requirements.
Master Training Plan (MTP). A comprehensive strategy for ensuring completion of all work
center job requirements. The MTP includes a Master Task Listing and provides specific
milestones for task, CDC completion, and prioritizes deployment/UTC, home station training
tasks, upgrade, and duty qualification tasks.
Metadata. Describes data about data; divided into two types: structural and descriptive.
Structural metadata is about the design and specification of data structures. Descriptive metadata
is about individual instances of application data, the data content.
MilSuite. A collection of online tools and applications originally produced within the Program
Executive Office Command, Control and Communications-Tactical (PEO C3T) MilTech
Solutions office for the purpose of bringing online collaborative methods and secure
communities to the entire Department of Defense.
Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFSC. Surveys are conducted by the
Air Force Occupational Measurement Squadron (http://oa.aetc.af.mil/).
On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position) training.
Personally Identifiable Information (PII). Information about an individual that identifies,
links, relates, or is unique to, or describes him or her, e.g., SSN; age; military rank; civilian


                                                  9
grade; marital status; race; salary; home/office phone numbers; other demographic, biometric,
personnel, medical, and financial information, etc.
Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade.
Qualification Training. Hands-on, task performance based training designed to qualify Airmen
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process and is designed to provide skills training required to do the job.
Records Management. The planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting,
and other managerial activities involved in records creation, maintenance and use, and
disposition in order to achieve adequate and proper documentation of the policies and
transactions of the Federal Government and effective and economical management of agency
operations. (AFPD 33-3, Information Management)
Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies (such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment) that preclude desired training from being delivered.
Skill Progression Training. Training toward a portion of an AFS without a change in AFSC. It
is formal training on equipment, methods, and technology that are not suited for OJT and not
included in AFS upgrade training.
Specialty Training Requirements Team (STRT). A meeting chaired by the AFCFM with
MAJCOM FMs, AETC Training Managers, Subject Matter Experts (SME) and HQ AETC
Occupational Analysis Division (OAD) in attendance. Typically held three months prior to a
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) to finalize any CFETP changes or enlisted
classification directory descriptions.
Specialty Training Standard (STS). A publication that describes an Air Force specialty in
terms of tasks and knowledge that an Airman may perform or to know on the job. Also
identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill level within an enlisted AFS. It
further serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall
training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools and correspondence courses.
Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. It is a fixed
quantity or quality.
Training Business Area (TBA). A web-based system used provide global, real-time visibility
into the technical qualifications, certifications and training status of logistics, communications
and information professionals Air Force wide. TBA supports base, wing and work center level
training management activities by automating training management business processes.
Unit Type Code (UTC). A five-character alphanumeric designator that uniquely identifies each
type unit in the Armed Forces in support of deployment planning and execution.
Upgrade Training. Mandatory training which leads to attainment of a higher level of
proficiency.




                                                 10
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum, co-chaired by the AFCFM and the
Training Pipeline Manager, consisting of MAJCOM Functional Managers, Subject Matter
Experts (SME), and AETC training personnel that determines career training requirements.
Wartime Tasks. Those tasks taught when courses are accelerated in a wartime environment. In
response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3-level course in a streamlined
training environment.




                                               11
Section A – General Information
1. Purpose. This CFETP, when used in conjunction with the 3DXXX Cyberspace Support
CFETP, provides the information necessary for the AFCFM, MAJCOM Functional Managers
(MFM), commanders, training managers, supervisors and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and
conduct an effective and efficient career field training program. The plan outlines the training
that individuals in this AFS should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their
career. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced and proficiency
training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into
the AF or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. This training is
provided by Air Education and Training Command (AETC) at various locations. Upgrade
training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, Career Development
Course (CDC) completion and correspondence courses required for award of the 5-, 7-, or 9-skill
level. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge
required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected airmen.
Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes, some of which
are:
1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, develop, manage, and conduct a career field training
program. Also, ensures that established training is provided at the appropriate point in an
individual's career.
1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends training throughout each phase of an individual's career.
1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of the training, and
provides the training medium.
1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact implementation of the desired career field
training program.
2. Use of the CFETP. The CFETP is maintained by the 3D0X1 AFCFM, SAF A6CF.
MAJCOM FMs and AETC review the plan annually to ensure currency and accuracy and
forward recommended changes to the AFCFM. Using the list of courses in Part II, they
determine whether duplicate training exists and take steps to eliminate/prevent duplicate efforts.
Career field training managers at all levels use the plan to ensure a comprehensive and cohesive
training program is available for each individual in the career ladder.
2.1. AETC training personnel develop/revise formal resident and exportable training based upon
requirements established by the users and documented in the STS. They also develop
procurement and acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified
training.
2.2. MAJCOM FMs ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial
skill and upgrade requirements. They also identify the needed AFJQSs/AFQTPs to document
unique upgrade and continuation training requirements. Requirements are satisfied through OJT,



                                                  12
resident training, contract training, or exportable courseware/courses. MAJCOM developed
training to support this AFSC must be included into this plan.
2.3. 81 TRSS/TSQ Qualification Training Flight (Q-Flight) personnel develop training packages
(AFJQSs/AFQTPs) based on requests submitted by the MAJCOMs and according to the
priorities assigned by the AFCFM.
2.4. Unit level training managers and supervisors manage and control progression through the
career field by ensuring individuals complete the mandatory training requirements for upgrade
specified in this plan and supplemented by their MAJCOM. The list of courses in Part II is used
as a reference for planning continuation or career enhancement training.
2.5. Submit recommended CFETP corrections to the 81 TRSS Q-Flight Customer Service Desk
at 81 TRSS/TSQS, 601 D Street, Keesler AFB MS 39534-2235 or call DSN 597-3343. To
contact electronically send email to: qflight.customer.service@us.af.mil.
2.6. Submit recommended CFETP additions/deletions through your MAJCOM Functional
Manager.
3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority.
MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel coordinate on the career field training
requirements. The AETC training manager initiates an annual review of this document by
AETC and MAJCOM functional managers to ensure the CFETP’s currency and accuracy by
using the list of courses in Part II to eliminate duplicate training.




                                              13
Section B – Career Field Progression and Information
4. Specialty Description and Key Positions.
4.1. Specialty Summary. Develop, govern, and monitor processes, technologies, and practices
that support organizations to identify, capture, organize, and employ information in both fixed
and deployed environments. These information assets comprise of raw data, documents,
practices, policies, and individual expertise. Core competencies of Knowledge Managers
include: professional networking, social collaboration, Communities of Practice (CoP),
enterprise information systems technology, business continuity, cross-functional data sharing,
and process-improvement.
4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.
4.2.1. Manages the overall process for organizations to plan, coordinate, manage, share, and
control information. Identifies and analyzes data, information, and knowledge requirements to
facilitate discovery and dissemination of decision-quality information. Leverages the interaction
of people, processes, and enterprise technologies to capture, store, organize, share, and control
tacit and explicit knowledge. Leverages continuous process improvement techniques to improve
mission and business processes, enhancing access to relevant cross-functional information in a
collaborative, timely, and contextual manner. Promotes organizational information as a reusable,
shared, protected, consistent, and compliant resource. Manages and enforces use of metadata,
enabling data to be accessed, tagged, and searched regardless of physical location, media, source,
owner, or other defining characteristics. Assists and educates users on authoritative data sources,
data services, and presentation tools to meet organizational objectives.
4.2.2. Assists organizations with meeting statutory records management requirements, to include
training, policies, and technologies used to identify, organize, protect, share, archive, and dispose
of official government records. Operates and manages records information management systems
and records staging facilities for long-term and permanent records. Provides assistance and
training with Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, and Civil Liberties programs.
4.2.3. Manages, supervises, and performs planning and implementation activities. Manages
implementation and project installation and ensures architecture, configuration, and integration
conformity. Develops, plans, and integrates base communications systems. Serves as advisor at
meetings for facility design, military construction programs and minor construction planning.
Evaluates base comprehensive plan and civil engineering projects. Monitors status of base civil
engineer work requests. Performs mission review with customers. Controls, manages, and
monitors project milestones and funding from inception to completion. Determines adequacy
and correctness of project packages and amendments. Monitors project status and completion
actions. Manages and maintains system installation records, files, and indexes. Evaluates
contracts, wartime, support, contingency and exercise plans to determine impact on manpower,
equipment, and systems.
4.3. MAJCOM 3D0X1 Functional Manager (MFM). Advises the MAJCOM/A6 and staff on
3D0X1 utilization and training issues. Serves as the MAJCOM representative during the career
field Specialty Training Requirements Team (STRT) meetings. Assists in gathering inputs and
data to complete enlisted grade allocation for Career Progression Group (CPG) reviews.
Provides guidance to subordinate units on 3D0X1 personnel issues. Assists with the
dissemination of information regarding Air Force and career field policies, plans, programs, and



                                                 14
procedures to subordinate units. Assists in identifying qualified subject matter experts to help
with the development of Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT) and the Career Development Course
(CDC). Acts as the primary MAJCOM reviewer on CDC training and classification waiver
request packages. Coordinates on all MAJCOM 3D0X1 staffing and manpower issues.
4.4. Air Force 3D0X1 Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Appointed by the Air Force Chief
of Warfighting Integration and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6). Advisor to the
SAF/CIO A6 on all matters affecting the Knowledge Management career field. Communicates
directly with MFMs and AETC Training Managers to disseminate Air Force and career field
policies and program requirements. Ensures development, implementation, and maintenance of
the CFETP. Serves as the chairperson for the career field Specialty Training Requirements
Team meetings and uses it as a forum to determine and manage career field education and
training requirements as they apply to mission needs. Possesses final authority to waive CFETP
requirements, including CDCs. Assists AETC training managers and course supervisors with
planning, developing, implementing, and maintaining all AFSC-specific training courses.
Assists in the development of AFSC-related manpower standards.
5. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the
apprentice to the superintendent level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to
accomplish its mission. Everyone involved in training must do their part to plan, manage, and
conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this CFETP will ensure each
individual receives viable training at appropriate levels in their career. The training listed in this
plan is specific to the AFSC 3D0X1 and must be used in conjunction with the common core
training identified in the 3DXXX CFETP.
5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. The Knowledge Management training course (E3ABR3D0X1
00AB) serves as the initial skills course and must be completed for the award of AFSC 3D031.
Until this course is available, the Knowledge Operations Management apprentice course
(E3ABR3D031 00AA) may be used.
5.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Upgrade training consists of: (1) completing Knowledge
Management CDC 3D051; (2) completing all core tasks identified for 5-level; (3) completing all
computer-based training (CBT) courses identified in the 3D051 Training Track; (4) completing
all 5-level requirements outlined in the 3DXXX Cyberspace Support CFETP; (5) meeting time-
in-training requirements IAW AFI 36-2201; and (6) obtaining supervisor recommendation and
commander approval for the award of AFSC 3D051.
5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. Upgrade training consists of: (1) completing all core tasks identified
for 7-level; (2) completing all computer-based training (CBT) courses identified in the 3D071
Training Track; (3) completing all 7-level requirements outlined in the 3DXXX Cyberspace
Support CFETP; (4) meeting time-in-training requirements as identified in AFI 36-2201; and (5)
obtaining supervisor recommendation and commander approval for the award of AFSC 3D071.
5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. 3D090 skill level requirements are listed in the 3DXXX
Cyberspace Support (Common Core) CFETP.
6. Training Decisions. On 8 May 2013, the SAF/CIO A6 authorized the creation of the 3A1X1
AFSC to provide administrative support to commanders and directors at all levels. This decision
also allowed for significant revision of the 3D0X1 AFSC to focus on knowledge management
core competencies. Following this decision, the 3D0XX AFCFM hosted a U&TW on 15-22



                                                  15
May 2013 to determine the training framework and other career field requirements for both
3D0X1 and 3A1X1 AFSCs. Following the decisions made during the U&TW, this CFETP was
developed to encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the revised 3D0X1
career field.
7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon
completion of basic military training and assignment to an Air Force career field. CCAF
provides the opportunity for all enlisted members to obtain an Associate of Applied Science
(AAS) degree. Refer to the Air Force Virtual Education Center (accessible via the AF Portal,
https://www.my.af.mil) for CCAF credits earned for technical training courses attended. To be
awarded a CCAF AAS degree, degree requirements must be completed before the student
separates from the Air Force, retires, or is commissioned as an officer. In addition to its
associate’s degree program, CCAF offers the following:
7.1 Certifications.
7.1.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification
training, consisting of the instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF
instructors who possess an associate’s degree or higher may be nominated by their school
commander and commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.
7.1.2. CCAF Instructional Systems Design Certification. CCAF offers the Instructional Systems
Development (ISD) Certification for qualified individuals who develop CCAF
courses/curriculum at CCAF affiliated schools. The purpose of the certification is to recognize
the training and education required for individuals to be qualified to develop and manage CCAF
collegiate courses. The certification also recognizes the individual’s ISD qualification and
experience in planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems.
Qualified officer, enlisted, civilian, and other service curriculum writers/developers are eligible
for this certification.
7.2. Degree Requirements: The Information Management (1AUY) program applies to the
3D0X1 career field. Individuals must hold the 5-skill level at the time of program completion.
                                                                                                                       Semester Hours
Technical Education.......................................................................................................................24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ..............................................................................6
Physical Education ...........................................................................................................................4
General Education ..........................................................................................................................15
Program Electives ..........................................................................................................................15
Total                                                                                                                                       64
7.2.1. Technical Education (24 semester hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical
Core subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours will be applied
from Technical Core/Technical Elective subjects and courses. Requests to substitute comparable
courses or to exceed specified semester hour values in any subject/course must be approved in
advance by the technical branch of the CCAF Administrative Center.
7.2.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 semester hours): Professional Military
Education (PME) and/or civilian management courses. See CCAF General Catalog for
application of civilian management courses.




                                                                     16
7.2.3. Physical Education (4 semester hours): Satisfied upon completion of basic military
training.
7.2.4. General Education (15 semester hours): Courses must meet the criteria for application of
courses to the General Education requirement and be in agreement with the definitions of
applicable General Education subjects/courses as outlined in the CCAF General Catalog.
7.2.5. General Education Mobile (GEM): GEM is a partnership between CCAF and civilian
academic institutions to offer general education courses to meet CCAF A.A.S. degree
requirements. Courses are offered via distance learning which reduces CCAF educational
impact of deployments, PCS and family commitments.
7.2.6. Program Elective (15 semester hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education courses, including natural
science courses meeting General Education requirement application criteria. Nine semester
hours of CCAF degree applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may
be applied. See the current CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associate of
Applied Science degree in this specialty.
7.3. Off-duty Education. Additional off-duty education is highly encouraged. Individuals
desiring to become an AETC instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A
degreed faculty is necessary to maintain CCAF’s accreditation through the Southern Association
of Colleges and Schools.




                                              17
8. Career Field Path. The following summarizes career progression and personnel allocations
across the career ladder. 3D0XX personnel maintain their individual AFSC identifiers through
the rank of MSgt. Upon promotion to SMSgt, individuals holding the 3D0X1 AFSC merge with
3D0X2, 3D0X3, and 3D0X4 to become 3D090. Upon promotion to CMSgt, individuals holding
the 3D090 AFSC become 3D000.




                                             18
                3D0X1 KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT CAREER PATH

                                                    GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training                                                                 High Year
                                                                        Earliest
Requirements                         Rank       Average Sew-On                         of Tenure
                                                                        Sew-On
                                                                                         (HYT)
 Basic Military Training School
              (BMTS)
Apprentice Technical School
                                      Amn           6 months
(3-Skill Level)
Upgrade To Journeyman                 A1C           16 months
(5-Skill Level)
MANDATORY                             SrA            3 years           28 months         8 years
- Minimum 12 months OJT (9
  months for retrainees).
- Complete appropriate CDCs.
- Complete 5-Skill Level Training
  Track CBTs.
- Complete 3DXXX CFETP
  requirements for 5-Skill Level.
- Specific AFJQSs/AFQTPs and
  other training requirements
  required by duty position.
OPTIONAL
- AETC supplemental training
  courses as determined by
  MAJCOM.
Airman Leadership School            Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months’     Must attend the Air Force Training Course (AFTC) and be
  time in service or be a SSgt      qualified/certified to perform the task to be trained.
  selectee.
- Resident graduation is a          Certifier
  prerequisite for SSgt sew-on      Must be at least a SSgt (E-5) with a 5-skill level or civilian
  (Active Duty only).               equivalent, capable of evaluating the task, and have
                                    completed the AFTC.
Upgrade To Craftsman                  SSgt         4.26 years           3 years          15 years
(7-Skill Level)
MANDATORY
- Minimum rank of SSgt and
  12 months OJT (9 months for
  retrainees).
- Complete 7-Skill Level Training
  Track CBTs.
- Complete 3DXXX CFETP
  requirements for 7-Skill Level.


                                               19
               3D0X1 KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT CAREER PATH

                                                GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training                                                        High Year
                                                                 Earliest
Requirements                      Rank      Average Sew-On                    of Tenure
                                                                 Sew-On
                                                                                (HYT)
- Specific AFJQSs/AFQTPs and
  other training requirements
  required by duty position.
OPTIONAL
- AETC supplemental training
  courses as determined by
  MAJCOM.
Noncommissioned Officer            TSgt         12.7 years       5 years       20 years
Academy (NCOA)
- Must be at least TSgt.          MSgt          16.1 years       8 years       24 years
- Resident graduation is a
  prerequisite for MSgt sew-on
  (Active Duty Only).
- ANG/AFRC may attend in-
  residence or complete by
  correspondence course.
Upgrade To Superintendent         SMSgt         18.9 years       11 years      26 years
(9-Skill Level)
MANDATORY
- Minimum rank of SMSgt
- Complete 3DXXX CFETP
requirements for 9-Skill Level.
USAF Senior NCO Academy
(SNCOA)
- Must be a SMSgt or SMSgt-
  selectee.
- A percentage of top MSgts may
  attend the SNCOA.
- Resident graduation is a
  prerequisite for SMSgt sew-on
  (Active Duty Only).
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)      CMSgt         22.2 years       14 years      30 years
NOTE 1: Published sew-on times are Air Force averages. Refer to the Air Force Personnel
Center’s Web site for current information:
http://www.afpc.randolph.af.mil/promotions/index.asp.
NOTE 2: See Part II, Sections C and D for a list of AFJQSs/AFQTPs and AETC supplemental
training.
NOTE 3: All core position tasks must be completed prior to upgrade.


                                           20
Section C – Skill Level Training Requirements
9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this specialty are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each
skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award
and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements are
identified in Part II of this CFETP. NOTE: The 3DXXX Cyberspace Support CFETP lists
additional skill-level requirements which are required by all 3DXXX AFSCs.
10. Specialty Qualification Requirements.
10.1. Apprentice (3-Level) Training.
                          Knowledge is Mandatory of: Planning and Coordinating the
                          Complete Life-Cycle of Organizational Data and Information Assets,
 KNOWLEDGE
                          including Enterprise Information Management Technologies,
                          Information Security, and Knowledge Operations.
                          For entry into this specialty, completion of high school is mandatory.
 EDUCATION                Additional courses in Business, Mathematics, Computer Science,
                          and Information Systems are Desirable.
                          Completion of course E3ABR3D0X1 00AB, Knowledge Management
                          is mandatory for award of the 3-skill level AFSC (until this course is
 TRAINING
                          available, the Knowledge Operations Management course will be
                          used).
 EXPERIENCE               None required.
                          For award and retention of AFSC 3D031, must maintain an Air Force
                          Network License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network
 OTHER
                          Users and Certifying Network Professional; and AFMAN 33-282,
                          Computer Security (COMPUSEC).
                          Entry into training is accomplished by approved retraining from any
 IMPLEMENTATION
                          AFSC or initial classification.
10.2. Journeyman (5-Level) Training.
 KNOWLEDGE                All 3D031 knowledge qualifications.
                          Completion of 3D051 Knowledge Management CDCs. Completion
                          of all 5-Skill Level Training Track CBTs. Completion of all STS 5-
 TRAINING
                          level core tasks and applicable AFJQSs and AFQTPs. Completion
                          of all local tasks assigned for the duty position.
                          Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D031. Experience or
                          knowledge of collaboration/web service applications, information
 EXPERIENCE
                          architectures, records management, and knowledge management
                          principles.
                          For award and retention of AFSC 3D051, must maintain an Air Force
                          Network License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network
 OTHER
                          Users and Certifying Network Professional; and AFMAN 33-282,
                          Computer Security (COMPUSEC).
                          Entry into formal journeyman upgrade training is accomplished once
                          individuals are assigned to their first duty station. Qualification
 IMPLEMENTATION           training is initiated anytime individuals are assigned duties for which
                          they are not qualified. Use OJT, CBTs, CDCs, and
                          AFJQSs/AFQTPs concurrently to obtain the necessary qualifications.



                                               21
10.3. Craftsman (7-Level) Training.
 KNOWLEDGE                All 3D051 knowledge qualifications.
                          Completion of all 7-Skill Level Training Track CBTs. Completion of
 TRAINING                 all STS 7-level core tasks and applicable AFJQSs and AFQTPs.
                          Completion of all local tasks assigned for the duty position.
                          Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D051. Experience
                          performing or supervising knowledge management planning
 EXPERIENCE               functions, such as applying knowledge management principles,
                          solutions, and technologies to improve the effectiveness and
                          efficiency of Air Force organizations.
                          For award and retention of AFSC 3D071, must maintain an Air Force
                          Network License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network
 OTHER
                          Users and Certifying Network Professional; and AFMAN 33-282,
                          Computer Security (COMPUSEC).
                          Entry into OJT is initiated when individuals are selected for
                          promotion to SSgt. Qualification training is initiated anytime an
 IMPLEMENTATION           individual is assigned duties for which they are not qualified. Use
                          OJT, CBTs, CDCs, and AFJQSs/AFQTPs concurrently to obtain the
                          necessary qualifications.
10.4. Superintendent (9-Level) Training. 3D090 skill level requirements are listed in the
3DXXX Cyberspace Support (Common Core) CFETP.
10.5. Training Sources.
10.5.1. AFSC specific training – 336 TRS, Keesler AFB, MS at https://etca.randolph.af.mil.
10.5.2. CDCs 3DX5X and 3D0X1 are available for upgrade purposes through the unit training
manager or online at Air University. For individual qualification and cross-utilization training,
CDCs are ordered through the unit training office.
10.5.3. AFJQSs/AFQTPs are Air Force publications and are mandatory for use by personnel in
upgrade or qualification training. They are developed by the 81 TRSS (Q-Flight), Keesler AFB,
MS and may be downloaded from
https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/20946/AFKN_Docs/Forms/AllItems.aspx. Procedures for requesting
development of AFJQSs/AFQTPs are contained in AFI 33-154, Air Force On-the-Job Training
Products for Cyberspace Support Enlisted Specialty Training. AFJQSs/AFQTPs are listed in
Part II, Section C, of this CFETP.




                                                22
Section D – Resource Constraints
11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal and
desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and
manpower. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.
12. Apprentice (3-Level) Training. E3ABR3D0X1 00AB, Knowledge Management training
course.
12.1. Constraints. Required lead-time for development of resident training to meet added and
changed training requirements specified in this CFETP.
12.2. Impact. Required training will not be ready for implementation upon publication of this
CFETP.
12.3. Resources Required. Manpower resources are available to complete required course
revisions. Command assistance may be necessary to supplement job experience and subject
matter expertise of the assigned instructor staff.
12.4. Action Required. Complete creation of the 3-level course to meet all training
requirements and proficiency codes identified in this CFETP.
12.5. OPR/Target Completion Date. 336 TRS/UUB will implement revised training with the
class date not yet determined.
13. Journeyman (5-Level) Training. CDC 3D051, Knowledge Management Journeyman.
13.1. Constraints. Required lead-time for development of non-resident training to meet added
and changed training requirements specified in this CFETP.
13.2. Impact. Required training will not be ready for implementation upon publication of this
CFETP.
13.3. Resources Required. Manpower resources are available to complete required course
revisions by the specified target completion date. Command assistance may be necessary to
supplement job experience and subject matter expertise of the assigned CDC development staff.
13.4. Action Required. Complete creation of CDC 3D051 to meet all training requirements
identified in this CFETP.
13.5. OPR/Target Completion Date. 336 TRS/UUB will create and publish CDC 3D051,
Knowledge Management Journeyman. The CDC will be available for order from AU/A4L after
a date not yet determined.
14. Craftsman (7-Level) Training. No constraints.
15. Superintendent (9-Level) Training. No constraints.
Section E – Transition Training Guide
There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                23
PART II
Section A – Specialty Training Standard (STS)
1. Implementation. The STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for the
Knowledge Management apprentice course with the class beginning on a date not yet
determined. The creation of 5-level CDC using the proficiency codes listed in column 4B is
scheduled to be released on a date not yet determined.
2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:
2.1. Lists, in column 1, the most common tasks, knowledge, and Technical References (TR)
necessary for Airmen to perform their duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.
2.2. Identifies, in column 2, core tasks by skill level. Tasks identified with a number “5” are
required for 5-level upgrade training. Tasks identified with a number “7” are required for 7-level
upgrade training.
2.3. Provides, in column 3, certification for on-the-job (OJT) training by documenting
completion of tasks and knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management
systems to document technician qualifications, if available.
2.4. Shows, in column 4, formal training and correspondence course requirements by listing the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task and
the career knowledge provided by the corresponding course.
2.5. Contains, in Attachment 1, the proficiency code key used to indicate the level of training
and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.
2.6. Is used to document task completion when placed in the AF Form 623, Individual Training
Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201. CFETP documentation shall be IAW AFI 36-2201
or any subsequent messages.
2.7. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields develop
the Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) at the USAF Occupational Measurement Squadron. The
tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members
as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references
listed in the Enlisted Promotions Reference and Requirements Catalog (EPRRC). Individual
responsibilities are in AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel Testing System.




                                                24
3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality of
AETC training. A Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) has been installed for the
supervisors’ convenience. For a quick response to concerns, call our CSIL at DSN 597-4566, or
fax us at DSN 597-3790, or e-mail us at 81trg-tget@keesler.af.mil. Reference this STS and
identify the specific area of concern (paragraph, training standard element, etc.).

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                   MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           Chief, Information Dominance and
                                             Chief Information Officer

Attachments:
1. Qualitative Requirements
2. 3D0X1 Specialty Training Standard (STS)




                                             25
                                             PREFACE
NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating technical references to identify current references
pending STS revision. Locate current Air Force publications at:
     DOD Issuances and OSD Administrative Instructions at:
     http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/
     Air Force publications at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
     AFSSIs at: https://private.afnic.af.mil/ia/PolicyDocuments.cfm
     DISA Circulars and Instructions at: https://www.disa.mil/About/DISA-Issuances
     Technical Orders (TO) at: https://www.my.af.mil/etims/ETIMS/index.jsp
     AF e-Learning:
     https://usafprod.skillport.com/skillportfe/custom/login/usaf/seamlesslogin.action
NOTE 2: Knowledge and/or performance tasks are defined in the AFJQS. AFJQS items set the
standard for qualification and certification and are mandatory for use in conjunction with this
STS when applicable to the duty position.
NOTE 3: All objectives are trained during wartime.
NOTE 4: Track and manage training for TSgts and below and MSgt/SMSgt retrainees using
Training Business Area (TBA).
NOTE 5: When an AFJQS is loaded into TBA, AFJQS task numbering will vary from the STS.
The numbering scheme is defined by your work center specific master training plan.
NOTE 6: Third person certification is not required for Cyberspace Support Specialist personnel.
However, members (to include civilians and contractors) assigned to crew positions are still
required position certification in accordance with Stan/Eval procedures.
NOTE 7: In the event of data network or computer system failure, courses are authorized to use
alternative methods of instruction to fulfill this STS element.
NOTE 8: Unless otherwise stated in the objective, the student may be allowed two assists from
the instructor and still successfully achieve the proper level of proficiency. An instructor assist is
defined as anytime an instructor must intercede to provide guidance to a student which leads to a
satisfactory completion of the objective or to prevent a student from continuing in a manner
which will lead to an unsatisfactory conclusion, safety violation, or damage to the equipment.
Successful students have performed the task to the satisfaction of the course; however, they may
not be capable of meeting the field requirements for speed or accuracy.
NOTE 9: All equipment related objectives are performed by following procedures from
technical orders, technical manuals, or student instructional material developed by the training
facility.
NOTE 10: Senior NCOs in the 3DXXX AFSCs are not required to have an Individual Training
Plan (ITP) with the following exceptions: personnel in upgrade training status, or performing
equipment maintenance as part of primary duties. Unit Commanders can require Senior NCOs
with UTC tasks to have an ITP.




                                                  26
                                                                                               Qualitative Requirements




                                        THIS BLOCK IS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY

                                                    Personal Data – Privacy Act of 1974

PRINTED NAME OF TRAINEE (Last, First, Middle Initial)                           INITIALS (Written)          SSN



                          PRINTED NAME OF TRAINER AND CERTIFYING OFFICIAL AND WRITTEN INITIALS


N/I                                                                   N/I


N/I                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                   N/I


N/I                                                                   N/I


N/I                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                   N/I




                                                     PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
-             SCALE   DEFINITION: The individual
              VALUE
                1     Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (EXTREMELY LIMITED)
Performance
   Levels




                2     Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)
    Task




                3     Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)
                4     Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
                a     Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)
Knowledge
  Levels




                b     Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)
  *Task




                c     Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed. (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
                d     Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCED THEORY)
                A     Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)
Knowledge
 **Subject

   Levels




                B     Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (PRINCIPLES)
                C     Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)
                D     Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)
                                                               Explanations
The following codes are used in the Core & Wartime Tasks column of the STS:

“-“ indicates that the qualification is a local determination.
“5” indicates the CFM has mandated this task as a core 5-level requirement. The training to satisfy this requirement is either
provided through OJT, CBTs, CDCs, or a combination.
“7” indicates the CFM has mandated this task as a core 7-level requirement. The training to satisfy this requirement is either
provided through OJT, CBTs, CDCs, or a combination.




                                                                    27                                                        Attachment 1
                                                                                                           3D0X1 STS




                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED
                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                         A         B         C         D
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C           D          E
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                                          3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER   LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS    INITIALS    INITIALS   Course     CDC       CDC       CDC

1. KNOWLEDGE
MANAGEMENT CAREER
FIELD
TR: AFIs 33-396 and
36-2618; 3D0X1 CFETP;
AFECD
1.1. Career Field Structure      5                                                           -         -         -         -
1.2. Read CFETP 3D0X1
                                 5                                                           -         -         -         -
Part I
1.3. Associated Career
                                 5                                                          A         B          -         -
Field Family AFSCs
1.4. Air Force Specialty
Code 3D0X1
1.4.1. Duties                    5                                                          A         A          -         -
1.4.2. Responsibilities          5                                                          A         B          -         -
1.4.3. Core Competencies         5                                                          A         B          -         -
1.4.4. Qualifications            5                                                          A         A          -         -
1.4.5. Progression               5                                                          A         B          -         -
1.5. Knowledge
Management Center
(KMC)
1.5.1. Overview                  5                                                          A         A          -         -
1.5.2. Responsibilities          5                                                          A         B          -         -
1.5.3. Policy Compliance
1.5.3.1. Roles and
Responsibilities
1.5.3.1.1. Privacy Act (PA)
                                 5                                                          A         B          -         -
Program
1.5.3.1.2. Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA)           5                                                          A         B          -         -
Program
1.5.3.1.3. Personally
Identifiable Information         5                                                          A         B          -         -
(PII) Program
1.5.3.1.4. For Official Use
                                 5                                                          A         B          -         -
Only (FOUO) Program
1.5.4. Sustained Roles           5                                                          A         B          -         -
1.5.5. Mobile Roles              5                                                          A         B          -         -
2. ENTERPRISE
INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT (EIM)
TECHNOLOGIES
TR: AFIs 33-129, 33-396
AFMAN 33-152; AF
eLearning, TO 00-33D-
2001, TO 00-33D-3001;
www.dco.dod.mil,
https://www.milsuite.mil/


                                                              28                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                          3D0X1 STS



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED
                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                         A         B         C         D
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C           D          E
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                                          3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER   LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS    INITIALS    INITIALS   Course     CDC       CDC       CDC


2.1. Overview
2.1.1. Information
                                 5                                                          A         A          -         -
Architecture
2.1.2. Hypertext Markup
                                 -                                                          A         A          -         -
Language Code (HTML)
2.1.3. Types of
                                 5                                                          A         A          -         -
Technologies
2.2. Standards
2.2.1. Open Data                 5                                                          A         B          -         -
2.2.2. National Information
                                 5                                                          A         B          -         -
Exchange Model (NIEM)
2.2.3. Metadata                  5                                                          A         B          -         -
2.2.4. Naming
                                 5                                                          A         B          -         -
Conventions
2.3. Electronic Mail
2.3.1. Policy                    5                                                          A         B          -         -
2.3.2. Electronic Mail
                                 5                                                          A         A          -         -
Applications
2.3.3. Manage
Organizational Mailbox           5                                                          2b        b          -         -
Content
2.3.4. Save As a Message
                                 5                                                          2b        b          -         -
Format (msg)
2.3.5. Create Folders            5                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.3.6. Apply Tracking to
                                 5                                                          2b        b          -         -
Message
2.3.7. Perform Back-up
                                 5                                                          2b        b          -
Methods
2.3.8. Manage Personal
                                 5                                                          2b        b          -         -
Storage Template (pst)
2.3.9. Create/Update
                                 5                                                          2b        b          -         -
Tasks
2.3.10. Apply Encryption         5                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.3.11. Apply Privacy Act
                                 5                                                          2b        b          -         -
Statement
2.3.12. Apply FOUO
                                 5                                                          2b        b          -         -
Designation
2.3.13. Safeguard
Personally Identifiable          5                                                          2b        b          -         -
Information (PII)
2.4. Air Force Portal
2.4.1. Program Objectives        5                                                          A         B          -         -
2.4.2. Roles and
Responsibilities
2.4.2.1. Content Provider        5                                                          A         B          -         -
2.4.2.2. Content Publisher       5                                                          A         B          -         -
2.4.2.3. Wing/Group/Unit                                                                                         -
                                 5                                                          A         B                    -
Content Manager


                                                              29                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                          3D0X1 STS



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                    PROVIDED
                             2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &                                                         A         B         C         D
AND TECHNICAL                           A       B        C           D          E
                             WARTIME
REFERENCES
                              TASKS

                                                                                         3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER   LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS    INITIALS    INITIALS   Course     CDC       CDC       CDC

2.4.2.4.                                                                                                        -
MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Lead             5                                                          A         B                    -
Content Manager
2.4.2.5. Publishing Center                                                                                      -
                                -                                                           -         -                   -
Portal (PCP) Access
2.4.3. Air Force Portal
Architecture
2.4.3.1. Access                                                                                                 -
                                5                                                          2b        b                    -
Production Environment
2.4.3.2. Manipulate User                                                                                        -
                                5                                                          2b         -                   -
Navigation
2.4.3.3. Update My Profile      5                                                          2b         -         -         -
2.4.3.4. Edit Workspaces        5                                                          2b         -         -         -
2.4.3.5. Join Groups            5                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.4.4. Development
Environment
2.4.4.1. Use Global                                                                                             -
                                -                                                          2b        b                    -
Navigation
2.4.4.2. Add Portlet            -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.4.4.3. Edit Portlet           -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.4.4.4. Remove Portlet         -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.4.4.5. Add Topic              -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.4.4.6. Edit Topic             -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.4.4.7. Remove Topic           -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.4.4.8. Manage the                                                                                             -
                                -                                                          2b        b                    -
Calendar
2.4.4.9. Add Content            -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.4.4.10. Edit Site Header      -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.4.5. AF Portal                                                                                                -
                                -                                                          A         B                    -
Deployment Cycle
2.4.6. Portal Updates
2.4.6.1. Add Channel            -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.4.6.2. Add Program            -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.4.6.3. Add Content            -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.4.7. Portlet
2.4.7.1. Change Topic                                                                                           -
                                -                                                          2b        b                    -
Status
2.4.8. Import graphics          -                                                          2b        b          -
2.4.9. Establish Links          -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.5. SharePoint
2.5.1. Policy                   5                                                          A         B          -         -
2.5.2. Roles and                                                                                                -
                                5                                                          A         B                    -
Responsibilities


                                                             30                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                          3D0X1 STS



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                    PROVIDED
                             2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &                                                         A         B         C         D
AND TECHNICAL                           A       B        C           D          E
                             WARTIME
REFERENCES
                              TASKS

                                                                                         3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER   LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS    INITIALS    INITIALS   Course     CDC       CDC       CDC


2.5.3. Site Structure
2.5.3.1. Purpose                5                                                          A         B          -         -
2.5.4. Sites
2.5.4.1. Purpose                5                                                          A         B          -         -
2.5.4.2. Create                 5                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.5.4.3 Manage Site                                                                                             -
                                5                                                          2b        b                    -
Layout
2.5.4.4. Create/Use                                                                                             -
                                5                                                          2b        b                    -
Dashboards
2.5.5. Content
2.5.5.1. Add Links              5                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.5.5.2. Insert Graphics        5                                                          2b        B          -         -
2.5.5.3. Add a Calendar         5                                                          2b        B          -         -
2.5.5.4. Create Custom                                                                                          -
                                -                                                           -         -                   -
Content Types
2.5.5.5. Add                    5                                                          2b        B          -         -
2.5.5.6. Move                   5                                                          2b         -         -         -
2.5.5.7. Remove                 5                                                          2b        B          -         -
2.5.6. Library
2.5.6.1. Create/Manage                                                                                          -
                                5                                                          2b        b                    -
Templates
2.5.6.2. Create a                                                                                               -
                                5                                                          2b        b                    -
Document Library
2.5.6.3. Check-Out a                                                                                            -
                                5                                                          2b        b                    -
Document
2.5.6.4. Check-In a                                                                                             -
                                5                                                          2b        b                    -
Document
2.5.6.5. Manage Version                                                                                         -
                                5                                                          2b        b                    -
Control
2.5.6.6. Set Alerts             5                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.5.7. Workflow
2.5.7.1. Create/Use                                                                                             -
                                5                                                          2b        b                    -
Workflows
2.5.7.2. Enable Out of the                                                                                      -
                                5                                                           -         -                   -
Box Workflows
2.5.7.3. Associate                                                                                              -
                                5                                                           -         -                   -
Workflows to Lists
2.5.7.4. Associate                                                                                              -
                                5                                                           -         -                   -
Workflows to Libraries
2.5.7.5. Prepare/Route                                                                                          -
                                5                                                          2b        b                    -
Content for Approval
2.5.8. Permissions
2.5.8.1. Hierarchy              5                                                          A         B          -         -
2.5.8.2. Create/Manage          5                                                          2b         -         -         -



                                                             31                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                         3D0X1 STS



                                                                                         4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                3. Certification for OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                   PROVIDED
                            2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                &                                                         A         B         C         D
AND TECHNICAL                          A       B        C           D          E
                            WARTIME
REFERENCES
                             TASKS

                                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                      START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER   LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                      DATE    DATE   INITIALS    INITIALS    INITIALS   Course     CDC       CDC       CDC

2.5.8.3. Create/Manage                                                                                         -
                               5                                                          2b         -                   -
Groups
2.5.8.4. Create Custom                                                                                         -
                               5                                                          2b        b                    -
Lists
2.5.8.5. Remove Users          5                                                          2b         -         -         -
2.5.9. Galleries
2.5.9.1. Establish Site                                                                                        -
                               -                                                          2b         -                   -
Columns
2.5.9.2. Add Site Content                                                                                      -
                               -                                                          2b         -                   -
Type
2.5.10. Manage Site                                                                                            -
                               -                                                          2b        b                    -
Settings
2.5.11. Organize Content       -                                                          2b         -         -         -
2.5.12. Web Parts
2.5.12.1. Uses                 5                                                          A         B          -         -
2.5.12.2. Add                  -                                                          2b         -         -         -
2.5.12.3. Modify               -                                                          2b         -         -         -
2.5.12.4. Embed                                                                                                -
                               -                                                           -         -                   -
Hyperlinks
2.5.12.5. Edit Chrome                                                                                          -
                               -                                                           -         -                   -
State
2.5.13. Embed Multimedia       -                                                           -         -         -         -
2.5.14. Export Documents                                                                                       -
                               -                                                          2b        b                    -
to Microsoft Office
2.5.15. Site Actions
2.5.15.1. Web Analytics        -                                                           -         -         -         -
2.5.15.2. Activate Site                                                                                        -
                               -                                                          2b        b                    -
Features
2.5.15.3. Activate Site                                                                                        -
                               -                                                          2b        b                    -
Collection Features
2.5.15.4. Complete Site                                                                                        -
                               -                                                          2b        b                    -
Collection Audit
2.5.16. Navigation
2.5.16.1. Create                                                                                               -
                               -                                                          2b        b                    -
Customized Navigation
2.5.16.2. HTML
2.5.16.2.1. Create                                                                                             -
                               -                                                           -         -                   -
Hyperlinks Using HTML
2.5.16.2.2. Create                                                                                             -
                               -                                                           -         -                   -
Marquee Using HTML
2.5.17. Views
2.5.17.1. Manage               -                                                           -         -         -         -
2.5.17.2. Create a                                                                                             -
                               -                                                          2b        b                    -
Standard
2.5.17.3. Create a Data                                                                                        -
                               -                                                          2b        b                    -
Sheet



                                                            32                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                         3D0X1 STS



                                                                                         4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                3. Certification for OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                   PROVIDED
                            2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                &                                                         A         B         C         D
AND TECHNICAL                          A       B        C           D          E
                            WARTIME
REFERENCES
                             TASKS

                                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                      START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER   LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                      DATE    DATE   INITIALS    INITIALS    INITIALS   Course     CDC       CDC       CDC


2.5.18 Filters
2.5.18.1. Manage               -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.5.18.2. Create               -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.5.19. SharePoint
Designer
2.5.19.1. Purpose              5                                                          A         B          -         -
2.5.19.2. Create                                                                                               -
                               -                                                           -         -                   -
Workflows
2.5.19.3. Create                                                                                               -
                               -                                                           -         -                   -
Impersonation Steps
2.5.19.4. Create Action                                                                                        -
                               -                                                           -         -                   -
Statements
2.5.20. Condition
Statements
2.5.20.1. Purpose
2.5.20.1.1. If-Then                                                                                            -
                               -                                                           -         -                   -
Statements
2.5.20.1.2. If-Else                                                                                            -
                               -                                                           -         -                   -
Statements
2.5.21. Move Site              -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.5.22. Reset Site             -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.5.23. Delete Site            -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.5.24. Item Recovery
2.5.24.1. From Recycle                                                                                         -
                               -                                                          2b        b                    -
Bin
2.5.24.2. From Site                                                                                            -
                               -                                                          2b        b                    -
Collection Recycle Bin
2.5.25. Data
2.5.25.1. Export               -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.5.25.2. Retrieve                                                                                             -
                               -                                                          2b        b                    -
Archived Data
2.5.26. Workflow Kickflow
Activation
2.5.26.1. Purpose              -                                                          A         B          -         -
2.5.26.2. Manual               -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.5.26.3. Automatic            -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.6. Collaboration
Technologies
2.6.1. Overview                5                                                          A         A          -         -
2.6.2. Defense Connect
Online (DCO)
2.6.2.1. Purpose               -                                                          A         B          -         -
2.6.2.2. Create Account        -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.6.2.3. Create a Meeting      -                                                          2b        b          -         -



                                                            33                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                         3D0X1 STS



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                    PROVIDED
                             2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                 &                                                         A         B         C         D
AND TECHNICAL                           A       B        C           D          E
                             WARTIME
REFERENCES
                              TASKS

                                                                                         3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER   LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS    INITIALS    INITIALS   Course     CDC       CDC       CDC


2.6.2.4. Post Content           -                                                          2b        b          -         -
2.7. Office Applications
2.7.1. Identify Software                                                                                        -
                                5                                                          A         B                    -
Applications
2.7.2. Microsoft Office
Suite
2.7.2.1. Identify File                                                                                          -
                                5                                                          A         B                    -
Extensions
2.7.2.2. Identify Storage                                                                                       -
                                5                                                          A         B                    -
Parameters
3. INFORMATION
ACCESS PROGRAMS
TR: AFIs 31-401, 33-321
33-322, 33-324, 33-332,
33-364, 33-393; AFMAN
33-363; DoD 5400.7-
R_AFMAN 33-302;
www.foia.af.mil,
https://safe.amrdec.army.m
il/safe/welcome.aspx
3.1. Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA)
Program
3.1.1. Program Objectives       5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.1.2. Process Requests         5                                                          2b        b          -         -
3.1.3. Access Electronic
                                -                                                          2b        b          -         -
Reading Rooms
3.1.4. Prepare End-of-
                                -                                                          2b        b          -         -
Year Report
3.2. For Official Use Only
(FOUO)
3.2.1. Program Objectives       5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.2.2. Marking
3.2.2.1. E-mail                 5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.2.2.2.
Hardware/Removable              5                                                          A         B          -         -
Media
3.2.2.3. Documents              5                                                          2b        b          -         -
3.2.3. Access                   5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.2.4. Protection               5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.2.5. Disclosure               5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.2.6. Transmission             5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.2.7. Disposal                 5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.3. Privacy Act (PA)
Office of Primary
Responsibility
3.3.1. Program Objectives       5                                                          A         B          -         -



                                                             34                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                            3D0X1 STS



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. Certification for OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED
                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                   &                                                         A         B         C         D
AND TECHNICAL                             A       B        C           D          E
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                           3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER   LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS    INITIALS    INITIALS   Course     CDC       CDC       CDC


3.3.2. Process a Request          5                                                          2b        b          -         -
3.3.3. Apply Marking              5                                                          2b        b          -         -
3.3.4. Accessibility              5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.3.5. Apply Protection           5                                                          2b        b          -         -
3.3.6. Disposal                   5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.3.7. Warning Banner             5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.3.8. Program
                                  -                                                          A         B          -         -
Exemptions
3.4. Personally Identifiable
Information (PII)
3.4.1. Definition                 5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.4.2. Collection                 5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.4.3. Social Security
                                  5                                                          A         B          -         -
Number Reduction
3.4.4. Apply Protections          5                                                          2b        b          -         -
3.4.5. Transmission               5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.4.6. Breach Processing          5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.4.7. Disposal                   5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.4.8. Incident Response
3.4.8.1. Notifications            5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.4.8.2. USCERT
                                  -                                                          A         B          -         -
Reporting
3.4.8.3. Base Level
                                  -                                                          A         B          -         -
Reporting
3.4.9. Safe Access File
                                  -                                                          A         B          -         -
Exchange (SAFE)
3.4.10. Enterprise
Information Technology            -                                                          A         B          -         -
Data Repository (EITDR)
3.4.11. Federal Register          -                                                          A         B          -         -
3.4.12. Create Database           -                                                          2b         -         -         -
3.4.13. Create PA
Systems of Records                -                                                          2b         -         -         -
Database
3.4.14. Create Privacy
                                  -                                                          2b         -         -         -
Impact Assessments (PIA)
3.4.15. Systems of
Records Notices (SORNs)
3.4.15.1. Overview                -                                                          A         A          -         -
3.4.15.2. Evaluate SORN           -                                                          2b        b          -         -
3.4.15.3. Create SORN             -                                                          2b        b          -         -
3.5. Civil Liberties



                                                               35                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                           3D0X1 STS



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED
                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                         A         B         C         D
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C           D          E
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                                          3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER   LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS    INITIALS    INITIALS   Course     CDC       CDC       CDC


3.5.1. Overview                  5                                                          A         A          -         -
3.5.2. Roles and
                                 5                                                          A         B          -         -
Responsibilities
3.5.3. Constitutional and
                                 -                                                          A         B          -         -
Amendment Rights
3.5.4. Quarterly Reports         -                                                          A         B          -         -
3.5.5. Complaints Process        -                                                          A         B          -         -
3.6. Electronic and
Information Technology
Accessible to Individuals
with Disabilities, Section
508
3.6.1. Overview                  5                                                          A         A          -         -
3.6.2. Roles and
                                 5                                                          A         B          -         -
Responsibilities
3.7. Records Management
Program
3.7.1. Overview                  5                                                          A         A          -         -
3.7.2. Basic Terms               5                                                          A         A          -         -
3.7.3. Roles and
                                 5                                                          A         B          -         -
Responsibilities
3.7.4. AF Records
Information Management
System (AFRIMS)
3.7.4.1. Overview                5                                                          A         A          -         -

3.7.4.2. Create Accounts         5                                                          A         B          -         -

3.7.4.3. Set Permissions         5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.7.4.4. Research
Records Disposition              5                                                          2b        B          -         -
Schedule (RDS)
3.7.4.5. Prepare File
Maintenance and                  -                                                          2b        B          -         -
Disposition Plan
3.7.4.6. File Plan
3.7.4.6.1. Add Items             -                                                          2b        b          -         -
3.7.4.6.2. Edit Items            -                                                          2b         -         -         -
3.7.4.6.3. Delete Items          -                                                          2b         -         -         -
3.7.4.6.4. Renumber Items        -                                                          2b         -         -         -
3.7.4.6.5. Determine Cut-
                                 -                                                          2b        b          -         -
Off
3.7.4.6.6. Route File Plan
                                 -                                                          2b         -         -         -
for Approval
3.7.4.6.7.
Approve/Disapprove File          -                                                          2b         -         -         -
Plans
3.7.4.6.8. Printing Options      -                                                          A         B          -         -


                                                              36                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                              3D0X1 STS



                                                                                              4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                     3. Certification for OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                        PROVIDED
                                 2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                     &                                                         A         B         C         D
AND TECHNICAL                               A       B        C           D          E
                                 WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                  TASKS

                                                                                             3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                           START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER   LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                           DATE    DATE   INITIALS    INITIALS    INITIALS   Course     CDC       CDC       CDC


3.7.4.7. Filing Procedures
3.7.4.7.1. Approved
                                    -                                                          A         B          -         -
Supplies
3.7.4.7.2. Arrange File
                                    -                                                          2b        B          -         -
Folders
3.7.4.7.3. Arrange
                                    -                                                          2b        b          -         -
Disposition Guide Cards
3.7.4.7.4. Mark Records
                                    -                                                          2b        b          -         -
for Filing
3.7.4.7.5. Use Cross
                                    -                                                          2b        b          -         -
Reference Documents
3.7.4.7.6. Use Charge Out
                                    -                                                          2b        b          -         -
Records
3.7.5. Staging Area
3.7.5.1. Purpose                    5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.7.5.2. Procedures                 5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.7.5.3. Requirements               5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.7.5.4. Waivers                    5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.7.6. Vital Records
3.7.6.1. Overview                   -                                                          A         B          -         -
3.7.6.2. Identify Vital
                                    -                                                          2b        b          -         -
Records
3.7.6.3. Vital Records Plan         -                                                          A          -         -         -
3.7.6.4. Vital Records
                                    -                                                          A         A          -         -
Protection
3.7.7. Transferring and
                                    -                                                          A         A          -         -
Disposing of Records
3.7.8. Record Search
3.7.8.1. Purpose                    5                                                          A         B          -         -
3.7.8.2. Perform Records
                                    5                                                          2b        B          -         -
Search
3.7.8.3. Positive Records           5                                                          A          -         -         -
3.7.8.4. Complete and
                                    5                                                          2b         -         -         -
Close Out
3.7.9. Staff Assistance
                                    5                                                          A         B          -         -
Visit
3.7.10. Electronic Records
Management (ERM)
3.7.10.1. Business Rules
                                    5                                                           -         -         -         -
for Electronic Files (e-files)
3.7.10.2. Update Metadata
                                    5                                                          2b         -         -         -
Fields
3.8. The Air Force
Information Collections and
Reports Management
Program
3.8.1. Overview                     -                                                          A          -         -         -



                                                                 37                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                        3D0X1 STS



                                                                                        4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                               3. Certification for OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                  PROVIDED
                           2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                               &                                                         A         B         C         D
AND TECHNICAL                         A       B        C           D          E
                           WARTIME
REFERENCES
                            TASKS

                                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                     START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER   LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                     DATE    DATE   INITIALS    INITIALS    INITIALS   Course     CDC       CDC       CDC

3.8.2. Roles and
                              -                                                          A          -         -         -
Responsibilities
4. KNOWLEDGE
OPERATIONS
TR: AFI 33-396; AFPD 33-
3; AF e-Learning
4.1. Overview                 5                                                          A         A          -         -
4.2. Phases                   -                                                           -         -         -         -
4.3. Capabilities
4.3.1. Technical              7                                                          A         A          -         -
4.3.2. Organizational         7                                                          A         A          -         -
4.4. Types of Knowledge
4.4.1. Attributes             5                                                          A         A          -         -
4.4.2. Tacit                  5                                                          A         A          -         -
4.4.3. Explicit               5                                                          A         A          -         -
4.5. Knowledge Processes      -                                                           -         -         -         -
4.6. Knowledge Audits         -                                                           -         -         -         -
4.7. Knowledge Maps           -                                                           -         -         -         -
4.8. Knowledge
Management
4.8.1. Change
                              -                                                           -         -         -         -
Management Plan
4.8.2. Sciences               -                                                          A         A          -         -
4.8.3. Lifecycle              -                                                          A         A          -         -
4.9. Knowledge
Management Technologies
4.9.1. Overview               -                                                           -         -         -         -

4.9.2. Cloud Computing
4.9.2.1. Overview             -                                                          A          -         -         -
5. CONTINUOUS
PROCESS
IMPROVEMENT
TR: AFI 33-396; AF e-
Learning
5.1. Lean Six Sigma
5.1.1. Overview               7                                                           -         -         -         -
5.1.2. Roles and
                              7                                                           -         -         -         -
Responsibilities
5.1.3. Phases
5.1.3.1. Define
5.1.3.1.1. Project
                              7                                                           -         -         -         -
Selection


                                                           38                                                 Attachment 2
                                                                                                           3D0X1 STS



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                 INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED
                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE
                                  &                                                         A         B         C         D
AND TECHNICAL                            A       B        C           D          E
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                                          3 SKILL   5 SKILL   7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE     TRAINER    CERTIFIER   LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL     LEVEL
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS    INITIALS    INITIALS   Course     CDC       CDC       CDC

5.1.3.1.2. Business
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
Process Mapping
5.1.3.1.3. Determine
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
Customer Deliverables
5.1.3.2. Measure
5.1.3.2.1. Define
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
Characteristics
5.1.3.2.2. Outline
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
Performance Standards
5.1.3.2.3. Develop a Data
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
Collection Plan
5.1.3.2.4. Validate              7                                                           -         -         -         -
5.1.3.3. Analyze
5.1.3.3.1. Baseline
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
Process Capability
5.1.3.3.2. Define
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
Performance Objective
5.1.3.3.3. Identify Sources
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
of Variation
5.1.3.4. Improve
5.1.3.4.1. Identify
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
Solutions
5.1.3.4.2. Develop
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
Implementation Plan
5.1.3.5. Control
5.1.3.5.1. Validate
Measurement System               7                                                           -         -         -         -
Analysis
5.1.3.5.2. Determine
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
Process Capability
5.1.3.5.3. Develop Control
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
Plan
5.2. Air Force Smart
Operations for the 21st
Century (AFSO21)
5.2.1. Overview                  7                                                          A          -         -         -
6. COMPUTER-BASED
TRAINING
TR: AF e-Learning
6.1. 5-Skill Level Training
                                 5                                                           -         -         -         -
Tracks
6.2. 7-Skill Level Training
                                 7                                                           -         -         -         -
Tracks
6.3. SharePoint Designer
Knowledge Management             -                                                           -         -         -         -
or SharePoint Certification
6.4. Knowledge
Management Certification
                                 -                                                           -         -         -         -
Knowledge Management
or SharePoint Certification




                                                              39                                                 Attachment 2
Section B – Course Objective List
6. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows: W indicates task or subject
knowledge which is measured using a written test; PC indicates required task performance which
is measured with a performance progress check; and PC/W indicates separate measurement of
both knowledge and performance elements using a written test and a progress check.
7. Standard. The standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for performance
measurement are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress checklist.
Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check and students may be
required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.
8. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level which
means the student can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of
the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step procedures for doing
the task.
Section C – Support Materials
9. The following list of support materials is not all-inclusive; however, it covers the most
frequently referenced areas. The most current products can be found at the 81 TRSS/TSQ web
page and are available for download from the web site at:
https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/20946/AFKN_Docs/Forms/AllItems.aspx. Procedures for requesting
product development are found in AFI 33-154.
Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs applicable to 3D0X1:
Publication Number                    Pseudo File                   Publication Title
AFJQS3DXXX-225S                       N/A                           Sharepoint
Section D – Training Course Index
10. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for continuation/
supplemental training. For information on all formal courses, refer to the Air Force Education
and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) database at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.
11. Air Force In-Residence Courses.
Course Number                 Course Title                                  Location
E3AQR3D0X1 00AA               IT Fundamentals Basic                         Keesler AFB MS
E3ABR3D031 00AA               Knowledge Operations Management*              Keesler AFB MS
E3ABR3D0X1 00AB               Knowledge Management*                         Keesler AFB MS
* The Knowledge Operations Management course (E3ABR3D031 00AA) will continue to be
used until replaced by the newer Knowledge Management course (E3ABR3D0X1 00AB).
12. Air University/A4L Courses.
For a current listing of Air University A4/6 courses go to http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl.
13. Exportable Courses.
For a current list of the available CBT courses refer to AF e-Learning at https://www.my.af.mil.
Section E – MAJCOM Unique Requirements
12. There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.

                                                40
