DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   CFETP 1P0X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                       Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1480                                                     1 January 2014
                                                                                   Change 1


                         AFSC 1P0X1
                  AIRCREW FLIGHT EQUIPMENT




                    CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                   AND TRAINING PLAN (CFETP)




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE   CFETP 1P0X1
Headquarters US Air Force       Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1480     1 January 2014
                                   Change 1
                                                                                                     CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

                             CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                               AIRCREW FLIGHT EQUIPMENT SPECIALTY
                                             AFSC 1P0X1

                                                             Table of Contents

PART I
Preface..........................................................................................................................................2
Abbreviations/Terms Explained ..................................................................................................3

Section A--General Information ..................................................................................................7
Purpose of the CFETP
Use of the CFETP
Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B--Career Progression and Information .........................................................................8
Specialty Description
Skill and Career Progression
        Apprentice (3) Level
        Journeyman (5) Level
        Craftsman (7) Level
        Superintendent (9) Level
Training Decisions
Community College of the Air Force
Career Field Path
        Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist

Section C--Skill Level Training Requirements ...........................................................................16
Purpose
Specialty Requirements
       Apprentice Level Training
       Journeyman Level Training
       Craftsman Level Training
       Superintendent Level Training
Section D--Resource Constraints ................................................................................................20
Section E--Transitional Training Guide ......................................................................................20

PART II
Section A--Course Objective List ...............................................................................................21
Section B--Support Material........................................................................................................21
Section C--Training Course Index ..............................................................................................22
Section D--MAJCOM Unique Requirements .............................................................................24
Section E--Specialty Training Standard ......................................................................................25
________________________
Supersedes: CFETP 1P031, dated 1 December 2011
OPR: 361 TRS/TRR
Approved By: CMSgt Mike T. Lightner
Number of printed pages: 99



                                                                          1
                                                                      CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

                     AIRCREW FLIGHT EQUIPMENT SPECIALTY
                                  AFSC 1P0X1
                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

PART I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for the 1P0X1, Aircrew Flight Equipment
Specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and instill rigor in all
aspects of career field education and training. To read, review, or print a copy of the current
CFETP, go to the Air Force Publications website at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

NOTE: All Aircrew Flight Equipment (1P0X1) Technicians in the grades of AB through SMSgt
performing duties at the wing level or below will have and maintain an STS to track their
individual qualifications and training. Furthermore, Civil Service/Contractor equivalents
occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two main parts; supervisors use both parts to plan, manage, and control
training.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, etc.). Section
D indicates resource constraints to accomplish this plan, such as funds, manpower, equipment, and
facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements to support career field
restructures.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A contains the course objective list and training
standards supervisors will use to determine if Airmen have satisfied training requirements.
Section B identifies available support materials, such as Qualification Training Package (QTP)
which may be developed to support proficiency training. Section C contains a training course
index supervisors can use to determine if resources are available to support training. Included here
are both mandatory and optional courses. Section D identifies MAJCOM unique training
requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the associated
qualification needs. Section E identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes
duties, tasks, and technical references to support training; Air Education and Training Command
(AETC) conducted training, wartime course requirements, core tasks, and correspondence course
requirements. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct
training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to
train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs.


                                                   2
                                                                          CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). The Air Force focal point for the designated career field
within a functional community. Serves as the primary advocate for the career field, addressing issues and
coordinating functional concerns across various staffs. Responsible for the career field policy and
guidance.

Air Force Specialty (AFS). A group of positions with the same title and code that require common
qualifications.

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one or more
positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in
the career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.

Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD). These directories contain the official
specialty descriptions for all military classification codes and identifiers which are used to identify
each Air Force job (valid requirement) and describe the minimum mandatory qualifications of
personnel to fill these jobs. These standards are used to procure, classify, and employ personnel;
to develop career programs for initial training, retraining, and skill upgrade; and to structure unit
manpower document (UMD) positions.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular
job type or duty position. Supervisors use this to document task qualifications. The tasks on an AFJQS
are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive, multipurpose
document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines a logical
growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career field training identifiable, to
eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget defensible.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Certifying Official. A person whom the commander assigns to determine an individual’s ability to
perform a task to required standards.

Combat Control Team (CCT). Provides long range command and control, conduct assault zone
operations, landing/drop zone surveys, infiltrate by most feasible means land, sea, or air while attached to
sister service direct action units, and work as complete stand alone units at times.

Continuation Training. Additional training that exceeds requirements with emphasis on present or
future duty assignments.

Contract Training. Type 1 training that receives the same priority funding as Air Force directed training.
It supports initial groups of instructors, operators, etc., that the Air Force requires for new or modified
weapon systems.




                                                      3
                                                                          CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014


Core Task. A task Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFMs) identify as a minimum qualification
requirement within an Air Force specialty regardless of duty position. Core tasks identified with an */R
are optional for ANG.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements and
respective standards provided to achieve a 3-/5-/7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL
to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training
Program.

Course Training Standard (CTS). Training standard that identifies the training members will receive in
a specific course not covered in the CFETP.

Duty Position Tasks. Tasks assigned to an individual to be qualified for the position currently held.
These include as a minimum all core tasks that correspond to the duty position as directed by the AFCFM
or MFM, and tasks assigned by the supervisor.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training
(on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other
necessary means to supplement training.

Functional Manager (FM). Senior leaders, designated by the appropriate functional authority (FA), who
provide day-to-day management responsibility over specific functional communities at the MAJCOM,
FOA, DRU, or ARC level. While they should maintain an institutional focus in regards to resource
development and distribution, FMs are responsible for ensuring their specialties are equipped, developed,
and sustained to meet the functional community’s mission as well as encourage force development
opportunities in order to meet future needs of the total Air Force mission.

FAA Senior/Master Rigger Certification. CCT & Guardian Angel units utilizing dissimilar parachutes
(Military Javelin, SOV & Tandem systems) require the reserve parachute to be packed and sealed by an
FAA certified rigger when jumped on civilian drop zones.

Go. “Go” means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local demands
for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures. The stage at which a trainee has gained
enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform the tasks without supervision. Meeting the task
standard. (“Go” level equates to 3c in the STS proficiency code key).

Guardian Angel. Weapon system encompassing survival, evasion, resistance, escape (SERE), combat
rescue officer (CRO) & pararescue (PJ) personnel.

Initial Skills Training (IST). A formal resident course resulting in the award of a 3-skill level AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly process for developing, validating,
and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge and skills essential
for successful job performance.


                                                     4
                                                                         CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014



Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS (as a minimum). Should include
tasks required for deployment and/or UTC requirements. Check AFI 36-2201.

Mobile Training Team (Type 7) (MTT). Technical training conducted at operational locations by a
mobile training team.

MAJCOM Mandatory Course Listing (MMCL). Identifies mandatory training requirements for initial
technical school graduates, retrainees, and personnel with no experience on assigned mission design series
(MDS) aircraft. It also ensures personnel receive training commensurate to their current duty position.

Master Task List (MTL). A comprehensive list (100%) of all tasks performed within a work center and
consisting of the current CFETP or AFJQS and locally developed AF IMTs 797.

Master Training Plan. Employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all work center job
requirements by using a MTL and provides milestones for task, career development course completion,
and prioritizes deployment/UTC, home station training tasks, upgrade, and qualification tasks.

No Go. Trainee has not gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform task without
supervision. Does not meet task standard.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, “over-the-shoulder” training conducted to certify personnel in
both upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (position certification training).

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to
do the job.

Specialty Training. The total training process used to qualify airmen in their assigned specialty.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an airman may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. It serves as a contract between Air Education and Training Command and the functional
user to show which of the overall training requirements for an Air Force Specialty are taught in
formal schools, career development courses, and exportable courses.

Training Business Area (TBA). This is a Net-Centric, GSSS-AF IF web-based application
providing Air Force Warfighters with global, real-time visibility into the technical qualifications,
certifications, and training status of logistics, communications and information professionals Air
Force-wide. TBA supports base, wing, and work center level training management activities by
automating training management business processes. The primary users of TBA will be any



                                                     5
                                                                      CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

personnel directly involved in base level training management and certification activities. TBA is
serviced and maintained at Maxwell-Gunter AFB.

Training by Other Government Agencies (Type 5). This training includes training conducted
by the Army, Navy, Air Force agency or unit other than AETC, and other government agencies
inside or outside of the Department of Defense (DoD).

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-
the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, and CDCs
required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill level.

Trainer. A trained and qualified person who teaches personnel to perform specific tasks through OJT
methods. Also, equipment that the trainer uses to teach personnel specified tasks.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum, co-chaired by the AFCFM, Training
Pipeline Manager, MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional managers, Subject
Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel that determines career ladder training
requirements.

Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). A United States Air Force program that
determines who will be promoted to the ranks of Staff Sergeant (E-5) through Chief Master
Sergeant (E-9) and provides feedback score sheets to enlisted members considered for promotion.
These score sheets help the individual determine professional development needs.

Web Site Links

 AU/A4L                http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/
 CCAF                  http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/
 ETCA                  https://www.my.af.mil/etcacourses/default1.asp
 HQ USAF/A3O-AI        https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-OP-AF-61/default.aspx
 361 TRS               https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                       af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId=s6925EC1349430FB5E044080020E329A
                       9
 367 TRS/TRSS          https://367trss.hill.af.mil/IMI.html
 982 MXS/TST           https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
 (ITU)                 af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId=s6925EC1353200FB5E044080020E329A
                       9




                                                  6
                                                                       CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014


Section A - General Information

1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides information necessary for Air Force Career
Field Managers (AFCFMs), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders, training
managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career field
training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in AFSC 1P0X1 should receive
to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade,
qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training
an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for
award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training is conducted by AETC at one or more of the
technical training centers. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification
requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 5-, 7-, and 9-
skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to
qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after
the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required
to do the job. Advanced training is formal training that provides individuals who are qualified in
one or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to
enhance their expertise in the career field. Supplemental training is either in-residence or
exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job training. The CFETP has several purposes,
some are:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual's career.

1.2. Identifies tasks and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual's career.

1.3. Lists training courses that are available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the
training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints which impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.

2. Use of the CFETP. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, and exportable
training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the
CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining
resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable
courses can be used to satisfy the identified requirements. MAJCOM-developed training to
support this AFS must be identified for inclusion into the plan.


                                                   7
                                                                       CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014


2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The list of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority.
MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career
field training requirements. The AETC training manager for 1P0X1 will initiate an annual review
of this document by AETC and MFMs to ensure currency and accuracy. Using the list of courses
in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

SECTION B - Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Description.

4.1. Manages, performs, and schedules inspections, maintenance, and adjustments of assigned
aircrew flight equipment (AFE), aircrew chemical defense equipment (ACDE), associated
supplies, and inventories assets. Prepares, maintains, and monitors AFE operations.
Disassembles, assembles, inspects, fabricates, cleans, repairs, and packs aerospace weapon system
components such as protective clothing, flotation equipment, emergency evacuation systems, and
recovery/personnel parachutes. Performs repairs on cargo parachutes. Schedules, supervises, and
conducts aircrew chemical defense and aircrew continuation training. Prepares for response to use
of chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear weapons contamination and supervises and
conducts contamination control area processing. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 186000.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities:

4.2.1. Inspects, maintains, packs and adjusts aircrew flight equipment such as flight helmets,
oxygen masks, parachutes, flotation devices, survival kits, helmet mounted devices, aircrew night
vision and other ocular systems, anti-G garments, aircrew eye and respiratory protective
equipment, chemical biological protective oxygen masks and coveralls, and other types of AFE
and aircrew chemical defense systems. Repairs fabric and rubber components including protective
clothing, thermal radiation barriers, flotation equipment, and various parachutes. Evaluates
problems and determines feasibility of repair or replacement related to inspecting and repairing
fabric, rubber equipment, and parachutes. Evaluates work orders for fabrication of authorized
items.

4.2.2. Installs and removes aircraft AFE. Uses various types of test equipment such as altimeters,
oxygen testers, leakage testers, radio testers, and other types of testers to conduct reliability testing
on AFE and ACDE. Maintains inspection and accountability documentation on AFE issued to
aircrews or pre-positioned on aircraft.

4.2.3. Operates, maintains, and inspects AFE machinery, test equipment, and tools. Performs
operator maintenance and service inspections on shop equipment. Stores, handles, uses, and
disposes of hazardous waste and materials based on environmental standards.




                                                    8
                                                                   CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014


4.2.4. Controls, issues, and safeguards aircrew side arms and ammunition. Maintains applicable
weapons qualification. Operates aircrew armories and inspects aircrew side arms as required.
Ensures proper safety procedures are followed.

4.2.5. Requisitions, stores, forecasts, handles, and transports ammunition, aircrew survival
pyrotechnic devices, and other explosives such as cartridge/propelled actuated devices and
signaling devices.

4.2.6. Conducts aircrew continuation training; instructs aircrews on equipment use, operation, and
capabilities. Conducts aircrew chemical defense equipment training; instructs aircrew on ACDE
donning, doffing, and decontaminating/mitigating procedures. Provides or assists in training
aircrew techniques such as evasion procedures, emergency egress, post ejection/bailout descent
procedures, combat survival procedures, environmental hazards, and other survival actions.

4.2.7. Plans, directs, organizes, and evaluates AFE operational aspects such as equipment
accountability, personnel reliability, mobility readiness, and other activities necessary to meet
operational readiness. Maintains associated databases to ensure equipment accountability.
Establishes performance standards, improves work methods, and advises on inspection, repair, and
repack of aircrew flight equipment. Ensures serviceability based on required specifications and
technical publications. Evaluates problems and determines feasibility of repair or replacement
related to inspecting and repairing fabric, rubber equipment, and parachutes.

4.2.8. Prepares checklists and operating instructions for AFE activities. Develops lesson plans for
aircrew training, safety, and other required programs. Assigns, trains, and prepares AFE personnel
for deployment. Procures, maintains, stores, and prepares equipment for deployment. Inputs,
maintains, and reviews data for status of resources and training system (SORTS). Determines
facilities, funding, and mobility of AFE assets to support unit taskings. Develops and submits
budget requirements. Requisitions AFE and supplies. Maintains custodial files for accounts such
as supply and equipment, munitions, and test, measurement and diagnostic equipment. Obtains
assistance from other agencies to support AFE.

4.2.9. Manages unit and staff agency AFE programs. Provides unit and staff agency assistance to
subordinate units to ensure AFE planning and training have been accomplished, and AFE
directives are being followed. Analyzes training and deficiencies preventing accomplishment of
wartime tasks. Conducts quality assurance inspections to ensure compliance with policies and
directives. Identifies and documents equipment and personnel training discrepancies and
recommends corrective action. Evaluates and critiques AFE instructors' effectiveness, and ensures
presentations are accurate and current. Advises and assists agencies whose functions affect AFE
activities. Evaluates data involving equipment development and sustainment and resolves AFE
problems. Conducts aircraft mishap safety investigations and analysis where AFE is involved.

4.2.10. Establishes, coordinates, and distributes exposure and contamination control procedures.
Monitors associated requirements and procedures. Ensures assigned personnel take safety
precautions. Prepares wartime and contingency response plans. Coordinates actions to ensure
prompt response to enable and sustain operations in a chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear
environment with minimal degradation of combat capability. Coordinates actions to continue or


                                                 9
                                                                      CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

restore vital functions and operations. Prepares AFE annexes, appendices, supplements, and other
supporting documents to support operations plans. Serves in survival recovery center; advises
leadership on mission impact and recovery activities following an attack; coordinates aircrew
contamination control area requirements. Supervises contamination control operations teams.

5. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice
to the superintendent skill level plays an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do his or her part to plan, develop,
manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the
CFETP will ensure individuals receive the necessary training at appropriate points in their career.
The following narrative and AFSC 1P0X1 career field table identify the skill/career progression.

5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Following Basic Military Training, initial skills training is provided
in a 3-level (apprentice) resident course taught at the 82d Training Group, 361st Training
Squadron, Sheppard Air Force Base, Texas. Training provided in this course is determined by the
results from the Aircrew Flight Equipment Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). During
the U&TW, subject matter experts use their extensive knowledge and experience and data
provided by the Occupational Analysis Report (OAR) to determine course content. Task and
knowledge training requirements are identified in Attachment 2 of the CFETP (STS). Upon
completion of this initial-skills course, graduates are awarded the 3-skill level (AFSC 1P031).
The course provides a foundation for additional training at the graduates’ first duty assignment
where trainees work with a trainer to increase knowledge and skills. Trainees utilize career
development courses (CDC), task qualification training, and other exportable courses to progress
in their career field. Once trainees have been task certified, they may perform the task
unsupervised.

5.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Upgrade training to the 5-skill level includes task and knowledge
training. After award of the 3-skill level, trainees are enrolled in the Aircrew Flight Equipment
Journeyman (5-level) CDC. Additionally, trainees must complete 5-skill level upgrade training
requirements (core tasks & duty position tasks) identified in the STS. Once upgraded to the 5-skill
level, trainees enter into continuation training to broaden their experience base by increasing their
knowledge and skills in troubleshooting and solving more complex problems. Five-levels may be
assigned job positions such as quality assurance and various staff positions. After having at least
48 months in the Air Force, 5-levels should attend Airman Leadership School (ALS) to enhance
their Professional Military Education (PME). Five-levels will be considered for appointment as
unit trainers. Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for Weighted Airman Promotion System
(WAPS) testing. They should also consider continuing their education toward a Community
College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree.

5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. For award of the 7-skill level, an individual must successfully
complete all required 7-level training identified in this CFETP and meet 7-level minimum upgrade
requirements (AFI 36-2201 and Enlisted Classification Directory). Completion of CDC 1P071 is
part of the required 7-level upgrade training. A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory
and management positions such as shift leader, element NCOIC, flight superintendent, and various
staff positions. Craftsmen should take courses or obtain added knowledge of management of
resources and personnel. Exportable Mission Design Series (MDS) specific courses and
MAJCOM/unit directed courses are also available. Continued academic education through CCAF


                                                  10
                                                                     CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

and higher degree programs, especially in resources and personnel management, is encouraged. In
addition, when promoted to TSgt, individuals will attend the Noncommissioned Officer Academy
(NCOA). TSgt’s should enroll in the Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA) correspondence course to
further their professional development. MSgt's will also attend SNCOA, in-residence, prior to
promotion to the rank of SMSgt. (Optional for Air Reserve Component (ARC)).

5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. For award of the 9-skill level, individuals must hold the rank of
SMSgt. A 9-level can expect to fill positions such as flight chief, superintendent, and various staff
NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower, resources, and personnel
management should be pursued through continuing education. In-residence attendance at the
SNCOA prior to promotion to the rank of SMSgt is mandatory (Optional for Air Reserve
Component (ARC)). Additional higher education and completion of courses outside their career
AFS is also recommended.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Aircrew Flight Equipment career
field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training
requirements. The strategy must ensure we develop affordable training, eliminate duplication, and
prevent a fragmented approach to training. The following training decisions were based on career
field utilization and training workshop (U&TW) held at Sheppard Air Force Base, TX, from 6-10
December 2010.

6.1. Initial Skills. The apprentice course is 56 days in length. The course will encompass the Air
Force technical order system, material/condition tags, ALSET, SCOT Release Tester, G-Force
fundamentals, Aircrew CBRN Protection fundamentals, CSEL AN/PRQ-7 Series Radios,
Parachute/Torso harness removal and installation, SCOT Release inspect, removal, and
installation, URT-44’s, ML-4 Fundamentals of inspection and packing and Survival components
fundamentals. Additional topics addressed include protective equipment, emergency electronic
communication equipment, night vision imaging systems, fabric items, sewing, life preservers, life
rafts, survival kits, back automatic parachute, and the ACES II recovery parachute.

6.2. Five Level Upgrade Requirements. The 5-level CDC will be five volumes. The number of
core tasks will be determined by the aircraft type being supported (see attachment 3). Each
technician will be qualified from "tip to tail" on one weapons system for award of the 5-level.

6.3. Seven Level Upgrade Requirements. The 7-level CDC will be two volumes. There will be
twenty-eight (28) 7-level core tasks.

6.4. Supplemental Courses. The U.S. Army will continue to provide MC-6 training. It was
decided to continue the in-resident Ram Air and Static Line Parachute Systems courses until the
MTT versions are finalized. The Life Sciences Equipment Investigation course will continue
training at Sheppard until the new course location is stood up at Dyess.

6.5. Continuation Training. None

7. Community College of the Air Force. Upon completion of basic military training, all enlisted
personnel are registered in a CCAF degree program and are afforded the opportunity to obtain an


                                                 11
                                                                                                      CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

Associate in Applied Science Degree. In addition to its associate’s degree program, CCAF offers
the following:

7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. The Community College of the Air Force offers the
Occupational Instructor Certification (OIC) for qualified fulltime instructors teaching at CCAF
affiliated schools. Upon completion of CCAF instructor qualification training, consisting of the
Basic Instructor Course (BIC) and Teaching Internship, instructors who possess an associate’s
degree or higher and at least 2 years teaching experience may be nominated by the affiliated
school commander for certification.

7.2. Instructor of Technology The Community College of the Air Force offers the Instructor of
Technology degree for qualified fulltime instructors teaching at CCAF affiliated schools. The
instructor must complete their AFSC related degree, have at least 2 years teaching experience, and
complete a 3 semester hour methodology course and teaching practicum.

7.3. Degree Requirements: All Airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Prior to
completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following requirements must be
met:
                                                                                                                         Semester Hours
Technical Education .............................................................................................................. 24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies .................................................................... 6
Physical Education ................................................................................................................ 4
General Education. ................................................................................................................ 15
Program Elective ................................................................................................................... 15
      (Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
        Studies; or General Education)
Total ...................................................................................................................................... 64

7.3.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): Completion of the J3ABR1P031 Aircrew
Flight Equipment Apprentice course satisfies some semester hours of the technical education
requirements. A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical Core subjects/courses must be
applied and the remaining semester hours applied from Technical Core/Technical Elective
courses.

7.3.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional military
education and/or civilian management courses.

7.3.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of Basic
Military Training.

7.3.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with the
definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.


7.3.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects and courses, including


                                                                         12
                                                                           CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree-applicable
technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the CCAF General Catalog
for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.4. Other Certification Programs. CCAF is actively pursuing other license and certification
opportunities related to specific career fields such as FAA certification programs. To learn more about
other certification opportunities visit CCAF’s website at
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.

7.5. AETC Instructor Requirements: Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is
encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become an AETC Instructor should be actively pursuing an
associate's degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association
of Colleges and Schools.

7.6. To learn more about CCAF and what CCAF has to offer to assist you in your career
development, visit their website at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/.




                                                      13
                                                                             CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

8. Career Field Path. NOTE: For the latest information, go to MyDP at:
https://w20.afpc.randolph.af.mil/MYXDP/UserPages/CareerPathEnlisted.aspx
8.1. Enlisted Career Path.

                                         Table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path
                                                                         Grade Requirements
Education and Training Requirements                                    Average Sew- Earliest         High Year Of
                                                            Rank
                                                                            On       Sew-On          Tenure (HYT)
Basic Military Training School                               AB
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)                  Amn          6 months
                                                             A1C         10 months
Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                        Amn
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.
- Minimum 9 months on-the-job training for                   A1C         10 months
retrainees.
- Complete all 5-skill level MDS core tasks.
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available                  SrA         3 years       28 months      8 years
Airman Leadership School                                  Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service or         - Qualified and certified to perform the task to be
   be a SSgt selectee.                                      trained.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt sew-     - Must attend the Air Force Training Course.
    on (Active Duty Only).                                - Recommended by the supervisor

Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                         SSgt         4.7 years       3 years       15 years
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training as a SSgt.
- Minimum 6 months on-the-job training as a SSgt
  for retrainees.
- Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks on one
  mission design aircraft.
- Complete applicable CDC.
                                                          Certifier
                                                          - Possess at least a SSgt with a 5-skill level or civilian
                                                            equivalent.
                                                          - Must attend AF Training Course.
                                                          - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs,
                                                            duty positions, units, and/or work centers with
                                                            specialized training standardization and certification
                                                            requirements.
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)                        TSgt        11.4 years      5 years        20 years
- Must be a TSgt, MSgt Selectee, or MSgt
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt sew-       MSgt          14.9 years      8 years       24 years
  on (Active Duty Only).
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                             SMSgt         18.8 years     11 years       26 years
- Must be a MSgt, SMSgt, or SMSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SMSgt
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)                               CMSgt          23.3 years     14 years       30 years



                                                     14
                                                                            CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

8.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist:

  Requirements for Upgrade to:                                                                     Y    N
  Journeyman. Has the apprentice:
  - completed mandatory CDCs?
  - completed all appropriate 5-level core tasks identified in the CFETP?
  - completed all 5-level duty tasks identified in attachment 3 of the CFETP and the master
    training plan?
  - completed 12 months training (9 months for retrainees) for award of the 5-skill level?
  - met mandatory requirements listed in specialty description Air Force Enlisted Classification
    Directory (AFECD) and the CFETP?
  - been recommended by their supervisor?
  Craftsman. Has the journeyman:
  - achieved the rank of SSgt?
  - completed all 5- and 7-level core tasks identified in the CFETP?
  - completed a minimum 12 months (6 months for retrainees) UGT for award of the 7-skill
   level?



8.3. Link to AF Form 2096:

   http://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/af_a1/form/af2096/af2096.xfdl


   Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

   9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in the 1P0X1 career field are defined in terms of
   tasks and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements
   for each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry,
   award, and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements
   are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections B and E of this CFETP.

   10. Specialty Requirements:

   10.1. Apprentice Level Training:

   10.1.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
   in the most current AF Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD).

   10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: AFE inspection and maintenance procedures;
   parachute construction; temperature and humidity affects on parachutes and other fabrics;
   characteristics of rubberized items; solvent, heat, and pressure affects on rubber; proper handling,
   use, and disposal of hazardous waste, materials, and pyrotechnics; aircrew flight and chemical
   defense equipment inspections, fitting, and maintenance procedures; supply procedures; principles
   of contamination control; related technical information, policies, procedures, techniques, and
   equipment; contingency planning, training, operations, equipment supply procedures, directives
   and policy; and conducting aircrew continuation and aircrew chemical defense training.




                                                       15
                                                                   CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
speech, general science, shop mechanics, and basic computer applications is desirable.

10.1.1.3. Training. Completion of the AFE apprentice course at Sheppard AFB, TX is
mandatory for award of AFSC 1P031.

10.1.1.4. Experience. None.

10.1.1.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:

10.1.1.5.1. For entry into this specialty:

10.1.1.5.1.1. Qualification to operate a government vehicle according to AFI 24-301, Vehicle
Operations, is mandatory for entry into this specialty.

10.1.1.5.1.2. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
Standards.

10.1.1.5.2. For entry, award and retention of this specialty:

10.1.1.5.2.1. Ability to speak clearly and distinctly.

10.1.1.5.2.2. Visual acuity correctable to 20/20.

10.1.1.5.2.3. No record of claustrophobia or claustrophobic tendencies.

10.1.1.5.2.4. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment. For
award and retention of AFSC 1P0X1, completion of a current National Agency Check, Local
Agency Checks and Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program
Management.

NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level without a completed NACLC is authorized provided an interim
NACLC has been granted according to AFI 31-501.

10.1.1.5.2.5. For retention of AFSCs 1P0XX, qualification to bear firearms according to AFI 31-
207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel.

10.1.1.5.2.6. For award and retention of AFSCs 1P051/71/91/00, must maintain an Air Force
Network License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying
Network Professionals.

10.1.1.5.2.7. See AFECD, Attachment 4, for additional entry requirements.

10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. The course will encompass the Air Force technical
order system, material/condition tags, ALSET, SCOT Release Tester, G-Force fundamentals,
Aircrew CBRN Protection fundamentals, CSEL AN/PRQ-7 Series Radios, Parachute/Torso
harness removal and installation, SCOT Release inspect, removal, and installation, URT-44’s,


                                                    16
                                                                     CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

ML-4 Fundamentals of inspection and packing and Survival components fundamentals.
Additional topics addressed include protective equipment, emergency electronic communication
equipment, night vision imaging systems, fabric items, sewing, life preservers, life rafts, survival
kits, back automatic parachute, and the ACES II recovery parachute.

10.1.3. Implementation. Entry into this training is accomplished through initial accessions from
Basic Military Training (BMT) or through retraining from any AFSC. After graduation from
course J3ABR1P031 048C, initial qualification training starts when an individual is assigned to
their first duty position. Thereafter, upgrade training is initiated anytime an individual is assigned
duties they are not qualified to perform. Retraining into AFSC 1P0X1 may be accomplished via
OJT alone only when approved by the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) or Air Reserve
Component (ARC) Career Field Functional Manager. Personnel retraining via OJT may be
awarded 3-skill level when the following are met: complete knowledge training on all tasks taught
in the initial skills course, complete duty position requirements identified by the supervisor and all
other mandatory requirements. Ensure AFE personnel are trained and certified IAW AFI 11-301
Volume 1, Chapter 4. Additionally, ensure personnel with special/unique training are assigned to
duty positions maximizing those qualifications (i.e., premeditated personnel parachute
inspection/packing, pararescue equipment maintenance, etc.). Movement of these personnel
should be kept to a minimum necessary to ensure continuity and return of time and funds spent on
training and qualification of these individuals.


10.2. Journeyman Level Training:

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification. All qualifications for AFSC 1P031 apply to AFSC 1P051 as
well as experience in equipment inspections and instructing aircrews in continuation training and
aircrew chemical defense procedures.

10.2.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the knowledge required for the 3-skill level and other
qualifications as listed above, knowledge is mandatory of: Aircrew Chemical, Biological,
Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) operations; operation and maintenance of AFE; installation
and removal of aircraft-installed AFE; supply procedures; and conducting AFE continuation
training (if recommended by supervisor) within the AFE Specialty.

10.2.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the apprentice level (see paragraph 10.1.1.2). However, completion of a CCAF degree is highly
recommended.

10.2.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 1P051, the 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge
training required. Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the
core tasks identified in the STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current knowledge
base, and provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements. A minimum of 12
months on-the-job training (see table 8.1), completion of the 1P051 CDC and 5-level core tasks
(exception: core tasks not related to duty position and waived by AFE Superintendent) represent
the resources needed for award of the 5-skill level.




                                                  17
                                                                    CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

10.2.1.4. Experience. All qualifications for AFSC 1P031 apply to AFSC 1P051 as well as
experience in equipment inspections, and instructing aircrews in continuation training and aircrew
chemical defense procedures.

10.2.1.5. Other. See paragraph 10.1.1.5.2.

10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. The STS identifies all core tasks required for
qualification.

10.2.3. Implementation. Training to the 5-level is performed by the units utilizing this STS,
exportable courses, and CDC. Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of the 1P051 CDCs,
completion of all core tasks and duty position tasks (see attachment 3) on one MDS aircraft, and
12 months upgrade training. Individuals in retraining status (Training Status Code (TSC) ‘F’), are
subject to the same training requirements and must complete a minimum of 9 months in UGT.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training.

10.3.1. Specialty Qualification. All qualifications for AFSC 1P051 apply to AFSC 1P071. Also
required are experience supervising and performing functions such as inspections, quality
assurance, specialist training programs, and aircrew instruction.

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the knowledge required for the 5-skill level and other
qualifications as listed above, an individual must possess the knowledge of personnel supervision,
equipment and quality assurance inspections, specialist training programs, AFE continuation and
aircrew chemical defense training; contingency planning, mobility readiness, training operations,
equipment supply procedures, forecasting and budgeting procedures, directives and policy
preparation, and conducting AFE continuation and aircrew chemical defense training classes.

10.3.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the journeyman level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is highly recommended.

10.3.1.3. Training. Completion of 1P071 CDC, 7-level core tasks (exception: core tasks not
related to duty position and waived by AFE Superintendent) and 12 months in UGT (6 months for
retrainees (Training Status Code (TSC) ‘G’)) are mandatory for upgrade to 1P071.

10.3.1.4. Experience. Possession of AFSC 1P051, and experience supervising and performing
functions such as inspections, quality assurance, specialist training programs, and aircrew
instruction.

10.3.1.5. Other. See paragraph 10.1.1.5.2.

10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. A minimum of 12 months on the job training (see
table 8.1), completion of the 1P071 CDC and 7-level core tasks represent the resources needed for
award of the 7-skill level. Supervisor certification of Air Force directed core tasks represents the
resources required for award of the 7-skill level.




                                                 18
                                                                   CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

10.3.3. Implementation. Upgrade to the 7-level will require completion of all AF core tasks, 12
months OJT (see table 8.1), completion of the 7-level CDC. Completion of AF core tasks, 7-level
CDC, and 12 months OJT as a SSgt (6 months for retrainees (Training Status Code (TSC) ‘G’)).

10.4. Superintendent Level Training.

10.4.1. Specialty Qualification. All qualifications for AFSC 1P071 apply to AFSC 1P091.
Also, experience managing and directing AFE operations and training functions as well as
evaluating, planning, and organizing AFE readiness activities.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the knowledge required for the 7-skill level, an individual
must possess the knowledge of characteristics and identification of aerospace and non-aerospace
materials; concepts and application of maintenance directives; maintenance data reporting; and
proper handling, storage, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and materials; AFE operations
management and AFE training functions; evaluation, planning and organizing AFE activities; and
readiness activities supervision and organization. Also, conduct staff assistance visits, evaluate
AFE continuation training programs, conduct mishap safety investigations, and manage aircrew
contamination control areas.

10.4.1.2. Education. There is no additional education requirements beyond those defined for the
craftsman level.

10.4.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 1P091, promotion to SMSgt is mandatory.

10.4.1.4. Experience. Possession of AFSC 1P071. Also, experience managing and directing
AFE operations and training functions as well as evaluating, planning, and organizing AFE
readiness activities.

10.4.1.5. Other. See paragraph 10.1.1.5.2.

10.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. Duty position qualification represents the required
resources for upgrade to the 9-level.

10.4.3. Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded after promotion to SMSgt and completion
of MAJCOM unique requirements and unit OJT.

Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect
each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions required,
office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a
minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

11.1. Resource Constraints. None



                                                19
                                                                 CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

Section E - Transitional Training Guide.

12. 3-Skill Level: Airmen will be awarded the 1P0X1 3-skill level upon completion of the
J3ABR1P031 048C initial skills course located at 361 TRS, Sheppard AFB, TX.

13. 5-Skill Level: Airmen will enter upgrade training and complete 1P051 CDC, core and duty
position tasks, complete 12 months on-the-job training, and have the recommendation of their
supervisor and commander for the award of the 5-skill level.

14. 7-Skill Level: Airmen will enter upgrade training and complete 1P071 CDC, core and duty
position tasks, complete 12 months OJT as a SSgt (6 months for retrainees (Training Status Code
(TSC) ‘G’)), and have the recommendation of their supervisor and commander for the award of
the 7-skill level.




                                               20
                                                                   CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

PART II

Section A - Course Objective List

1. Measurement. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical
school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the
student so he or she knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each
task. Each objective is comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard that states what is
expected of the student for each task. The condition is the setting in which the training takes
place. The behavior is the action a student must demonstrate to accomplish a task (i.e. Inspect and
repack a parachute assembly). The standard is the level of performance that is measured to ensure
the STS proficiency level is attained. Each objective uses letter code(s) to identify how it is
measured. All objectives use the Progress Check (PC) code that indicates a progress check is used
to measure subject or task knowledge. Progress checks are also used to measure student
accomplishment of performance objectives. “W” indicates a comprehensive written test and is
used to measure the subject and/or task knowledge at the end of a block of instruction. PC/W
indicates separate measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a written test
and a performance progress check.

2. Standard. The minimum standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for
performance measurement are identified in the objective and delineated on the individual progress
checklist. The instructor will document each student’s progress on each task using the checklist.
Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and students may be
required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained. Students
must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to taking the written test.

3. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a
particular task or knowledge item. Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section E of this
CFETP for an explanation of the proficiency codes. Review the course objective list to determine
which STS item the objective supports. Most task performance is taught to the "2b" proficiency
level. The "2b" means the student can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the
hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step
procedures for doing the task. The student should be able to identify why and when the task must
be done and why each step is needed.

4. Course Objectives. If you require detailed course descriptions and objectives, please provide
a written request to the attention of the AFE Training Manager, 361 TRS/TRR, 501 Missile Road,
Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2264.

Section B - Support Material

5. Support material is any training package designed to enhance the learning process at any level
of training. Refer to Air Force Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) for
information on AETC formal courses. ETCA can be accessed at https://etca.randolph.af.mil.




                                                21
                                                                     CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014


Section C - Training Course Index

6. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the 1P0X1
Aircrew Flight Equipment Specialty and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in
their career field training programs. This index lists Air Force resident, AU/A4L, and exportable
courses used to support training for this specialty. Refer to the Air Force Education and Training
Course Announcements (ETCA) for information on AETC formal courses listed below
https://etca.randolph.af.mil. For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR at:

        361 TRS/TRR
        501 Missile Road
        Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2264
        DSN 736-3684 or 736-3539

7. Air Force In-Resident Courses.

  COURSE NUMBER                    COURSE TITLE                     LOCATION               USER
                        High Reliability Soldering and
E3AZR3DXXX 00DA                                                 Keesler AFB, MS       AF/ANG/AFRC
                        Connections
J3ABR1P031 048C         Aircrew Flight Equipment Apprentice     Sheppard AFB, TX      AF/ANG/AFRC
                                                                Fort Leonard Wood,
JCAZP3E971 01AA         Advanced Emergency Management                                 AF/ANG/AFRC
                                                                MO
J3AZR1P051 0M1A         Static Line Parachute Systems (MC-1)    Sheppard AFB, TX      AF/ANG/AFRC
J3AZR1P051 0R1A         Ram Air Parachute Systems               Sheppard AFB, TX      AF/ANG/AFRC
J3AZRTXXXX0P1A          Principles of Instruction (POI)         Sheppard AFB, TX      AF/ANG/AFRC
J3AZR1P071 0L1A         Life Sciences Equipment Investigation   Sheppard AFB, TX      AF/ANG/AFRC
L9AZA1XXXX 0A1A         Airborne Parachutist Course             Fort Benning, GA      AF/ANG/AFRC
                        Military Freefall Parachutist           Yuma Proving
L9AQA1XXXX 0F1A                                                                       AF/ANG/AFRC
                        (MFF-PJ Students)                       Ground, AZ
                        Military Freefall Parachutist Course    Yuma Proving
L9AZA1XXXX 0F1A                                                                       AF/ANG/AFRC
                        (CCT AD/CCT/PJ ANG/PJ RES)              Ground, AZ
                        Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and
S-V80-A                                                         Fairchild AFB, WA     AF/ANG/AFRC
                        Escape (SERE) Training
                        USAF Underwater Egress Training
S-V84-A                                                         Fairchild AFB, WA     AF/ANG/AFRC
                        (UET)
S-V86-A                 Water Survival School - Parachuting     Pensacola NAS, FL     AF/ANG/AFRC
S-V87-A                 Arctic Survival Training                Eielson AFB, AK       AF/ANG/AFRC
S-V90-A                 Water Survival, Non-parachuting         Fairchild AFB, WA     AF/ANG/AFRC
                        NVD Instructor Course                   Randolph AFB, TX      12 ADS/SGGT
Civilian Rigger         FAA Senior Course                       Local                 AF/ANG/AFRC
Civilian Rigger         FAA Master Course                       Local                 AF/ANG AFRC
MCADRE002               Contingency Wartime Planning Course     Maxwell AFB, AL       AF/ANG/AFRC




                                                 22
                                                                  CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

8. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AU/A4L) Courses.

    COURSE NUMBER                           COURSE TITLE                          USER
CDC 1P051                      Aircrew Flight Equipment Journeyman            AF/ANG/AFRC
CDC 1P071                      Aircrew Flight Equipment Craftsman             AF/ANG/AFRC
Note: Online CDC courses for study purpose can be found on the Air University website at
https://au.csd.disa.mil/kc/main/kc_frame.asp?blnWhatsNew=True.


9. Exportable Courses.

COURSE NUMBER               COURSE TITLE                             OPR            USER
J6AZWXXXXX 0G1A General Technical Order System                    362 TRS       AF/ANG/AFRC
J6AZWXXXXX 0A1A Advanced Technical Order System                   362 TRS       AF/ANG/AFRC
                Fundamentals of Systems Acquisition
ACQ101                                                            DAU           AF/ANG/AFRC
                Management
CLE062          Human Systems Integration                         DAU           AF/ANG/AFRC
CLM041          Capabilities Based Planning                       DAU           AF/ANG/AFRC
RQM110          Core Concepts for Requirement Mgt                 DAU           AF/ANG/AFRC

For further information on AF technical order exportable courses contact the OPR at:
        362 TRS
        613 10th Ave
        Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
        DSN 736-5206/6184
        https://etca.randolph.af.mil/

Interactive Courseware (ICW) courses are available from or are under development by, 367
TRS/TRSS at Hill AFB, Utah and 982 MXS/TSU at Sheppard AFB, Texas.

For further information contact the OPRs at:

    367 TRSS                                        982 MXS/TSU
    6058 Aspen Ave                                  912 I Ave Ste 4
    Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805                         Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2334
    DSN 777-7830/8741                               DSN 736-3001




10. Mobile Training Team (MTT) Courses:


                                               23
                                                                   CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014


 COURSE NUMBER                    COURSE TITLE                      OPR              USER
J4AMP30000 AS0A         Basic Soldering Techniques               372 TRS         AF/ANG/AFRC

For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR at:
        361 TRS/TRR
        501 Missile Road
        Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2264
        DSN 736-3684

11. MAJCOM Courses.

COURSE NUMBER                  COURSE TITLE                    LOCATION                 USER
                    Aircrew Flight Equipment Program
3J5ACC1P0X1 000                                            Dyess AFB, TX          AF/ANG/AFRC
                    Manager’s Course
                    Aircrew Flight Equipment Deployed
3J5ACC1P0X1 003                                            Dyess AFB, TX          AF/ANG/AFRC
                    Leadership Course
3J5ACC3S200 000     ACC Classroom Instructor Course        Dyess AFB, TX          AF/ANG/AFRC
                                                           USAF EC, Joint Base
                    Introduction to Air Mobility
WBT AMOC                                                   McGuire-Dix-           AF/ANG/AFRC
                    Operations (WBT AMOC)
                                                           Lakehurst, NJ
                                                           USAF EC, Joint Base
                    Advanced Air Mobility Operations
AMC AAMOC                                                  McGuire-Dix-           AF/ANG/AFRC
                    Course (AMC AAMOC)
                                                           Lakehurst, NJ
ANGC ICP            ANG Instructor Certification Program   McGhee Tyson, TN       ANG

Section D - MAJCOM Unique Requirements.

12. There are no MAJCOM Unique Requirements. Attachment 3 is an addendum to the basic
CFETP to provide additional MDS-specific training guidance and to support AFRC’s Seasoning
Training Program.


Section E - Specialty Training Standard

13. Implementation.

13.1. This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education and Training
Command for classes beginning in January 2012. Implementation of J3ABR1P031 048C will be
with class 20120103 which will graduate 22 March 2012 at Sheppard AFB, TX.

13.2. Work center supervisors should tailor records to meet the unit’s needs as long as the intent
of the applicable forms and training program is not compromised. In an effort to reduce local
CFETP printing costs, the following options are authorized: Keep at least one copy of the entire
CFETP (Part I and II) in the work center for general access and master training plan development.
Work center supervisors may file only Part II of the CFETP, with the cover page and identification




                                                   24
                                                                    CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

page, in the individual trainee’s AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder, or equivalent
form.

13.3. Units who have automated training records should ensure a printed copy is available during
mobility processing and deployments to ensure gaining commander and supervisor can determine
personnel qualifications.

14. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program in this STS:

14.1. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF Occupational
Measurement Squadron by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields.
The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team
members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study
references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2502, Airman
Promotion Program. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.

14.2. Lists in the Column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and
7-skill level.

14.3. Column 2 identifies Core Tasks with an asterisk (*) for specialty-wide training
requirements. Core tasks identified with an */R are optional for the ANG. Additional core tasks
not listed in column 2 are listed by type of aircraft supported in Attachment 3. MAJCOM
Functional Managers, commanders, and supervisors may designate additional critical tasks as
necessary. When designated, certify these critical tasks using normal core task certification
procedures. As a minimum, certification on all AFCFM directed core tasks applicable to the
specialty must be completed for skill level upgrade. See AFI36-2201 Waiver requirements.
NOTE: AFE Superintendents must get MFM approval to waive AFCFM directed core tasks.

14.3.1. Units that only use GO81 maintenance data collection system do not need to complete IMDS
Computer Based Training (CBT). This requirement will remain in effect until GO81 and IMDS are
converted to the Maintenance Information System (MIS).

14.4. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document
technician qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification or completed
date.

14.5. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on-the-job by the graduate as result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course.

14.6. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development
courses.



                                                 25
                                                                 CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

14.7. Job Qualification Standard. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job
training when placed in AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder, and used according
to AFI 36-2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no-go level.
"Go" means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements
for accuracy, timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the following requirements
apply:

14.7.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201, Air
Force Training Program, utilizing Training Business Area (TBA), CAMS/G081 reflecting this
STS is highly encouraged. Use of Part I is optional and Part II of this CFETP is mandatory in
individual training records.

14.7.1.1. Converting from Old Document to CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs are
replaced by this CFETP; therefore, conversion of all training records to this CFETP STS is
mandatory. Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current
qualifications. Document and certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.

15. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to the
361 TRS Training Manager at 361 TRS/TRR, 501 Missile Road, Sheppard AFB TX, 76311-2264,
DSN 736-3684 or 676-3539. Reference specific STS paragraphs. A customer service information
line has been installed for the supervisor's convenience to identify graduates who may have
received over or under training on task/knowledge items listed in this training standard. For a
quick response to problems, call our customer service information line, DSN 736-5236 any time,
day or night or e-mail them at 82trgcsil@us.af.mil.

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                       BURTON M. FIELD, Lt Gen, USAF AF/A3/5
                                               Assoc DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirments

3 Attachments
1. Proficiency Code Key
2. Specialty Training Standard (STS)
3. Aircraft Type Specific Requirements




                                               26
                                                                                                         CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

                                               This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                 Initials (Written)                      Last Four of SS#

                                               Printed Name Of Training/Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                        N/I

N/I                                                                        N/I

N/I                                                                        N/I

N/I                                                                        N/I

N/I                                                                        N/I

N/I                                                                        N/I

N/I                                                                        N/I

N/I                                                                        N/I



                                                 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

Proficiency Code Key
                                     Scale
                                             Definition: The individual
                                     Value
                                             Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task.
                                     1
                                             (extremely limited)
Task Performance                     2       Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (partially proficient)
Levels                               3       Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (competent)
                                             Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do
                                     4
                                             the task. (highly proficient)
                                     a       Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (nomenclature)
*Task Knowledge
                                     b       Can determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task. (procedures)
Levels
                                             Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                     c
                                             (operating principles)
                                     d       Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (advanced theory)
                                     A       Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (facts)
**Subject
                                             Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject.
Knowledge                            B
                                             (principles)
Levels
                                     C       Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (analysis)
                                     D       Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a
specific task. (Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any
specific task, or for a subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X - This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

Note: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.



                                                                           27
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 1
                                                 Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                   CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                        2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                     A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                      3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                                Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                                5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                              Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC
              CAREER PROGRESSION AND DUTIES OF
2.1           AFSC 1P0X1 PERSONNEL TR: AFECD;                                                                               -            B           -
              AFI 11-301V1
              AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND
              HEALTH (AFOSH) PROGRAM
              TR: AFOSH STDs 48-8, 48-137, 48-139, 91-
              46, 91-66, 91-68, 91-100, 91-501, 127-56; AFI
2.2
              32-2001, 90-901, 90-821, 91-202, 91-204, 91-
              205, 91-301, 91-302; AFPAM 90-902;
              AFMAN 91-201;
              DoD 6055-9 STD, applicable OSHA standards
2.2.1         Hazards of AFSC 1P0X1                                                                                         -            B           -

2.2.2         Safety Procedures                                                                                             -            B           -
              Initial Air Force Hazardous Communication
2.2.3         Program (AFHCP)                                                                                               -            -           -
              TR: AFI 90-821
2.2.4         Explosive Safety Program

2.2.4.1       Fundamentals                                                                                                  -            A           B

2.2.4.2       Symbols and Markings                                                                                          -            B           -

2.2.4.3       Administer                                                                                                    -            -           B
              Pyrotechnic and/or Explosive Devices
2.2.4.4                                                        *                                                            -            A           -
              Transportation

2.2.4.5       Pyrotechnic and/or Explosive Devices Storage     *                                                            -            A           -
              Conventional Munitions Restricted/Suspended
2.2.4.6                                                        *                                                            -            A           B
              (CMRS) Listing

2.2.5         Ground, Fire Safety, HAZCOM

2.2.5.1       Fundamentals                                                                                                  -            A           B

2.2.5.2       Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS)               *                                                            -            A           B

2.2.5.3       Safety Lesson Plan                                                                                            -            -           B
              AUTOMATED DATA SYSTEMS
2.3           TR: AFI 25-201, 33-112, 33-119, 33-332, 33-
              360V1, 38-401; Applicable User's Manuals
2.3.1         Perform Equipment Records Maintenance            *                                                            -            -           -
              Flight Equipment Records Management
2.3.2
              System (FERMS)

                                                                       28
                                                                                                                                    Attachment 2
                                                 Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                               CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                 A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                  3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                            Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                            5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                          Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.3.2.1       Fundamentals                                                                                              -            -           -

2.3.2.2       Perform Records Maintenance                                                                               -            -           -

2.3.3         DELETED

2.3.3.1       DELETED                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.3.3.2       DELETED                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.3.4         Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS)

2.3.4.1       Fundamentals                                                                                              -            -           -

2.3.4.2       Review Work Center Event Listing                                                                          -            -           -

2.3.4.3       Schedule Work Center Event                                                                                -            -           -

2.3.4.4       Clear Work Center Event                                                                                   -            -           -

2.3.4.5       Defer Work Center Event                                                                                   -            -           -

2.3.4.6       Use GO81 (IMDS for mobility)                                                                              -            -           -

2.3.4.7       Use Standard Base Supply System (SBSS)                                                                    -            -           -

2.3.4.8       Equipment Installation                                                                                    -            -           -

2.3.4.9       Equipment Removal                                                                                         -            -           -

2.3.4.10      Standard Reporting Designator Change                                                                      -            -           -

2.3.4.11      Part/Serial Number Change                                                                                 -            -           -

2.3.5         Electronic Publications

2.3.5.1       Fundamentals                                                                                              -            -           B
              Publication Change Request
2.3.5.2                                                                                                                 -            -           -
              (AF Form 847)
2.3.5.3       Publish Supplements                                                                                       -            -           -

2.3.5.4       Develop Operating Instructions                                                                            -            -           -

2.3.5.5       Support Agreements                                                                                        -            -           -

2.3.6         Use Air Force Portal/SharePoint                                                                           -            -           -


                                                                   29
                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                                 Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                     2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                  A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                   3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                             Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                             5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                           Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.3.7         Training Business Area (TBA)                                                                               -            -           -

2.3.7.1       Fundamentals                                                                                               -            -           -

2.3.7.2       Perform Records Maintenance
              COMMUNICATIONS/ OPERATIONS
              SECURITY VULNERABILITIES OF AFSC
2.4
              1P0X1
              TR: AFI 10-701, 31-401
2.4.1         Fundamentals                                                                                               -            B           -
              Shop (e.g., Data Transfer Cartridge (DTC),
2.4.2                                                                                                                    -            -           -
              Tapes, Line-up Cards) Handling
              Use Special Instructions (SPINS)/
2.4.3                                                                                                                    -            B           -
              Air Tasking Order (ATO)
              Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
2.4.4                                                                                                                    -            B           -
              (SIPRNET)
              Secure Voice Operations
2.4.5                                                                                                                    -            B           -
              (STE)
2.4.6         Classified Materials Handling                                                                              -            -           -
              Advanced Survival Radio/Global Positioning
2.4.7                                                                                                                    -            B           -
              Satellite (GPS)
2.4.8         DELETED
              LOGISTICS (SUPPLY) AND MATERIEL
              RESPONSIBILITIES/ ACCOUNTABILITIES
              TR: AFI 31-101, 23-111; AFMAN 23-110
              Series, 23-220; Applicable Allowance
2.5
              Standards (AS), as required;
              TO 00-20-3,
              00-20-9, 00-25-06-2-1,
              00-35D-54
2.5.1         Fundamentals                                                                                               -            A           B
              Use Air Force Equipment
2.5.2                                                               *                                                    -            -           -
              Management System (AFEMS)
2.5.3         Use TORC Screens                                      *                                                    -            -           -

2.5.4         Property Accountability and Responsibility                                                                 -            A           -

2.5.5         Issue and Turn-in Request Forms                                                                            -            A           -
              Use Customer Authorization/Custody
2.5.6                                                               *                                                    -            -           b
              Receipt Listing (CA/CRL) (R14)
              Deployed Equipment Accountability
2.5.7                                                                                                                    -            -           -
              CA/CRL (R14)


                                                                    30
                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
                                                Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                 CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                      2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                   A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                    3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                              Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                              5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                            Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.5.8         Use Allowance Standards (AS)                           *                                                    -            -           b

2.5.9         Supply Publications                                                                                         -            A           B

2.5.10        Prepare Materiel/Condition Tags                *                                                            a            a           b

2.5.11        Prepare Deficiency Reports (DR)                        *                                                    -            -           b

2.5.12        DELETED
              Forecast Aircrew Flight Equipment Time-
2.5.13                                                                                                                    -            -           b
              Change Items
2.5.14        Forecast Aircrew Flight Equipment Munitions                                                                 -            -           b

2.5.15        Repair Cycle Assets (DIFM)                                                                                  -            A           -

2.5.16        Prepare Report of Survey                                                                                    -            -           b

2.5.17        Supply Computer Products

2.5.17.1      Fundamentals                                                                                                -            B           B

2.5.17.2      FEDLOG/WEBFLIS/DoD Emall                                                                                    -            -           -

2.5.17.3      D04                                                                                                         -            -           -

2.5.17.4      D18                                                                                                         -            -           -

2.5.17.5      M30/M36                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.5.17.6      R15                                                                                                         -            -           -

2.5.18        Operating Budget for Equipment and Supplies

2.5.18.1      Fundamentals                                                                                                -            A           B

2.5.18.2      Prepare                                                                                                     -            -           -
              Function and Use of Cost Per Flying Hour
2.5.18.3                                                                                                                  -            -           B
              (CPFH) funds
              TECHNICAL ORDERS
              TR: AFI 21-303; TO 00-5-1, 00-5-15,
2.6
              Technical Orders/Web-based Indexes/TCTO
              for AFE Equipment
2.6.1         Technical Order System                                                                                      B            B           -

2.6.2         Use                                            *                                                           2b            -           -


                                                                     31
                                                                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                                   Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                               CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                 A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                  3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                            Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                            5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                          Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.6.3         File Maintenance                                                                                          -            A           B

2.6.4         Procure Technical Orders                                                                                  -            -           b

2.6.5         Improvement Reports

2.6.5.1       Fundamentals                                                                                              -            B           B

2.6.5.2       Submit                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.6.5.3       Evaluate                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.6.6         Manage TCTO Program                                                                                       -            -           -
              Electronic/Digital Technical Orders/
2.6.7         Enhanced Technical Information                                                                            -            A           -
              Management System (ETIMS)
              TEST EQUIPMENT/SPECIAL TOOLS
2.7           TR: TO 33D Series, 33K-1-100,
              Commercial Manuals
2.7.1         Fundamentals                                                                                              -            B           -

2.7.2         Ensure Serviceability/Use

2.7.2.1       Anti-Exposure Suit Air Test Device                                                                        -            -           -

2.7.2.2       Altitude Test Chamber                                                                                     -            -           -

2.7.2.3       ANV-126 Series                                                                                           2b            a           -

2.7.2.4       ANV-20/20 (Hoffman)                                                                                      2b            a           -
              Aviation Life Support
2.7.2.5                                                                                                                2b            -           -
              Equipment Tester (ALSET)
2.7.2.6       Battery Testers                                                                                           -            -           -

2.7.2.7       Belt Tester                                                                                               -            -           -

2.7.2.8       Combined Aircrew Systems Tester (CAST)                                                                   2b            b           -
              Combined Aircrew Systems Tester Plus
2.7.2.9                                                                                                                 -            -           -
              (CAST PLUS)
2.7.2.10      DMH-1/LSHT-1                                                                                              -            a           -
              Helmet Mounted Display Test Set (HMDTS)
2.7.2.11                                                                                                                -            -           -
              (TTU-569A)
2.7.2.12      Hydrothermograph                                                                                          -            b           -


                                                                   32
                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                                Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                               CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                 A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                  3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                            Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                            5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                          Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.7.2.13      Multimeter                                                                                                -            b           -

2.7.2.14      Porosity Tester                                                                                           -            -           -

2.7.2.15      Pressure Gauges                                                                                          1a            b           -

2.7.2.16      Push/Pull Scale                                                                                          2b            b           -
              SCOT Communications and
2.7.2.17                                                                                                               2b            b           -
              Oxygen Systems Tester
2.7.2.18      SCOT Release Tester                                                                                      2b            b           -

2.7.2.19      Torque Devices                                                                                           2b            b           -

2.7.2.20      DELETED

2.7.2.21      TS-4317-3 (RCTS-003)                                                                                      -            a           -

2.7.2.22      TTU-529/E                                                                                                 -            b           -

2.7.2.23      Life Raft Test Fixture                                                                                    -            b           -

2.7.2.24      Anti-Exposure Suit Water Test Device                                                                      -            -           -

2.7.2.25      Weight Scales                                                                                            2b            b           -

2.7.2.26      Joint Service Mask Leakage Tester (JSMLT)                                                                 -            -           -

2.7.2.27      Joint CAST                                                                                                -            -           -

2.7.2.28      Altitude CAST                                                                                             -            -           -
              Universal Audio Cable Verification (UACV)
2.7.2.29                                                                                                                -            -           -
              Test Set
              Parachutist High Altitude Next-generation
2.7.2.30      Technology Oxygen Mask (PHANTOM)                                                                          -            -           -
              Test Stand
              HAND TOOLS
2.8
              TR: TO 32-1-101
2.8.1         Types                                                                                                     -            B           -

2.8.2         Use                                                                                                      2b            -           -

2.8.3         Care                                                                                                     2b            -           -

2.9           COMPOSITE TOOL KIT (CTK)

2.9.1         Fundamentals                                                                                              -            A           B


                                                                   33
                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                                    Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                     2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                  A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                   3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                             Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                             5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                           Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.9.2         Use                                           *                                                           2b            -           -
              SHOP EQUIPMENT
2.10          TR: TO 00-20-7, 34-1-3, and applicable
              equipment publications
2.10.1        Fundamentals                                                                                               -            B           -

2.10.2        Air Compressor                                                                                             -            a           -

2.10.3        Fabric Cutters                                                                                             -            -           -

2.10.4        Heat Seal Machines                                                                                         -            -           -

2.10.5        Hot Knife                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.10.6        Lifting Devices                                                                                            -            a           -

2.10.7        Oil Water Separators                                                                                       -            -           -

2.10.8        Regulators                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.10.9        Stencil Machine                                                                                            -            -           -

2.10.10       Vacuum Packaging Machine                                                                                   -            -           -

2.10.11       Wax Pot                                                                                                    -            -           -
              SEWING TECHNIQUES
2.11
              TR: TO 00-25-120, and 13C5 and 14 Series
2.11.1        Textile materials

2.11.1.1      Terms and Characteristics                                                                                  B            B           -

2.11.1.2      Types, Uses, and Storage Principles                                                                        B            B           -

2.11.1.3      Knot Usage                                                                                                 -            B           -

2.11.1.4      Use Hand Seams                                                                                             -            -           -

2.11.1.5      Use Machine Seams                             *                                                           1b            -           -

2.11.2        Sewing Machines

2.11.2.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               -            B           -
              Perform Preventive Maintenance
2.11.2.2                                                    *                                                           2b            B           -
              (Inspect, Clean, and Lubricate)



                                                                    34
                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
                                                Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                               CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                 A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                  3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                            Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                            5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                          Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC
              Perform Operator Maintenance
2.11.2.3      (Remove/Replace Presser Feet and Needles,    *                                                           2b            B           -
              and Adjust Thread Tension)
2.11.2.4      Light Weight

2.11.2.4.1    Nomenclature                                                                                              -            -           -

2.11.2.4.2    Operate                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.11.2.4.3    Troubleshoot                                                                                              -            -           -

2.11.2.4.4    Time                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.11.2.4.5    Adjust                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.11.2.5      Medium Weight

2.11.2.5.1    Nomenclature                                                                                              B            B           -

2.11.2.5.2    Operate                                                                                                  2b            -           -

2.11.2.5.3    Troubleshoot                                                                                             2b            B           -

2.11.2.5.4    Time                                                                                                     2b            -           -

2.11.2.5.5    Adjust                                                                                                   2b            -           -

2.11.2.6      Zigzag

2.11.2.6.1    Nomenclature                                                                                              -            B           -

2.11.2.6.2    Operate                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.11.2.6.3    Troubleshoot                                                                                              -            B           -

2.11.2.6.4    Time                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.11.2.6.5    Adjust                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.11.2.7      Heavy Weight

2.11.2.7.1    Nomenclature                                                                                              -            B           -

2.11.2.7.2    Operate                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.11.2.7.3    Troubleshoot                                                                                              -            B           -



                                                                   35
                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                                   Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                               CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                 A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                  3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                            Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                            5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                          Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.11.2.7.4    Time                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.11.2.7.5    Adjust                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.11.2.8      Bartack

2.11.2.8.1    Nomenclature                                                                                              -            -           -

2.11.2.8.2    Operate                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.11.2.8.3    Troubleshoot                                                                                              -            -           -

2.11.2.8.4    Time                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.11.2.8.5    Adjust                                                                                                    -            -           -
              FABRIC ITEMS
              TR: TO 13A1-1-1, 13A1-1-2,
2.12
              13A1-8-1, 00-25-120 and applicable
              aircraft technical publications
2.12.1        Fundamentals                                                                                              B            B           -

2.12.2        Modify                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.12.3        Interpret Blueprints/Drawings                                                                             -            -           -

2.12.4        Protective Covers

2.12.4.1      Types                                                                                                     A            B           -

2.12.4.2      Fabricate                                                                                                2b            b           -

2.12.4.3      Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.12.4.4      Modify                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.12.4.5      Assemble                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.12.4.6      Disassemble                                                                                               -            -           -

2.12.5        Upholstery

2.12.5.1      Types                                                                                                     -            B           -

2.12.5.2      Fabricate                                                                                                 -            b           -

2.12.5.3      Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -


                                                                   36
                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                                 Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                 CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                      2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                   A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                    3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                              Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                              5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                            Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.12.5.4      Modify                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.12.5.5      Assemble                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.12.5.6      Disassemble                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.12.6        Soundproofing

2.12.6.1      Types                                                                                                       -            B           -

2.12.6.2      Fabricate                                                                                                   -            B           -

2.12.6.3      Repair                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.12.6.4      Modify                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.12.6.5      Assemble                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.12.6.6      Disassemble                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.12.7        Aircraft Thermal Radiation Barrier/Curtains

2.12.7.1      Types                                                                                                       -            B           -

2.12.7.2      Inspect                                                                                                     -            b           -

2.12.7.3      Repair                                                                                                      -            b           -

2.12.7.4      Reseal                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.12.8        Cargo Nets

2.12.8.1      Repair                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.12.9        Flight Clothing

2.12.9.1      Inspect                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.12.9.2      Repair                                                                                                      -            -           -
              ANTI-EXPOSURE SUITS
2.13          TR: AFI 11-202V3; TO 1-1-641, 14P3-5
              Series, Commercial Manuals
2.13.1        Over the Side (OTS)

2.13.1.1      Fundamentals                                                                                                -            A           -



                                                                     37
                                                                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                 Specialty Training Standard

                                                                             CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                  2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                          Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                               A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                          Level        Level       Level
 References
                                          5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                        Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.13.1.2      Fit                                                                                     -            -           -

2.13.1.3      Inspect                                                                                 -            -           -

2.13.1.4      Repair                                                                                  -            -           -

2.13.1.5      Assemble                                                                                -            -           -

2.13.2        CWU-16/P

2.13.2.1      Fundamentals                                                                            -            B           -

2.13.2.2      Inspect                                                                                 -            -           -

2.13.2.3      Repair                                                                                  -            -           -

2.13.2.4      Assemble                                                                                -            -           -

2.13.3        CWU-23/P

2.13.3.1      Fundamentals                                                                            -            -           -

2.13.3.2      Fit                                                                                     -            -           -

2.13.3.3      Inspect                                                                                 -            -           -

2.13.3.4      Repair                                                                                  -            -           -

2.13.3.5      DELETED                                                                                 -            -           -

2.13.4        CWU-86/ P Series

2.13.4.1      Fundamentals                                                                            -            B           -

2.13.4.2      Fit                                                                                     -            b           -

2.13.4.3      Inspect                                                                                 -            b           -

2.13.4.4      Repair                                                                                  -            b           -

2.13.4.5      Assemble                                                                                -            b           -

2.13.5        CWU-74/P

2.13.5.1      Fundamentals                                                                            -            B           -

2.13.5.2      Fit                                                                                     -            b           -


                                                 38
                                                                                                              Attachment 2
                                              Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                               CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                 A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                  3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                            Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                            5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                          Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.13.5.3      Inspect                                                                                                   -            b           -

2.13.5.3      Repair                                                                                                    -            b           -

2.13.5.4      Assemble                                                                                                  -            b           -

2.13.6        MAC 10

2.13.6.1      Fit                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.13.6.2      Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.13.6.3      Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.13.6.4      Assemble                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.13.7        MAC 300

2.13.7.1      Fit                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.13.7.2      Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.13.7.3      Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.13.7.4      Assemble                                                                                                  -            -           -
              ANTI-G GARMENTS
2.14
              TR: TO 14P3-6-121, 14P3-6-141, 14P3-1-161
2.14.1        G-Forces                                                                                                  A            B           -

2.14.2        CSU-13B/P G-Suit

2.14.2.1      Fundamentals                                                                                              A            B           -

2.14.2.2      Fit                                                                                                      1a            b           -

2.14.2.3      Inspect                                                                                                  1a            b           -

2.14.2.4      Repair                                                                                                    -            b           -

2.14.2.5      Modify                                                                                                    -            b           -

2.14.3        CSU-17/P Vest

2.14.3.1      Fundamentals                                                                                              -            -           -




                                                                   39
                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                                Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                            CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                 2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                         Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                              A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                               3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                         Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                         5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                       Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.14.3.2      Fit                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.14.3.3      Inspect                                                                                                -            -           -

2.14.3.4      Repair                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.14.3.5      Modify                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.14.4        CSU-23/P (F-22)

2.14.4.1      Fundamentals                                                                                           -            B           -

2.14.4.2      Fit                                                                                                    -            b           -

2.14.4.3      Inspect                                                                                                -            b           -

2.14.4.4      Repair                                                                                                 -            b           -

2.14.4.5      Modify                                                                                                 -            b           -

2.14.5        CSU-22/P Full Coverage G-Suit

2.14.5.1      Fundamentals                                                                                           -            -           -

2.14.5.2      Fit                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.14.5.3      Inspect                                                                                                -            -           -

2.14.5.4      Repair                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.14.5.5      Modify                                                                                                 -            -           -
              BREATHING EQUIPMENT
              TR: TO 14P3-1-161, 15X-1-1,
              15X1-4-2-4, 15X5-3-6-1,
2.15
              15X5-4-1-101, 15X5-5-3-1,
              15X5-2-4-1, 15X5-4-8-1;
              Commercial Manuals
2.15.1        Oxygen Systems                                                                                         -            B           -

2.15.2        Physiological Effects of Flight                                                                        A            B           -

2.15.3        AWACS Mask

2.15.3.1      Fundamentals

2.15.3.1      Inspect                                                                                                -            -           -


                                                                40
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                         Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                     CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                          2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                       A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                        3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                  Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                  5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.15.3.2      Assemble                                                                                        -            -           -

2.15.3.3      Disassemble                                                                                     -            -           -

2.15.3.4      Repair                                                                                          -            -           -

2.15.4        CRU-60/P

2.15.4.1      Fundamentals                                                                                    -            B           -

2.15.4.2      Inspect                                                                                         -            b           -

2.15.4.3      Assemble                                                                                        -            b           -

2.15.4.4      Disassemble                                                                                     -            b           -

2.15.4.5      Repair                                                                                          -            b           -

2.15.5        CRU-103 Oxygen Regulator

2.15.5.1      Fundamentals                                                                                    -            -           -

2.15.5.2      Inspect                                                                                         -            -           -

2.15.5.3      Assemble                                                                                        -            -           -

2.15.5.4      Disassemble                                                                                     -            -           -

2.15.5.5      Repair                                                                                          -            -           -

2.15.6        CRU-94 ITB

2.15.6.1      Fundamentals                                                                                    A            B           -

2.15.6.2      Inspect                                                                                         -            -           -

2.15.6.3      Assemble                                                                                       2b            b           -

2.15.6.4      Disassemble                                                                                     -            -           -

2.15.6.5      Repair                                                                                          -            b           -

2.15.6.6      Inspect                                                                                        2b            b           -

2.15.7        CRU-120/A

2.15.7.1      Fundamentals                                                                                    -            A           -


                                                         41
                                                                                                                      Attachment 2
                                               Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                           CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                             A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                              3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                        Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                        5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                      Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.15.7.2      Inspect                                                                                               -            b           -

2.15.7.3      Assemble                                                                                              -            b           -

2.15.7.4      Disassemble                                                                                           -            b           -

2.15.7.5      Repair                                                                                                -            b           -

2.15.8        CRU-122/P

2.15.8.1      Fundamentals                                                                                          -            A           -

2.15.8.2      Inspect                                                                                               -            -           -

2.15.8.3      Assemble                                                                                              -            -           -

2.15.8.4      Disassemble                                                                                           -            -           -

2.15.8.5      Repair                                                                                                -            -           -

2.15.9        Custom Made Mask

2.15.9.1      Ordering Procedures                                                                                   -            -           -

2.15.9.2      Inspect                                                                                               -            -           -

2.15.9.3      Assemble                                                                                              -            -           -

2.15.9.4      Disassemble                                                                                           -            -           -

2.15.9.5      Repair                                                                                                -            -           -

2.15.9.6      Fit                                                                                                   -            -           -
              Emergency
2.15.10
              Passenger Oxygen System (EPOS)
2.15.10.1     Fundamentals                                                                                          -            B           -

2.15.10.2     Inspect                                                                                               -            b           -

2.15.10.3     Modify                                                                                                -            -           -
              Emergency Respiratory Oxygen Systems
2.15.11
              (EROS) Mask
2.15.11.1     Inspect                                                                                               -            -           -

2.15.11.2     Modify                                                                                                -            -           -


                                                               42
                                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                             Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                              CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                   2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                           Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                 3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                           Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                           5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                         Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.15.12       MBU-12/P

2.15.12.1     Fundamentals                                                                                             -            B           -

2.15.12.2     Fit                                                                                                      -            b           -

2.15.12.3     Inspect                                                                                                  -            b           -

2.15.12.4     Assemble                                                                                                 -            b           -

2.15.12.5     Disassemble                                                                                              -            b           -

2.15.13       MBU-20 Series

2.15.13.1     Fundamentals                                                                                             A            B           -

2.15.13.2     Fit                                                                                                     1b            b           -

2.15.13.3     Inspect                                                                                                 2b            b           -

2.15.13.4     Assemble                                                                                                2b            b           -

2.15.13.5     Disassemble                                                                                             2b            b           -

2.15.13.6     Modify                                                                                                   -            b           -

2.15.13.7     Repair                                                                                                   -            b           -

2.15.14       Passenger Oxygen Mask

2.15.14.1     Fundamentals                                                                                             -            B           -

2.15.14.2     Inspect                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.15.14.3     Modify                                                                                                   -            -           -

              Protective Breathing Equipment (PBE) /
2.15.15
              Emergency Escape Breathing Device (EEBD)

2.15.15.1     Fundamentals                                                                                             -            B           -

2.15.15.2     Inspect                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.15.16       Scot 358 Series

2.15.16.1     Fundamentals                                                                                             A            B           -




                                                                  43
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                               Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                               CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                 A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                  3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                            Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                            5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                          Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.15.16.2     Inspect                                                                                                  2b            -           -

2.15.16.3     Assemble                                                                                                 2b            -           -

2.15.16.4     Disassemble                                                                                              2b            -           -

2.15.16.5     Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.15.17       Scot 359 Series

2.15.17.1     Fundamentals                                                                                              -            -           -

2.15.17.2     Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.15.17.3     Assemble                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.15.17.4     Disassemble                                                                                               -            -           -

2.15.17.5     Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.15.18       Smoke Mask

2.15.18.1     Fundamentals

2.15.18.2     Inspect

2.15.18.3     Assemble

2.15.18.4     Disassemble

2.15.18.5     Repair

2.15.19       Helicopter Emergency Air Breathing Device

2.15.19.1     Fundamentals                                                                                              -            -           -

2.15.19.2     HEEDS III

2.15.19.2.1 Inspect                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.15.19.2.2 Fill                                                                                                        -            -           -

2.15.19.3     SEA MK II

2.15.19.3.1 Inspect                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.15.19.3.2 Fill                                                                                                        -            -           -


                                                                   44
                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                               Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                               CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                 A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                  3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                            Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                            5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                          Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.15.19.3.3 Assemble                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.15.19.3.4 Disassemble                                                                                                 -            -           -
              STS /Guardian Angel Specialized Breathing
2.15.20
              Equipment
2.15.20.1     Airox 8 Regulator

2.15.20.1.1 Fundamentals                                                                                                -            -           -

2.15.20.1.2 Inspect                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.15.20.1.3 Assemble                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.15.20.1.4 Disassemble                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.15.20.1.5 Repair                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.15.20.2     Oxygen Prebreather Consoles

2.15.20.2.1 Fundamentals                                                                                                -            -           -

2.15.20.2.2 Inspect                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.15.20.2.3 Repair                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.15.20.2.4 Operate                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.15.20.3     Oxygen System Test Stand

2.15.20.3.1 Fundamentals                                                                                                -            -           -

2.15.20.3.2 Inspect                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.15.20.3.3 Repair                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.15.20.3.4 Operate                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.15.20.4     Oxygen Pressure Booster System

2.15.20.4.1 Fundamentals                                                                                                -            -           -

2.15.20.4.2 Inspect                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.15.20.4.3 Repair                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.15.20.4.4 Operate                                                                                                     -            -           -


                                                                   45
                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                                Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                     2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                  A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                   3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                             Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                             5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                           Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.15.20.5     Oxygen Recharge System

2.15.20.5.1 Fundamentals                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.15.20.5.2 Inspect                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.15.20.5.3 Repair                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.15.20.5.4 Operate                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.15.20.6     Portable Oxygen Recharge System

2.15.20.6.1 Fundamentals                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.15.20.6.2 Inspect                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.15.20.6.3 Repair                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.15.20.6.4 Operate                                                                                                      -            -           -
              Parachutist High Altitude Next-generation
2.15.20.7                                                                                                                -            -           -
              Technology Oxygen Mask (PHANTOM)
2.15.20.7.1 Fundamentals                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.15.20.7.2 Inspect                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.15.20.7.3 Assemble                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.15.20.7.4 Disassemble                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.15.20.7.5 Repair                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.15.20.7.6 Fit                                                                                                          -            -           -
              PROTECTIVE HELMETS
2.16          TR: TO 14P3-1-161, 14P3-1-121, 14P3-4-151,
              14P3-4-201, 14P3-4-191; Commercial Manual
2.16.1        HGU-55A/P (JHMCS)

2.16.1.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               -            B           -

2.16.1.2      Fit                                                                                                        -            b           -

2.16.1.3      Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.16.1.4      Assemble                                                                                                   -            -           -



                                                                    46
                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
                             Specialty Training Standard

                                                                         CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                              2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                      Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                           A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                            3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                      Level        Level       Level
 References
                                      5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                    Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.16.1.5      Disassemble                                                                         -            -           -

2.16.1.6      Repair                                                                              -            -           -

2.16.1.7      Modify                                                                              -            -           -

2.16.2        HGU-55/P

2.16.2.1      Fundamentals                                                                        A            B           -

2.16.2.2      Fit                                                                                1b            b           -

2.16.2.3      Inspect                                                                            1b            b           -

2.16.2.4      Assemble                                                                            -            b           -

2.16.2.5      Disassemble                                                                         -            b           -

2.16.2.6      Repair                                                                              -            b           -

2.16.2.7      Modify                                                                              -            -           -

2.16.3        HGU-56/P

2.16.3.1      Fundamentals                                                                        -            B           -

2.16.3.2      Fit                                                                                 -            -           -

2.16.3.3      Inspect                                                                             -            -           -

2.16.3.4      Assemble                                                                            -            -           -

2.16.3.5      Disassemble                                                                         -            -           -

2.16.3.6      Repair                                                                              -            -           -

2.16.3.7      Modify                                                                              -            -           -

2.16.4        DELETED

2.16.4.1      DELETED

2.16.4.2      DELETED

2.16.4.3      DELETED

2.16.4.4      DELETED



                                             47
                                                                                                          Attachment 2
                                                Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                               CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                 A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                  3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                            Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                            5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                          Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.16.4.5      DELETED

2.16.4.6      DELETED

2.16.4.7      DELETED
              Helmet Mounted Integrated
2.16.5
              Targeting (HMIT) System
2.16.5.1      Fundamentals                                                                                              -            -           -

2.16.5.2      Fit                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.16.5.3      Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.16.5.4      Assemble                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.16.5.5      Disassemble                                                                                               -            -           -
              Future Assault Shell Technology (FAST)/
2.16.6
              Bump Helmet (Guardian Angel/STS)
2.16.6.1      Fundamentals                                                                                              -            -           -

2.16.6.2      Fit                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.16.6.3      Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.16.6.4      Assemble                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.16.6.5      Disassemble                                                                                               -            -           -
              Attenuating Custom Communication Earpiece
2.16.7
              System (ACCES)
2.16.7.1      Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.16.7.2      Modify/Fit                                                                                                -            -           -
              F-35 AIRCRAFT GENERAL
              TR: F35-AAA-A051202000-540A-A, F35-
2.17          AAA-A0512020000-740A-A, F35-AAA-
              A0512030000-540A-A, F35-AAA-
              A051203000-740A-A
2.17.1        Position Maintenance Ladder                                                                               -            -           -

2.17.2        Position Maintenance Stand                                                                                -            -           -

2.17.3        Install Protective Matting                                                                                -            -           -



                                                                   48
                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                                Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                            CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                 2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                         Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                              A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                               3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                         Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                         5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                       Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.17.4        Boarding Ladder Lower/Stow                                                                             -            -           -

2.17.5        Pilot Interface Connector

2.17.5.1      Remove/Install                                                                                         -            -           -

2.17.5.2      Inspect                                                                                                -            -           -

2.17.6        Vision Systems International Helmet

2.17.6.1      Fundamentals                                                                                           -            -           -

2.17.6.2      Inspect                                                                                                -            -           -

2.17.6.3      HMD Test                                                                                               -            -           -

2.17.6.4      Maintain                                                                                               -            -           -

2.17.6.5      HMD Adjustment                                                                                         -            -           -

2.17.7        Oxygen Mask MBU-23/P

2.17.7.1      Fundamentals                                                                                           -            -           -

2.17.7.2      Fit                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.17.7.3      Maintain                                                                                               -            -           -

2.17.8        Full Coverage Lower G-Garment

2.17.8.1      Fundamentals                                                                                           -            -           -

2.17.8.2      Clean                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.17.8.3      Test                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.17.8.4      Inspect                                                                                                -            -           -

2.17.8.5      Repair                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.17.8.6      Inflation Hose

2.17.8.6.1    Remove                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.17.8.6.2    Install                                                                                                -            -           -

2.17.8.6.3    Adjust                                                                                                 -            -           -


                                                                49
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                              Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                             CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                  2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                          Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                               A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                          Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                          5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                        Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.17.8.7      Full Coverage Lower G-Garment Connector

2.17.8.7.1    Remove                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.17.8.7.2    Install                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.17.9        5-Bladder G-Garment

2.17.9.1      Fundamentals                                                                                            -            -           -

2.17.9.2      Clean                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.17.9.3      Test                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.17.9.4      Inspect                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.17.9.5      Repair                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.17.9.6      Inflation Hose

2.17.9.6.1    Remove                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.17.9.6.2    Install                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.17.9.6.3    Adjust                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.17.9.7      5-Bladder G-Garment Connector                                                                           -            -           -

2.17.9.7.1    Remove                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.17.9.7.2    Install                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.17.10       Breathing Gas Hose Assembly

2.17.10.1     Assemble                                                                                                -            -           -

2.17.10.2     Clean                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.17.10.3     Inspect                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.17.10.4     Remove                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.17.10.5     Install                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.17.11       Pilot Flight Equipment

2.17.11.1     Fundamentals                                                                                            -            -           -


                                                                 50
                                                                                                                              Attachment 2
                                                   Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                               CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                 A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                  3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                            Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                            5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                          Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.17.11.2     Fit-Adjust Winter Schedule                                                                                -            -           -

2.17.11.3     Fit-Adjust Summer Schedule                                                                                -            -           -

2.17.11.4     Fit-Adjust Chemical Biological PFE                                                                        -            -           -

2.17.12       Flight Jacket Sleeved/Sleeveless

2.17.12.1     Assemble                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.17.12.2     Clean                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.17.12.3     Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.17.12.4     Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.17.13       Water Storage Reservoir

2.17.13.1     Clean                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.17.13.2     Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.17.13.3     Remove                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.17.13.4     Install                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.17.14       Light Weight Coverall W/ARS

2.17.14.1     Assemble                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.17.14.2     Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.17.14.3     Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.17.14.4     Clean                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.17.15       Arm Restraint Extension Lines

2.17.15.1     Install                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.17.15.2     Remove                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.17.15.3     Adjust                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.17.15.4     Clean                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.17.15.5     Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -


                                                                   51
                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                        Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                    CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                         2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                      A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                       3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                 Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                 5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                               Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.17.16       Life Preserver Unit

2.17.16.1     Assemble                                                                                       -            -           -

2.17.16.2     Inspect                                                                                        -            -           -

2.17.16.3     Remove                                                                                         -            -           -

2.17.16.4     Install                                                                                        -            -           -

2.17.16.5     Bladder

2.17.16.5.1 Remove                                                                                           -            -           -

2.17.16.5.2 Install                                                                                          -            -           -

2.17.16.6     Inflator

2.17.16.6.1 Inspect                                                                                          -            -           -

2.17.16.6.2 Remove                                                                                           -            -           -

2.17.16.6.3 Install                                                                                          -            -           -

2.17.16.7     40G Cylinder

2.17.16.7.1 Inspect                                                                                          -            -           -

2.17.16.7.2 Remove                                                                                           -            -           -

2.17.16.7.3 Install                                                                                          -            -           -

2.17.16.8     Water Immersion Garment

2.17.16.8.1 Assemble                                                                                         -            -           -

2.17.16.8.2 Clean                                                                                            -            -           -

2.17.16.8.3 Test                                                                                             -            -           -

2.17.16.8.4 Inspect                                                                                          -            -           -

2.17.16.8.5 Repair                                                                                           -            -           -

2.17.16.9     Pilot Cooling Garment

2.17.16.9.1 Remove                                                                                           -            -           -


                                                        52
                                                                                                                     Attachment 2
                                               Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                  CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                       2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                    A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                     3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                               Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                               5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                             Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.17.16.9.2 Install                                                                                                        -            -           -

2.17.16.9.3 Clean                                                                                                          -            -           -

2.17.16.9.4 Inspect                                                                                                        -            -           -

2.17.16.9.5 Maintain                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.17.16.10    Pilot Cooling Unit

2.17.16.10.1 Remove                                                                                                        -            -           -

2.17.16.10.2 Install                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.17.16.10.3 Clean                                                                                                         -            -           -

2.17.16.10.4 Test                                                                                                          -            -           -

2.17.16.10.5 Maintain                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.17.16.11    Ready Room Tester (RRT)

2.17.16.11.1 Fundamentals                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.17.16.11.2 Set Up                                                                                                        -            -           -

2.17.16.11.3 Use                                                                                                           -            -           -

2.17.16.12    Automatic Logistic Information System (ALIS)

2.17.16.12.1 Fundamentals                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.17.16.12.2 Use                                                                                                           -            -           -
              OPTICAL ACCESSORIES
              TR: TO 33B4-10-5-1, 33B4-10-6-1, 12S10-
2.18          2AVS9-1, 11-5855-306-10, 12S10-2AVS10-1,
              12S10-2PVS7-11, 14P3-9-12, 14P3-9-21;
              Commercial Manuals
2.18.1        Flash Protection

2.18.1.1      Fundamentals                                                                                                 -            B           -

2.18.2        EEU-2/P and -2A/P

2.18.2.1      Fit                                                                                                          -            -           -




                                                                      53
                                                                                                                                   Attachment 2
                                               Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                              CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                   2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                           Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                 3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                           Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                           5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                         Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.18.2.2      Inspect                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.18.2.3      Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.18.3        MIL-G-635

2.18.3.1      Fit

2.18.3.2      Inspect

2.18.4        Aviator Night Vision Imaging Systems

2.18.4.1      Advanced Concept of Night Vision Systems                                                                 -            -           B

2.18.5        AN/AVS-9 (F4949)

2.18.5.1      Fundamentals                                                                                             A            B           -

2.18.5.2      Fit                                                                                                      -            b           -

2.18.5.3      Inspect                                                                                                 2b            b           -

2.18.5.4      Assemble                                                                                                 -            b           -

2.18.5.5      Disassemble                                                                                              -            -           -

2.18.5.6      Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.18.5.7      Adjust Visual Acuity                                                                                     -            b           -

2.18.6.       AN/AVS-10 (PNVG)

2.18.6.1      Fundamentals                                                                                             -            A           -

2.18.6.2      Fit                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.18.6.3      Inspect                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.18.6.4      Assemble                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.18.6.5      Disassemble                                                                                              -            -           -

2.18.6.6      Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.18.6.7      Adjust for Visual Acuity                                                                                 -            -           -

2.18.7        Aircrew Monocular Night Vision Devices                                                                   -            -           -


                                                                  54
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                         Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                     CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                          2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                  Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                       A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                        3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                  Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                  5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.18.8        STS/Guardian Angel NVD

2.18.8.1      PVS-7/P NVG

2.18.8.1.2    Fundamentals                                                                                    -            -           -

2.18.8.1.3    Fit                                                                                             -            -           -

2.18.8.1.4    Inspect                                                                                         -            -           -

2.18.8.1.5    Assemble                                                                                        -            -           -

2.18.8.1.6    Disassemble                                                                                     -            -           -

2.18.8.1.7    Repair                                                                                          -            -           -

2.18.8.1.8    Adjust for Visual Acuity                                                                        -            -           -

2.18.9        PVS-14 NVG

2.18.9.1      Fundamentals                                                                                    -            -           -

2.18.9.2      Fit                                                                                             -            -           -

2.18.9.3      Inspect                                                                                         -            -           -

2.18.9.4      Assemble                                                                                        -            -           -

2.18.9.5      Disassemble                                                                                     -            -           -

2.18.9.6      Repair                                                                                          -            -           -

2.18.9.7      Adjust for Visual Acuity                                                                        -            -           -

2.18.10       PVS-15 NVG

2.18.10.1     Fundamentals                                                                                    -            -           -

2.18.10.2     Fit                                                                                             -            -           -

2.18.10.3     Inspect                                                                                         -            -           -

2.18.10.4     Assemble                                                                                        -            -           -

2.18.10.5     DELETED                                                                                         -            -           -

2.18.10.6     Repair                                                                                          -            -           -


                                                         55
                                                                                                                      Attachment 2
                                               Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                           CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                             A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                              3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                        Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                        5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                      Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.18.10.7     Adjust for Visual Acuity                                                                              -            -           -

2.18.11       PVS-18 NVG

2.18.11.1     Fundamentals                                                                                          -            -           -

2.18.11.2     Fit                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.18.11.3     Inspect                                                                                               -            -           -

2.18.11.4     Assemble                                                                                              -            -           -

2.18.11.5     Disassemble                                                                                           -            -           -

2.18.11.6     Repair                                                                                                -            -           -

2.18.11.7     Adjust for Visual Acuity                                                                              -            -           -
              Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System
2.18.12
              (JHMCS)
2.18.12.1     Fundamentals                                                                                          -            B           -

2.18.12.2     Upper Helmet Vehicle Interface (UHVI)                                                                 -            -           -

2.18.12.3     Display Unit                                                                                          -            -           -

2.18.13       Aircrew Laser Eye Protection (ALEP)

2.18.13.1     Fundamentals                                                                                          -            B           -

2.18.13.2     FV-9

2.18.13.2.1 Fit                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.18.13.2.2 Inspect                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.18.13.2.3 Repair                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.18.14       Block 0

2.18.14.1     Fit                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.18.14.2     Inspect                                                                                               -            -           -

2.18.14.3     Repair                                                                                                -            -           -

2.18.15       Block 0+



                                                               56
                                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                               Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                               CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                 A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                  3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                            Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                            5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                          Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.18.15.1     Fit                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.18.15.2     Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.18.15.3     Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.18.16       Block 1

2.18.16.1     Fit                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.18.16.2     Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.18.16.3     Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.18.17       Block 2

2.18.17.1     Fit                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.18.17.2     Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.18.17.3     Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.18.18       JHMCS Compatible ALEP Spectacle

2.18.18.1     Fit                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.18.18.2     Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.18.18.3     Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -
              AIRCREW CHEMICAL, BIOLOGICAL,
              RADIOLOGICAL, NUCLEAR (CBRN)
              EQUIPMENT & OPERATIONS
2.19
              TR: TO 11C15-1-3, 14P3-1-131, 14P3-1-151,
              14P4-1-151, AFI 11-301 Series; AFMAN 10-
              2602; AFMAN 10-100 Commercial Manuals

2.19.1        Aircrew CBRN Protection

2.19.1.1      CONOPS                                                                                                    -            B           B

2.19.1.2      Fundamentals                                                                                              A            B           B
              Mitigation Aircrew Contamination Control
2.19.2
              Area (ACCA) Procedures

2.19.2.1      Fundamentals                                                                                              A            B           -




                                                                   57
                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                               Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                           CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                             A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                              3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                        Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                        5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                      Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.19.2.2      Setup/Tear-down                          *                                                            -            b           -

2.19.2.3      Manage                                           *                                                    -            -           b

2.19.2.4      Process Equipment                        *                                                            -            b           b

2.19.2.5      Process Aircrews                         *                                                            -            b           b

2.19.2.6      Joint Chemical Agent Detector (JCAD)                                                                  -            -           -

2.19.3        CQU-7/P Blower

2.19.3.1      Fundamentals                                                                                          -            B           -

2.19.3.2      Inspect                                                                                               -            b           -

2.19.3.3      Assemble/Disassemble                                                                                  -            -           -

2.19.4        CWU-66/P (Coveralls)

2.19.4.1      Fundamentals                                                                                          -            B           -

2.19.4.2      Fit                                                                                                   -            b           -

2.19.4.3      Inspect                                                                                               -            b           -

2.19.5        HGU-41/P Hood

2.19.5.1      Fundamentals                                                                                          -            -           -

2.19.5.2      Inspect                                                                                               -            -           -

2.19.5.3      Modify                                                                                                -            -           -

2.19.5.4      Repair                                                                                                -            -           -

2.19.6        MBU-13/P CBO Mask

2.19.6.1      Fundamentals

2.19.6.2      Fit

2.19.6.3      Inspect

2.19.6.4      Modify

2.19.6.5      Repair




                                                               58
                                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                             Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                             CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                  2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                          Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                               A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                          Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                          5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                        Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.19.7        MBU-19/P Mask

2.19.7.1      Fundamentals                                                                                            -            B           -

2.19.7.2      Fit                                                                                                     -            b           -

2.19.7.3      Inspect                                                                                                 -            b           -

2.19.7.4      Modify                                                                                                  -            b           -

2.19.7.5      Repair                                                                                                  -            b           -

2.19.7.6      Assemble                                                                                                -            -           -

2.19.7.7      Disassemble                                                                                             -            -           -

2.19.8        MXU-835/P Intercom Unit

2.19.8.1      Fundamentals                                                                                            -            B           -

2.19.8.2      Inspect                                                                                                 -            b           -

2.19.9        MPU-5 Joint Service Aircrew Mask (JSAM)

2.19.9.1      Fundamentals                                                                                            -            -           -

2.19.9.2      Fit                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.19.9.3      Inspect                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.19.9.4      Repair                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.19.10       M-53 Aircrew Chemical Mask

2.19.10.1     Fundamentals                                                                                            -            -           -

2.19.10.2     Fit                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.19.10.3     Inspect                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.19.10.4     Repair                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.19.11       JSAM Blower

2.19.11.1     Fundamentals                                                                                            -            -           -

2.19.11.2     Inspect                                                                                                 -            -           -


                                                                 59
                                                                                                                              Attachment 2
                                                Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                     2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                  A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                   3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                             Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                             5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                           Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.19.11.3     Repair                                                                                                     -            -           -
              JSAM Conversational Communication Unit
2.19.12
              (CCU)
2.19.12.1     Fundamentals                                                                                               -            -           -

2.19.12.2     Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -
              Joint Protective Aircrew Chemical Ensemble
2.19.13
              (JPACE)
2.19.13.1     Fundamentals                                                                                               -            -           -

2.19.13.2     Fit                                                                                                        -            -           -

2.19.13.3     Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.19.14       Don ACDE                                                                                                   -            b           -
              EMERGENCY ELECTRONIC
              COMMUNICATION/SIGNALING
              EQUIPMENT
              TR: AFI 13-203; TO 14S10-2-2, 31R2-4-1679-
2.20
              1, 31R2-2PRQ7-1, 31R2-2PRQ7-8-1, 31R2-1-
              251, 31R2-PRC90-2, 31R2-2PRC112-1-1,
              31R4-2URT33-11, TM 11-6130 489-13/P;
              Commercial Manuals
2.20.1        Personnel Recovery Communication

2.20.1.1      CONOPS                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.20.2        ACR/MS-2000M

2.20.2.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               -            B           -

2.20.2.2      Inspect                                                                                                    -            b           -
              Combat Survivor Evader Locator (CSEL)
2.20.3
              AN/PRQ-7 Series
2.20.3.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               A            B           -

2.20.3.2      Inspect                                                                                                   1a            -           -

2.20.3.3      Repair                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.20.3.4      Update Software (Home Station/Deployed)                                                                    -            b           -

2.20.3.5      Perform Program Loading Operations                                                                        2b            -           -


                                                                    60
                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
                                                Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                     2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                  A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                   3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                             Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                             5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                           Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.20.3.6      Data Transfer Device (DTD)                                                                                 -            A           -

2.20.4        Global Positioning System (GPS) Receivers

2.20.4.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               -            -           -

2.20.4.2      Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.20.4.3      Load                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.20.4.4      Collect and Update Almanac                                                                                 -            -           -

2.20.5        PRC-90 Series

2.20.5.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               -            -           -

2.20.5.2      Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.20.5.3      Repair                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.20.6        PRC-112 Series

2.20.6.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               -            B           -

2.20.6.2      Inspect                                                                                                    -            b           -

2.20.6.3      Repair                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.20.6.4      Battery Tracking                                                                                           -            -           -

2.20.6.5      Update Software (Home station/Deployed)                                                                    -            -           -

2.20.6.6      Perform Program Loading Operations                                                                         -            b           -

2.20.6.7      Collect and Update Almanac                                                                                 -            b           -
              Search and Rescue Satellite-Aided Tracking
2.20.7
              (SARSAT)
2.20.7.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               -            B           -

2.20.7.2      Perform 406 MHz Registration                 */R                                                           -            a           b

2.20.8        Personnel Locator Beacon

2.20.8.1      URT-33 Series

2.20.8.1.1    Fundamentals                                                                                               -            -           -


                                                                    61
                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
                                              Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                     2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                  A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                   3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                             Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                             5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                           Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.20.8.1.2    Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -
              Locate False Emergency Beacon
2.20.8.1.3                                                                                                               -            -           -
              Transmissions
2.20.8.2      URT-44 Series

2.20.8.2.1    Fundamentals                                                                                               A            B           -

2.20.8.2.2    Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -
              LIFE PRESERVER UNITS (LPU)
2.21          TR: TO 14D3-11-1, 14S-1-102-11; 14S-1-102-
              21; 14S-1-102-31; Commercial Manuals
2.21.1        Adult/Child (A-A-50652)

2.21.1.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               -            B           -

2.21.1.2      Inspect                                                                                                    -            b           -

2.21.1.3      Pack                                                                                                       -            b           -

2.21.1.4      Repair                                                                                                     -            b           -

2.21.1.5      Install/inspect accessories                                                                                -            b           -

2.21.2        LPU-6/P

2.21.2.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               -            -           -

2.21.2.2      Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.21.2.3      Pack                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.21.2.4      Repair                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.21.2.5      Install/inspect accessories                                                                                -            -           -

2.21.3        LPU-9/P

2.21.3.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               -            -           -

2.21.3.2      Fit                                                                                                        -            -           -

2.21.3.3      Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.21.3.4      Pack                                                                                                       -            -           -



                                                                    62
                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
                                              Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                     2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                  A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                   3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                             Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                             5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                           Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.21.3.5      Repair                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.21.4        LPU-10/P

2.21.4.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               A            B           -

2.21.4.2      Fit                                                                                                        -            b           -

2.21.4.3      Inspect                                                                                                   1a            b           -

2.21.4.4      Pack                                                                                                      1a            b           -

2.21.4.5      Repair                                                                                                     -            b           -

2.21.5        LPU-38/P

2.21.5.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               A            B           -

2.21.5.2      Fit                                                                                                       1a            b           -

2.21.5.3      Inspect                                                                                                   1a            b           -

2.21.5.4      Pack                                                                                                      1a            b           -

2.21.5.5      Repair                                                                                                     -            B           -
              LIFE RAFTS
              TR: TO 14S-1-102-11, 14S-1-102-21; 14S1-3-
2.22
              51, 14S3-1-3, 14S3-7-3-2;
              Commercial Manuals
2.22.1        One-Man (LRU-16/P)

2.22.1.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               A            B           -

2.22.1.2      Inspect                                                                                                   2b            b           -

2.22.1.3      Fold                                                                                                      2b            -           -

2.22.1.4      Repair                                                                                                     b            -           -

2.22.2        7-Man (LRU-1/P)

2.22.2.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               -            B           -

2.22.2.2      Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.22.2.3      Pack                                                                                                       -            -           -


                                                                    63
                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
                              Specialty Training Standard

                                                                          CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                               2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                       Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                            A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                             3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                       Level        Level       Level
 References
                                       5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                     Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.22.2.4      Repair                                                                               -            -           -

2.22.3        20-Man (F-2B)

2.22.3.1      Fundamentals                                                                         A            B           -

2.22.3.2      Inspect                                                                             1a            b           -

2.22.3.3      Pack                                                                                1a            b           -

2.22.3.4      Repair                                                                               a            b           -

2.22.4        25-Man

2.22.4.1      Fundamentals                                                                         -            B           -

2.22.4.2      Inspect                                                                              -            b           -

2.22.4.3      Pack                                                                                 -            b           -

2.22.4.4      Repair                                                                               -            b           -

2.22.5        46-Person

2.22.5.1      Fundamentals                                                                         -            B           -

2.22.5.2      Inspect                                                                              -            b           -

2.22.5.3      Pack                                                                                 -            b           -

2.22.5.4      Repair                                                                               -            b           -

2.22.6        AC-9

2.22.6.1      Fundamentals                                                                         -            B           -

2.22.6.2      Inspect                                                                              -            -           -

2.22.6.3      Pack                                                                                 -            -           -

2.22.6.4      Repair                                                                               -            -           -

2.22.7        AC-20

2.22.7.1      Fundamentals                                                                         -            B           -

2.22.7.2      Inspect                                                                              -            -           -


                                              64
                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                            Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                             CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                  2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                          Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                               A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                          Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                          5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                        Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.22.7.3      Pack                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.22.7.4      Repair                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.22.8        T-9AF

2.22.8.1      Fundamentals                                                                                            -            B           -

2.22.8.2      Inspect                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.22.8.3      Pack                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.22.8.4      Repair                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.22.9        LRU-34/A

2.22.9.1      Fundamentals                                                                                            -            -           -

2.22.9.2      Inspect                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.22.9.3      Pack                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.22.9.4      Repair                                                                                                  -            -           -
              ESCAPE SLIDES
2.23
              TR: Applicable TO
2.23.1        Fundamentals                                                                                            -            B           -

2.23.2        Inspect                                                                                                 -            b           -

2.23.3        Pack                                                                                                    -            b           -

2.23.4        Repair                                                                                                  -            b           -

2.23.5        Escape Slide Cylinder

2.23.5.1      Fundamentals                                                                                            -            B           -

2.23.5.2      Maintain                                                                                                -            b           -

2.23.5.3      Service                                                                                                 -            -           -
              PARACHUTE SYSTEMS, TORSO
              HARNESSES, AND RESTRAINT DEVICES
2.24          TR: TO 11P Series, 13A1-1-1, 14D1-1-1,
              14D1-1-2, 14D3-10-1, 14D3-11-1, 14D1-3-
              316, 14D1-3-339-1



                                                                 65
                                                                                                                              Attachment 2
                                                 Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                             CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                  2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                          Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                               A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                          Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                          5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                        Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.24.1        Theory of Operations                                                                                    B            B           -

2.24.2        Malfunction Analysis                                                                                    -            B           B

2.24.3        Clean                                                                                                   -            b           -

2.24.4        Store                                                                                                   -            b           -

2.24.5        Ship                                                                                                    -            b           -

2.24.6        Personnel

2.24.6.1      ACES II Personnel Recovery Assembly

2.24.6.1.1    Fundamentals                                                                                            B            B           -

2.24.6.1.2    Inspect                                                                                                2b            b           -

2.24.6.1.3    Pack                                                                                                   2b            b           -

2.24.6.1.4    Repair                                                                                                  -            b           -

2.24.6.1.5    Assemble                                                                                                -            -           -

2.24.6.1.6    Disassemble                                                                                             -            -           -

2.24.6.1.7    Rig 4 Line Release                                                                                      -            -           -
              ACES II Personnel Recovery
2.24.6.2
              Assembly Container
2.24.6.2.1    Assemble                                                                                                -            -           -

2.24.6.2.2    Disassemble                                                                                             -            -           -

2.24.6.2.3    Clean                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.24.6.3      F-35 Personnel Recovery Assembly

2.24.6.3.1    Fundamentals                                                                                            -            -           -

2.24.6.3.2    Inspect                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.24.6.3.3    Pack                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.24.6.3.4    Repair                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.6.3.5    Assemble                                                                                                -            -           -


                                                                 66
                                                                                                                              Attachment 2
                                                  Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                              CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                   2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                           Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                 3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                           Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                           5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                         Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.24.6.3.6    Disassemble                                                                                              -            -           -

2.24.6.3.7    Parachute Press Operations                                                                               -            -           -

2.24.6.4      GQ Type 5000

2.24.6.4.1    Fundamentals                                                                                             -            -           -

2.24.6.4.2    Inspect                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.6.4.3    Pack                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.24.6.4.4    Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.24.6.4.5    Assemble                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.24.6.4.6    Disassemble                                                                                              -            -           -

2.24.6.4.7    Parachute Press Operations (T-6)                                                                         -            -           -

2.24.6.4.8    Parachute Press Operations (T-38)                                                                        -            -           -

2.24.6.5      BA-Series

2.24.6.5.1    Fundamentals                                                                                             B            B           -

2.24.6.5.2    Fit                                                                                                      -            b           -

2.24.6.5.3    Inspect                                                                                                 2b            b           -

2.24.6.5.4    Pack                                                                                                    2b            b           -

2.24.6.5.5    Repair                                                                                                   -            b           -

2.24.6.5.6    Assemble                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.24.6.5.7    Disassemble                                                                                              -            -           -

2.24.6.5.8    Rig 4 Line Release                                                                                      2b            -           -

2.24.6.6      Low Profile Parachute

2.24.6.6.1    Fundamentals                                                                                             -            -           -

2.24.6.6.2    Fit                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.24.6.6.3    Inspect                                                                                                  -            -           -


                                                                  67
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                      Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                  CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                       2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                               Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                    A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                     3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                               Level        Level       Level
 References
                                               5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                             Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.24.6.6.4    Pack                                                                                         -            -           -

2.24.6.6.5    Repair                                                                                       -            -           -

2.24.6.6.6    Assemble                                                                                     -            -           -

2.24.6.6.7    Disassemble                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.6.6.8    Rig 4 Line Release                                                                           -            -           -

2.24.6.7      Chest Style (Reserve)

2.24.6.7.1    Inspect                                                                                      -            -           -

2.24.6.7.2    Pack                                                                                         -            -           -

2.24.6.7.3    Repair                                                                                       -            -           -

2.24.6.7.4    Assemble                                                                                     -            -           -

2.24.6.7.5    Disassemble                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.6.7.6    Rig 4 Line Release                                                                           -            -           -

2.24.6.8      MC1-1C/D

2.24.6.8.1    Inspect                                                                                      -            -           -

2.24.6.8.2    Pack                                                                                         -            -           -

2.24.6.8.3    Repair                                                                                       -            -           -

2.24.6.8.4    Assemble                                                                                     -            -           -

2.24.6.8.5    Disassemble                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.6.9      MC-4 (Main)

2.24.6.9.1    Fundamentals                                                                                 -            A           -

2.24.6.9.2    Inspect                                                                                      -            -           -

2.24.6.9.3    Pack                                                                                         -            -           -

2.24.6.9.4    Repair                                                                                       -            -           -

2.24.6.9.5    Assemble                                                                                     -            -           -


                                                      68
                                                                                                                   Attachment 2
                               Specialty Training Standard

                                                                           CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                        Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                             A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                              3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                        Level        Level       Level
 References
                                        5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                      Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.24.6.9.6    Disassemble                                                                           -            -           -

2.24.6.10     MC-4 (Reserve)

2.24.6.10.1   Fundamentals                                                                          -            A           -

2.24.6.10.2   Inspect                                                                               -            -           -

2.24.6.10.3   Pack                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.6.10.4   Repair                                                                                -            -           -

2.24.6.10.5   Assemble                                                                              -            -           -

2.24.6.10.6   Disassemble                                                                           -            -           -

2.24.6.11     MC-5 (Main)

2.24.6.11.1   Fundamentals                                                                          -            A           -

2.24.6.11.2   Inspect                                                                               -            -           -

2.24.6.11.3   Pack                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.6.11.4   Repair                                                                                -            -           -

2.24.6.11.5   Assemble                                                                              -            -           -

2.24.6.11.6   Disassemble                                                                           -            -           -

2.24.6.12     MC-5 (Reserve)

2.24.6.12.1   Fundamentals                                                                          -            A           -

2.24.6.12.2   Inspect                                                                               -            -           -

2.24.6.12.3   Pack                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.6.12.4   Repair                                                                                -            -           -

2.24.6.12.5   Assemble                                                                              -            -           -

2.24.6.12.6   Disassemble                                                                           -            -           -

2.24.6.13     MC-6

2.24.6. 13.1 Fundamentals                                                                           -            A           -


                                               69
                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                           Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                       CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                            2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                         A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                          3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                    Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                    5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                  Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.24.6. 13.2 Inspect                                                                                            -            -           -

2.24.6. 13.3 Pack                                                                                               -            -           -

2.24.6. 13.4 Repair                                                                                             -            -           -

2.24.6. 13.5 Assemble                                                                                           -            -           -

2.24.6. 13.6 Disassemble                                                                                        -            -           -
               Modified Improved Reserve
2.24.6.14
               Parachute System (MIRPS)
2.24.6.14.1    Inspect                                                                                          -            -           -

2.24.6. 14.2   Pack                                                                                             -            -           -

2.24.6. 14.3   Repair                                                                                           -            -           -

2.24.6. 14.4   Assemble                                                                                         -            -           -

2.24.6. 14.5   Disassemble                                                                                      -            -           -
               MT2-XX/SL (Main)
2.24.6.15
               (NAVSEA SS400-AX-MMO-010)
2.24.6.15.1    Inspect                                                                                          -            -           -

2.24.6.15.2    Pack                                                                                             -            -           -

2.24.6.15.3    Repair                                                                                           -            -           -

2.24.6.15.4    Assemble                                                                                         -            -           -

2.24.6.15.5    Disassemble                                                                                      -            -           -
               MT2-XX/SL (Reserve)
2.24.6.16
               (NAVSEA SS400-AX-MMO-010)
2.24.6.16.1    Inspect                                                                                          -            -           -

2.24.6.16.2    Pack                                                                                             -            -           -

2.24.6.16.3    Repair                                                                                           -            -           -

2.24.6.16.4    Assemble                                                                                         -            -           -

2.24.6.16.5    Disassemble                                                                                      -            -           -

2.24.6.17      T-11R Reserve


                                                           70
                                                                                                                        Attachment 2
                                                   Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                               CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                 A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                  3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                            Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                            5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                          Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.24.6.17.1   Fundamentals                                                                                              -            A           -

2.24.6.17.2   Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.24.6.17.3   Pack                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.24.6.17.4   Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.24.6.17.5   Assemble                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.6.17.6   Disassemble                                                                                               -            -           -

2.24.6.18     Butler Chest Reserve

2.24.6.18.1   Fundamentals                                                                                              -            -           -

2.24.6.18.2   Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.24.6.18.3   Pack                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.24.6.18.4   Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.24.6.18.5   Assemble                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.6.18.6   Disassemble                                                                                               -            -           -

2.24.6.19     Military Javelin main parachute

2.24.6. 19.1 Fundamentals                                                                                               -            -           -

2.24.6. 19.2 Inspect
                                                                                                                        -            -           -

                                                                                                                        -            -           -
2.24.6. 19.3 Pack (Freefall Configuration)

2.24.6. 19.4 Pack (Static Line Configuration)
                                                                                                                        -            -           -

2.24.6. 19.5 Repair
                                                                                                                        -            -           -

2.24.6. 19.6 Assemble
                                                                                                                        -            -           -

2.24.6. 19.7 Disassemble                                                                                                -            -           -

2.24.6.20     Military Javelin reserve parachute

2.24.6.20.1 Fundamentals                                                                                                -            -           -

2.24.6.20.2 Inspect                                                                                                     -            -           -


                                                                   71
                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                               Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                             CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                  2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                          Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                               A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                          Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                          5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                        Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.24.6.20.3 Pack                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.24.6.20.4 Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.24.6.20.5 Assemble                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.6.20.6 Disassemble                                                                                               -            -           -

2.24.6.21     Javelin container

2.24.6.21.1 Fundamentals                                                                                              -            -           -

2.24.6.21.2 Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.24.6.21.3 Close                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.24.6.21.4 Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.24.6.21.5 Assemble                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.6.21.6 Disassemble                                                                                               -            -           -

2.24.6.22     Military Tandem Sigma main parachute

2.24.6.22.1 Fundamentals                                                                                              -            -           -

2.24.6.22.2 Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.24.6.22.3 Pack                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.24.6.22.4 Assemble                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.6.22.5 Disassemble                                                                                               -            -           -

2.24.6.22.6 Repair                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.24.6.23     Military Tandem Sigma reserve parachute

2.24.6.23.1 Fundamentals                                                                                              -            -           -

2.24.6.23.2 Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.24.6.23.3 Pack                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.24.6.23.4 Assemble                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.6.23.5 Disassemble                                                                                               -            -           -


                                                                 72
                                                                                                                              Attachment 2
                                                Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                            CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                 2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                         Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                              A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                               3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                         Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                         5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                       Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.24.6.23.6 Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.24.6.24     Vector container

2.24.6.24.1 Fundamentals                                                                                             -            -           -

2.24.6.24.2 Inspect                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.6.24.3 Close                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.24.6.24.4 Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.24.6.24.5 Assemble                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.24.6.24.6 Disassemble                                                                                              -            -           -

2.24.6.25     PD Series main parachute

2.24.6.25.1 Fundamentals                                                                                             -            -           -

2.24.6.25.2 Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.24.6.26     PD Series reserve parachute

2.24.6.26.1 Fundamentals                                                                                             -            -           -

2.24.6.26.2 Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.24.6.27     Raven reserve parachute

2.24.6.27.1 Fundamentals                                                                                             -            -           -

2.24.6.27.2 Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -
              Special Operations Vector
2.24.6.28
              (SOV-3HH) main parachute 8 ring
2.24.6.28.1 Fundamentals                                                                                             -            -           -
                                                                                                                     -            -           -
2.24.6.28.2 Inspect
                                                                                                                     -            -           -
2.24.6.28.3 Pack (Freefall Configuration)

2.24.6.28.4 Pack (Static Line Configuration)
                                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.24.6.28.5 Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -
              Special Operations Vector
2.24.6.29
              (SOV-3HH) main parachute 6 ring


                                                                73
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                                Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                            CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                 2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                         Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                              A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                               3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                         Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                         5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                       Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.24.6. 29.1 Fundamentals                                                                                            -            -           -

2.24.6. 29.2 Inspect                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.24.6. 29.3 Pack (Freefall Configuration)                                                                           -            -           -

2.24.6. 29.4 Pack (Static Line Configuration)                                                                        -            -           -

2.24.6. 29.5 Repair                                                                                                  -            -           -
              Special Operations Vector
2.24.6.30
              (SOV-3HH) reserve parachute 8 ring

2.24.6.30.1 Fundamentals                                                                                             -            -           -

2.24.6.30.2 Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -
              Special Operations Vector
2.24.6.31
              (SOV-3HH) reserve parachute 6 ring

2.24.6.31.1 Fundamentals                                                                                             -            -           -
                                                                                                                     -            -           -
2.24.6.31.2 Repair

2.24.6.32     Wind Drift

2.24.6.32.1 Fundamentals                                                                                             -            -           -

2.24.6.32.2 Repair
                                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.24.6.33     Talon Container

2.24.6.33.1 Fundamentals                                                                                             -            -           -

2.24.6.33.2 Inspect                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.6.33.3 Close                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.24.6.33.4 Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.24.6.33.5 Assemble                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.24.6.33.6 Disassemble                                                                                              -            -           -
              Torso Harnesses
2.24.6.34
              (PCU-15/P or -16/P Series)
2.24.6.34.1 Fundamentals                                                                                             B            B           -




                                                                74
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                           Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                       CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                            2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                    Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                         A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                          3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                    Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                    5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                  Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.24.6.34.2 Fit                                                                                                2b            b           -

2.24.6.34.3 Inspect                                                                                             -            b           -

2.24.6.34.4 Assemble                                                                                            -            b           -

2.24.6.34.5 Disassemble                                                                                         -            b           -

2.24.6.34.6 Modify                                                                                              -            b           -

2.24.6.34.7 Repair                                                                                              -            b           -

2.24.6.35     Restraint Devices

2.24.6.35.1 PCU-17/P

2.24.6.35.1.1 Fundamentals                                                                                      -            B           -

2.24.6.35.1.2 Inspect                                                                                           -            -           -

2.24.6.35.1.3 Modify                                                                                            -            -           -

2.24.6.35.1.4 Repair                                                                                            -            -           -

2.24.6.35.2 HBU-6/P Safety Strap

2.24.6.35.2.1 Fundamentals                                                                                      -            B           -

2.24.6.35.2.2 Inspect                                                                                           -            -           -

2.24.6.35.2.3 Modify                                                                                            -            -           -

2.24.6.35.2.4 Repair                                                                                            -            -           -

2.24.6.35.3 Crewmember Safety Belt (CSB)

2.24.6.35.3.1 Fundamentals                                                                                      -            -           -

2.24.6.35.3.2 Inspect                                                                                           -            -           -

2.24.6.35.3.3 Modify                                                                                            -            -           -

2.24.6.35.3.4 Repair                                                                                            -            -           -

2.24.7        Deceleration/Drogue

2.24.7.1      ACES II Drogue System



                                                           75
                                                                                                                        Attachment 2
                                                  Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                              CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                   2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                           Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                 3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                           Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                           5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                         Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.24.7.1.1    Fundamentals                                                                                             A            B           -

2.24.7.1.2    Inspect                                                                                                 1a            b           -

2.24.7.1.3    Rig                                                                                                     1a            b           -

2.24.7.1.4    Pack                                                                                                    1a            b           -

2.24.7.1.5    Repair                                                                                                   -            b           -

2.24.7.2      ACES II Fast Drogue System (F-22)

2.24.7.2.1    Inspect                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.7.2.2    Pack                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.24.7.2.3    Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.24.7.3      B-52 Drogue

2.24.7.3.1    Inspect                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.7.3.2    Pack                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.24.7.3.3    Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.24.7.3.4    Assemble                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.24.7.3.5    Disassemble                                                                                              -            -           -

2.24.7.4      B-52 Deceleration

2.24.7.4.1    Inspect                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.7.4.2    Pack                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.24.7.4.3    Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.24.7.4.4    Assemble                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.24.7.4.5    Disassemble                                                                                              -            -           -

2.24.7.5      T-38 Drogue

2.24.7.5.1    Inspect                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.24.7.5.2    Pack                                                                                                     -            -           -


                                                                  76
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                              Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                          CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                               2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                       Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                            A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                             3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                       Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                       5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                     Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.24.7.5.3    Repair                                                                                               -            -           -

2.24.7.5.4    Assemble                                                                                             -            -           -

2.24.7.5.5    Disassemble                                                                                          -            -           -

2.24.8        Cargo Parachutes

2.24.8.1      Fundamentals                                                                                         -            -           -

2.24.8.2      Repair
                                                                                                                   -            -           -

              PARACHUTE/
2.25          TORSO HARNESS ACCESSORIES
              TR: TO 14D3-11-1
2.25.1        Beacon

2.25.1.1      Fundamentals                                                                                         -            B           -

2.25.1.2      Remove                                                                                              1a            -           -

2.25.1.3      Install                                                                                             1a            -           -

2.25.2        Minimum Survival Kit SRU-16/P

2.25.2.1      Fundamentals                                                                                         -            B           -

2.25.2.2      Remove                                                                                               -            -           -

2.25.2.3      Inspect                                                                                              -            -           -

2.25.2.4      Install                                                                                              -            -           -

2.25.3        Oxygen bottle (MD Series)

2.25.3.1      Fundamentals                                                                                         -            B           -

2.25.3.2      Remove                                                                                               -            -           -

2.25.3.3      Maintain                                                                                             -            -           -

2.25.3.4      Install                                                                                              -            -           -

2.25.4        Personnel lowering device

2.25.4.1      Fundamentals                                                                                         -            B           -



                                                              77
                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                                 Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                              CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                   2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                           Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                 3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                           Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                           5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                         Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.25.4.2      Remove                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.25.4.3      Inspect                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.25.4.4      Install                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.25.4.5      Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.25.5.       DELETED

2.25.5.1      DELETED                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.25.5.2      DELETED                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.25.5.3      DELETED                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.25.6        Survival Kit Actuator

2.25.6.1      Remove                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.25.6.2      Inspect                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.25.6.3      Install                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.25.7        MA Series Wrist Altimeter

2.25.7.1      Fundamentals                                                                                             -            -           -

2.25.7.2      Inspect                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.25.7.3      Test                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.25.7.4      Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.25.8        Altimaster/Galaxy Series Wrist Altimeter

2.25.8.1      Fundamentals                                                                                             -            -           -

2.25.8.2      Inspect                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.25.8.3      Test                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.25.8.4      Repair                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.25.9        Automatic Activation Devices

2.25.9.1      Cypres Expert



                                                                  78
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                              Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                           CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                             A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                              3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                        Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                        5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                      Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.25.9.1.1    Fundamentals                                                                                          -            A           -

2.25.9.1.2    Install                                                                                               -            -           -

2.25.9.1.3    Remove                                                                                                -            -           -

2.25.9.1.4    Replace Cutter                                                                                        -            -           -

2.25.9.1.5    Operate                                                                                               -            -           -

2.25.9.2      Military Cypres Release

2.25.9.2.1    Fundamentals                                                                                          -            A           -

2.25.9.2.2    Install                                                                                               -            -           -

2.25.9.2.3    Remove                                                                                                -            -           -

2.25.9.2.4    Replace Cutter                                                                                        -            -           -

2.25.9.2.5    Operate                                                                                               -            -           -

2.25.9.3      SCOT Release

2.25.9.3.1    Fundamentals                                                                                          B            B           -

2.25.9.3.2    Inspect                                                                                              2b            b           -

2.25.9.3.3    Remove                                                                                               2b            -           -

2.25.9.3.4    Install                                                                                              2b            b           -
              STS/Guardian Angel Parachutist Oxygen
2.25.10
              Bottles

2.25.10.1     Twin 22

2.25.10.1.1 Fundamentals                                                                                            -            -           -

2.25.10.1.2 Inspect                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.25.10.1.3 Fill                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.25.10.2     Twin 53

2.25.10.2.1 Fundamentals                                                                                            -            -           -

2.25.10.2.2 Inspect                                                                                                 -            -           -


                                                               79
                                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                                 Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                   CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                        2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                     A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                      3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                                Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                                5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                              Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.25.10.2.3 Fill                                                                                                            -            -           -

2.25.10.3     88 Cubic Inch

2.25.10.3.1 Fundamentals                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.25.10.3.2 Inspect                                                                                                         -            -           -

2.25.10.3.3 Fill                                                                                                            -            -           -

2.25.10.4     120 Cubic Inch

2.25.10.4.1 Fundamentals                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.25.10.4.2 Inspect                                                                                                         -            -           -

2.25.10.4.3 Fill                                                                                                            -            -           -

2.25.11       122 Cubic Inch

2.25.11.1     Fundamentals                                                                                                  -            -           -

2.25.11.2     Inspect                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.25.11.3     Fill                                                                                                          -            -           -
              SURVIVAL KITS/VESTS
              TR: TO 00-35A-39, 13A5-56-11, 11A Series,
2.26          11P Series, 14S1-3-51, 14s1-11-1, 14S1-11-3,
              14S3-1-3; Applicable Aircraft Flight Manuals;
              Commercial Manuals
2.26.1        ACES II

2.26.1.1      Fundamentals                                                                                                  A            B           -

2.26.1.2      Inspect                                                                                                      1a            b           -

2.26.1.3      Modify                                                                                                        -            b           -

2.26.1.4      Pack                                                                                                         1a            b           -

2.26.1.5      Repair                                                                                                        -            b           -

2.26.1.6      Assemble                                                                                                      -            b           -

2.26.2        Air Ace




                                                                       80
                                                                                                                                    Attachment 2
                                               Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                     2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                  A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                   3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                             Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                             5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                           Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.26.2.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               -            B           -

2.26.2.2      Fit                                                                                                        -            -           -

2.26.2.3      Inspect                                                                                                    -            b           -

2.26.2.4      Modify                                                                                                     -            b           -

2.26.2.5      Repair                                                                                                     -            b           -

2.26.2.6      Assemble                                                                                                   -            -           -
              Aircrew Integrated Recovery Survival Armor
2.26.3
              Vest and Equipment (AIRSAVE)
2.26.3.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               -            A           -

2.26.3.2      Fit                                                                                                        -            b           -

2.26.3.3      Inspect                                                                                                    -            b           -

2.26.3.4      Modify                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.26.3.5      Repair                                                                                                     -            -           -
              Eagle Combat Integrated Armor Carrying
2.26.4
              System (CIACS)
2.26.4.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               -            -           -

2.26.4.2      Fit                                                                                                        -            -           -

2.26.4.3      Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.26.4.4      Modify                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.26.4.5      Repair                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.26.5        Air Warrior System

2.26.5.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               -            -           -

2.26.5.2      Fit                                                                                                        -            -           -

2.26.5.3      Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.26.5.4      Modify                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.26.5.5      Repair                                                                                                     -            -           -


                                                                    81
                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
                                                    Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                     2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                  A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                   3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                             Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                             5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                           Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.26.6        Aircraft Minimum Survival Kit (MSK)

2.26.6.1      Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.26.6.2      Pack                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.26.6.3      Repair                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.26.7        Aircraft Protective Clothing Kit (PCK)

2.26.7.1      Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.26.7.2      Pack                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.26.8        Aircrew Body Armor

2.26.8.1      Fundamentals                                                                                               -            B           -

2.26.8.2      Fit                                                                                                        -            -           -

2.26.8.3      Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.26.8.4      Repair                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.26.9        Auxiliary Survival Kit (ASK)

2.26.9.1      Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.26.9.2      Pack                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.26.10       CNU-129/P

2.26.10.1     Fundamentals                                                                                               -            -           -

2.26.10.2     Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -

2.26.10.3     Pack                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.26.10.4     Perform Pre-Installation Inspection                                                                        -            -           -

2.26.10.5     Install Survival Kit                                                                                       -            -           -

2.26.10.6     Remove Survival Kit                                                                                        -            -           -

2.26.11       Depot Survival Kit (DSK)

2.26.11.1     Inspect                                                                                                    -            -           -


                                                                    82
                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
                                                 Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                               CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                 A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                  3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                            Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                            5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                          Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.26.11.2     Pack                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.26.12       Live-Aboard Kit (LAK)

2.26.12.1     Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.26.12.2     Pack                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.26.13       MA-1/MA-2 Sea Rescue Kit

2.26.13.1     Fundamentals                                                                                              -            -           -

2.26.13.2     Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.26.13.3     Pack                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.26.14       ML-4

2.26.14.1     Fundamentals                                                                                              A            B           -

2.26.14.2     Inspect                                                                                                  2b            b           -

2.26.14.3     Pack                                                                                                     2b            b           -

2.26.15       Multi-Place Life Raft Accessory Container

2.26.15.1     Fundamentals                                                                                              -            B           -

2.26.15.2     Inspect                                                                                                   -            b           -

2.26.15.3     Pack                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.26.16       Slide/Raft Accessories Container

2.26.16.1     Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.26.16.2     Pack                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.26.17       SRU-21/P

2.26.17.1     Fundamentals                                                                                              -            -           -

2.26.17.2     Fit                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.26.17.3     Inspect                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.26.17.4     Modify                                                                                                    -            -           -


                                                                   83
                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                                Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                            CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                 2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                         Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                              A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                               3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                         Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                         5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                       Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.26.17.5     Repair                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.26.18       Survival Components

2.26.18.1     Fundamentals                                                                                           A            B           -

2.26.18.2     Operate                                                                                                -            b           -

2.26.18.3     Inspect                                   *                                                            -            b           -

2.26.19       T-6A Seat Survival Kit (SSK)

2.26.19.1     Inspect                                                                                                -            -           -

2.26.19.2     Pack                                                                                                   -            -           -
              T-38 ESUP Seat Survival Kit
2.26.20
              (Over land/Over water)
2.26.20.1     Fundamentals                                                                                           -            -           -

2.26.20.2     Inspect                                                                                                -            -           -

2.26.20.3     Pack                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.26.20.4     Repair                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.26.20.5     Assemble                                                                                               -            -           -

2.26.20.6     Disassemble                                                                                            -            -           -

2.26.21       F-35 Seat Survival Kit Assembly

2.26.21.1     Fundamentals                                                                                           -            -           -

2.26.21.2     Inspect                                                                                                -            -           -

2.26.21.3     Pack                                                                                                   -            -           -

2.26.21.4     Repair                                                                                                 -            -           -

2.26.21.5     Assemble                                                                                               -            -           -

2.26.21.6     Disassemble                                                                                            -            -           -




                                                                84
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                                   Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                               CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                 A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                  3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                            Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                            5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                          Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC
              AIRCREW FLIGHT EQUIPMENT
              CONTINUATION TRAINING(AFECT)
              PROGRAM
              TR: AFI 11-301V1; 16-1301,
2.27
              36-2201 , 36-2209, 11-2MDS Series;
              AFMAN 36-2236; Applicable MAJCOM
              Guidance; Air Force Master Lesson Plans
              AFMLP)
2.27.1        Instructor Responsibilities                                                                               -            B           B

2.27.2        Program Requirements                                                                                      -            -           B

2.27.3        Develop Program                                                                                           -            -           -

2.27.4        Develop Lesson Plan                                                                                       -            -           -

2.27.5        Develop Emergency Action Plan (EAP)                                                                       -            -           b

2.27.6        Instruct AFECT Lessons
              LL01 - Aircrew Flight Equipment
2.27.6.1                                                                                                                -            A           -
              Familiarization Training
2.27.6.2      LL04 - Aircrew Chemical Defense Training                                                                  -            A           -

2.27.6.3      LL06 - Aircrew Flight Equipment Training                                                                  -            A           -
              SUPERVISION
              (PEACETIME/ WARTIME)
              TR: AFMAN 10-2602,
2.28          Enlisted Classification Directory;
              AFI 11-301V1, 36-2201V1-V6,
              36-2406, 36-2503, 36-2618,
              36-2807, 36-2907, 36-2903
2.28.1        Responsibilities                                                                                          -            B           B

2.28.2        Orient Newly Assigned Personnel                     */R                                                   -            -           -

2.28.3        Assign Personnel to Work Duties                     */R                                                   -            -           -

2.28.4        Plan Work Assignments and Priorities                */R                                                   -            -           -

2.28.5        Schedule Work Assignments and Priorities            */R                                                   -            -           -

2.28.6        Establish Work Methods                              */R                                                   -            -           -

2.28.7        Establish Performance Standards                     */R                                                   -            -           -




                                                                   85
                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                                  Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                  CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                       2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                    A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                     3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                               Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                               5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                             Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.28.8        Acquisition                                                                                                  -            -           B

2.28.9        Civilian Staffing                                                                                            -            -           A

2.28.10       Establish Controls                                     */R                                                   -            -           -

2.28.11       Manage Manpower                                        */R                                                   -            -           a

2.28.12       Organization                                                                                                 -            -           A

2.28.13       Research and Development                                                                                     -            -           A

2.28.14       Resolve Technical Problems                             */R                                                   -            -           -

2.28.15       Facilities/Equipment

2.28.15.1     Fundamentals                                                                                                 -            -           B

2.28.15.2     Maintain Drying Towers and Winches                                                                           -            -           -

2.28.15.3     Maintain Vacuum Pumps                                                                                        -            -           -

2.28.16       Quality Assurance Program

2.28.16.1     Fundamentals                                                                                                 -            -           B
              Conduct Quality Assurance Program
2.28.16.2                                                                                                                  -            -           b
              Management
2.25.16.3     Analyze Quality Assurance Results                                                                            -            -           b

2.28.17       Quality Control Program

2.28.17.1     Fundamentals                                                                                                 -            B           B
              Conduct Quality Control
2.28.17.2                                                             *                                                    -            -           b
              Program Management
2.28.17.3     Conduct Quality Control Inspections                     *                                                    -            -           b

2.28.17.4     Evaluate work performance                               *                                                    -            -           b

2.28.17.5     Analyze Quality Control Results                         *                                                    -            -           b

2.28.17.6     Conduct In Process/Critical-point Inspection            *                                                    -            -           b
              AIRCREW FLIGHT EQUIPMENT
              TECHNICIAN TRAINING PROGRAM
2.29
              TR: AFPD 36-21, 36-22; AFI 36-2101,
              AFCAT 36-2223 (ETCA)


                                                                      86
                                                                                                                                   Attachment 2
                                                    Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                  CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                       2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                    A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                     3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                               Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                               5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                             Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.29.1        Fundamentals                                                                                                 -            B           B

2.29.2        Evaluate Personnel                                     */R                                                   -            -           -

2.29.3        Prepare Job Qualification Standards                    */R                                                   -            -           -

2.29.4        Develop Master Task List (MTL)                                                                               -            -           b

2.29.5        Conduct Technician Training                            */R                                                   -            -           -
              Conduct Task Evaluations/
2.29.6                                                               */R                                                   -            -           -
              Qualifications
2.29.7        Prepare Training Plan                                  */R                                                   -            -           -

2.29.8        Monitor Upgrade Training                               */R                                                   -            -           -

2.29.9        Monitor CDC Progress/Career knowledge                  */R                                                   -            -           -

2.29.10       Maintain Training Records                              */R                                                   -            -           -
               Evaluate Adequacy of Technical School
2.29.11        Graduates (Graduate Assessment Survey                                                                       -            -           -
               (GAS), Field Evaluation Questionnaire (FEQ)
              AIRCREW FLIGHT EQUIPMENT
              COMBAT OPERATIONS/ AIRCREW
              SURVIVABILITY
              TR: AFMAN 10-401V1; 10-2602, 10-100,
2.30
              32-4005; AFI 10-201,
              10-402, 10-403, 11-301V1-V2,
              24-201, 24-202, 32-4014V4,
               24-204 (I); AFPAM 91-216

2.30.1        Fundamentals                                                                                                 -            B           B
              Status of Resources and Training System
2.30.2                                                                                                                     -            -           B
              (SORTS) Report
              Air Expeditionary Force (AEF)
2.30.3                                                                                                                     -            -           B
              Reporting Tool (ART)
              Pilot/Non-Pilot Unit Type Code (UTC)
2.30.4                                                                                                                     -            B           B
              Responsibilities
2.30.5        Pre-Deployment Actions

2.30.5.1      Fundamentals                                                                                                 -            B           -

2.30.5.2      Planning                                                                                                     -            -           B
              Review Logistics Detail (LOGDET)/
2.30.5.3                                                                                                                   -            -           -
              Logistics Module (LOGMOD)



                                                                      87
                                                                                                                                   Attachment 2
                                                  Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                 CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                      2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                   A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                    3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                              Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                              5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                            Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC
              Review Designed Operational Capabilities
2.30.5.4                                                                                                                  -            -           -
              (DOC) Statements
2.30.5.5      Assess Unit Readiness Status                                                                                -            -           -

2.30.5.6      Pallet Build-Up                                                                                             -            -           B

2.30.5.7      Hazardous Material Processing                                                                               -            -           B

2.30.5.8      Deployment Operations Sustainment                                                                           -            B           -
              AIRCREW ARMORY
              TR: TO 11W3-3-5-1, 11W3-3-5-4; AFI 11-
2.31
              301V1, 21-201, 31-101, 31-207, 36-2217;
              AFMAN 31-229; AFCAT 21-209V1
2.31.1        Responsibilities                                                                                            -            -           -

2.31.2        Set-up                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.31.3        Arms Room Attendant                                                                                         -            -           -

2.31.4        Clearing Barrel Supervisor Responsibilities                                                                 -            -           -

2.31.5        Issue                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.31.6        Load                                                                                                        -            -           -

2.31.7        Clear                                                                                                       -            -           -

2.31.8        Handle                                                                                                      -            -           -

2.31.9        Store Weapons/Ammunition                                                                                    -            -           -

2.31.10       Receipt/Turn-in                                                                                             -            -           -

2.31.11       Perform Inspections                                                                                         -            -           -
              Transporting Weapons/
2.31.12                                                                                                                   -            -           -
              Ammunition
              MISHAP/PHYSIOLOGICAL
2.32          INVESTIGATION
              TR: AFI 11-301V1, 91-204
2.32.1        Types                                                                                                       -            B           B

2.32.2        Aircrew Flight Equipment Analysis                                                                           -            -           B

2.32.3        Conduct Mishap Investigation                                                                                -            -           -



                                                                     88
                                                                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                                  Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                              CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

1. Tasks                                                   2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                           Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                 3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                           Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                           5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                         Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.32.4        Physiological Incident (PI) Response                                                                     -            -           B
              Parachute Malfunction Reporting for
2.32.5                                                                                                                 -            -           -
              Premeditated Parachute Systems
              AIRCRAFT FLIGHTLINE MAINTENANCE
              TR: TO 14D3-10-1; AFI 21-101,
2.33
              21-112; Applicable Aircraft Job Guides;
              Applicable Safe for Maintenance Guides
2.33.1        Aircraft Safe for Maintenance Inspection                                                                 -            -           -

2.33.2        Aircraft Forms Documentation                                                                             -            B           -
              Red X Inspection for Aircraft-Installed
2.33.3                                                    *       *                                                    -            -           -
              Equipment
2.33.4        Mission Termination Inspection (MTI)                                                                     -            -           -
              GROUND EMERGENCY EGRESS
              TR: TO 00-105E-9, 11A-1-33 ;
2.34                                                                                                                   -            -            -
              AFI 21-112, 21-101;
              Applicable Aircraft Flight Manuals




                                                                  89
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                                Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                                 CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

           Change 1, January 2014
1. Tasks                                                      2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                   A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                    3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                              Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                              5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                            Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC
              AUTOMATED DATA SYSTEMS
2.3           TR: AFI 25-201, 33-112, 33-119, 33-332, 33-
              360V1, 38-401; Applicable User's Manuals
              Flight Equipment Records Management
2.3.2
              System (FERMS)
2.3.2.3       Aircrew In/Out Processing                                                                                   -            -           -

2.3.8         Electronic Records Management (ERM)                                                                         -            -           -

2.3.9         Continuous Improvement/Suggestion Program                                                                   -            -           -
              COMMUNICATIONS/ OPERATIONS
              SECURITY VULNERABILITIES OF AFSC
2.4
              1P0X1
              TR: AFI 10-701, 31-401
2.4.9         Voice Over Secure Internet Protocol (VOSIP)                                                                 -            -           -
              TEST EQUIPMENT/SPECIAL TOOLS
2.7           TR: TO 33D Series, 33K-1-100,
              Commercial Manuals
2.7.2.31      MH-2 Tester TR: 15X5-4-1-101                                                                                -            -           -

2.7.2.32      HMIT Preflight Tester TR: 14P3-4-195-2                                                                      -            -           -
              COMPOSITE TOOL KIT (CTK)
2.9
              TR: AFI 11-301
2.9.3         Manage CTK Program                                                                                          -            -           -
              SHOP EQUIPMENT
2.10          TR: TO 00-20-7, 34-1-3, TO 14D3-11-1,
              TO 14S-1-102-11, Commercial Manual
2.10.12       Shop Vacuum Machine                                                                                         -            -           -

2.10.13       Vise                                                                                                        -            -           -

2.11.2.9      Darning Machine

2.11.2.9.1    Nomenclature                                                                                                -            -           -

2.11.2.9.2    Operate                                                                                                     -            -           -

2.11.2.9.3    Troubleshoot                                                                                                -            -           -

2.11.2.9.4    Time                                                                                                        -            -           -



                                                                     90
                                                                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                                Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                            CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014


            Change 1, January 2014
1. Tasks                                                 2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                         Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                              A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                               3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                         Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                         5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                       Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.11.2.9.5    Adjust                                                                                                  -           -           -

2.11.2.10     Double Needle Machine

2.11.2. 10.1 Nomenclature                                                                                             -           -           -

2.11.2. 10.2 Operate                                                                                                  -           -           -

2.11.2. 10.3 Troubleshoot                                                                                             -           -           -

2.11.2. 10.4 Time                                                                                                     -           -           -

2.11.2. 10.5 Adjust                                                                                                   -           -           -

2.14.2        CSU-13B/P G-Suit

2.14.2.6      Inspect MC-1/Riser Cutter Knife                                                                         -           -           -
              BREATHING EQUIPMENT
              TR: TO 14P3-1-161, 15X-1-1,
              15X1-4-2-4, 15X5-3-6-1,
2.15
              15X5-4-1-101, 15X5-5-3-1,
              15X5-2-4-1, 15X5-4-8-1;
              Commercial Manuals
              High-Altitude, High-Pressure Oxygen
2.15.21
              System (HAHPOS)
2.15.21.1     Fundamentals                                                                                            -           -           -

2.15. 21.2    Fit                                                                                                     -           -           -

2.15. 21.3    Inspect                                                                                                 -           -           -

2.15. 21.4    Assemble                                                                                                -           -           -

2.15. 21.5    Disassemble                                                                                             -           -           -

2.15. 21.6    Modify                                                                                                  -           -           -

2.15. 21.7    Repair                                                                                                  -           -           -




                                                                91
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                             Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                         CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

            Change 1, January 2014
1. Tasks                                              2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                      Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                           A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                            3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                      Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                      5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                    Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.16.8        GO-22 Jumper Helmet

2. 16.8.1     Fundamentals                                                                                         -           -           -

2. 16.8.2     Fit                                                                                                  -           -           -

2. 16.8.3     Inspect                                                                                              -           -           -

2. 16.8.4     Assemble                                                                                             -           -           -

2. 16.8.5     Disassemble                                                                                          -           -           -

2. 16.8.6     Repair                                                                                               -           -           -

2. 16.8.7     Modify                                                                                               -           -           -

2.19.2.7      Decontaminate ACCA work area                                                                         -           -           -

2.20.1        Personnel Recovery Communication

2.20.1.2      JPRC Knowledge Wall                                                                                  -           -           -

2.20.1.3      SITREP                                                                                               -           -           -

2.21.6        LPU-40/P

2.21.6.1      Fundamentals                                                                                         -           -           -

2.21.6.2      Inspect                                                                                              -           -           -

2.21.6.3      Pack                                                                                                 -           -           -

2.21.6.4      Repair                                                                                               -           -           -

2.23.5        Escape Slide Cylinder

2.23.5.4      Remove (KC-135 only)

2.23.5.5      Install (KC-135 only)

2.23.6        Escape Slide Battery

2.23.6.1      Test                                                                                                 -           -           -

2.23.6.2      Remove/Install                                                                                       -           -           -


                                                             92
                                                                                                                          Attachment 2
                                                Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                              CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

            Change 1, January 2014
1. Tasks                                                   2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                           Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                 3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                           Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                           5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                         Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.26.19       T-6A Seat Survival Kit (SSK)

2.26.19.3     Fundamentals                                                                                              -           -           -

2.26.19.4     Assemble                                                                                                  -           -           -

2.26.19.5     Disassemble                                                                                               -           -           -

2.26.22       T-1 Air Force Survival Kit (AFSK-7)

2.26.22.1     Inspect                                                                                                   -           -           -

2.26.22.2     Pack                                                                                                      -           -           -
              Manual Reverse Osmosis Desalinator
2.26.23
              (MROD-06-LL-01)
2.26.23.1     Fundamentals                                                                                              -           -           -

2.26.23.2     Inspect                                                                                                   -           -           -

2.26.24       Pyrotechnic/Explosive Devices

2.26.24.1     Inspect                                                                                                   -           -           -

2.26.25       A/P25S-5A or B, Personal Distress Signal

2.26.25.1     Handling                                                                                                  -           -           -

2.26.25.2     Inspect                                                                                                   -           -           -

2.26.26       FLU-9/P, Automatic Inflation Device

2.26.26.1     Handling                                                                                                  -           -           -

2.26.26.2     Inspect                                                                                                   -           -           -

2.26.27       MK-124, Smoke & Illumination Signal

2.26.27.1     Handling                                                                                                  -           -           -

2.26.27.2     Inspect                                                                                                   -           -           -




                                                                  93
                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                                  Specialty Training Standard

                                                                                               CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014

           Change 1, January 2014
1. Tasks                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                          Training/Information Provided

 Knowledge                                                 A       B       A       B       C         D       E          A            B           C
 And                                                                                                                  3 Skill      5-Skill     7-Skill
 Technical                                                                                                            Level        Level       Level
 References
                                                            5       7     Tng     Tng    Trainee Trainer Certifier     (1)           (2)         (2)
                                                          Level   Level   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials   Course        CDC         CDC

2.27.6        Instruct AFECT Lessons

2.27.6.4      LL07 - Aircrew Flight Equipment Fit Check                                                                  -           -           -
              AIRCRAFT FLIGHTLINE MAINTENANCE
              TR: TO 14D3-10-1; AFI 21-101,
2.33
              21-112; Applicable Aircraft Job Guides;
              Applicable Safe for Maintenance Guides
2.33.4.1      Pre-position/Remove Aircraft AFE                                                                           -           -           -

2.33.5        Redball Rapid Response Procedures                                                                          -           -           -




                                                                   94
                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                              Aircraft Type Specific Requirements

                                                                                                        CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014
Minimum Weapon System Duty Tasks.
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical References listed in first column.

NOTE 1: Mission Design Series (MDS) specific training requirements (core tasks) for an individual to become duty position qualified on a particular
aircraft.
NOTE 2: Based on availability of equipment, technical data, and tools, the AFE Superintendent may waive (in writing) up to 5% of these requirements.
The AFE Superintendent is the waiver authority for tasks identified in this Attachment.
NOTE 3: All tasks identified with a pound sign (#) in the column are required for that particular MDS. All tasks identified with the letter R in the column are
required only for AFRC.
NOTE 4: Tasks will be included in the unit's Master Task Listing (MTL) and identified in accordance with 1P0X1 CFETP, paragraph 14.7.1.
NOTE 5: AFE Superintendents supporting MDSs not listed here will establish a minimum duty task listing similar to this and incorporate it into their Master
Training Plan.
5-SKILL LEVEL CORE TASKS                                                 C-130       C-17       C-5    Fighter     Bomb       HELO      GAW     Tanker     C-40

3.1       (Task 2.7.2.1) Anti-Exposure Suit Air Test Device                  #         #         #         #         #           #                  #         #


3.2       (Task 2.7.2.4) ANV-20/20 (Hoffman)                                 #         #                   #         #          #         #


3.3       (Task 2.7.2.3) ANV-126 Series                                      #         #                   #         #          #         #


3.4       (Task 2.7.2.6) Battery Testers                                     #         #         #         #         #          #         #         #         #


3.5       (Task 2.7.2.10) DMH-1/LSHT-1                                       #         #         #         #         #                    #         #         #


3.6       (Task 2.7.2.12) Hydrothermograph                                   #         #         #         #         #                    #         #         #


3.7       (Task 2.7.2.13) Multimeter                                         #         #         #         #         #                    #         #         #


3.8       (Task 2.7.2.15) Pressure Gauges                                    #         #         #         #         #          #         #         #         #


3.9      (Task 2.7.2.16) Push/Pull Scale                                     #         #         #         #         #          #         #         #         #

3.10     (Task 2.7.2.17) SCOT Communications and                             #         #         #                   #                    #         #         #
         Oxygen Systems Tester

3.11      (Task 2.7.2.18) SCOT Release Tester                                #         #         #                                        #


3.12      (Task 2.7.2.19) Torque Devices                                     #         #         #         #         #          #         #         #         #


3.13      (Task 2.7.2.21) TS-4317-3 (RCTS-003)                               #         #         #         #         #          #         #         #         #


3.14      (Task 2.7.2.23) Life Raft Test Fixture                             #         #         #         #         #          #         #         #         #


3.15      (Task 2.7.2.25) Weight Scales                                      #         #         #         #         #          #         #         #         #


3.16     (Task 2.7.2.28) Altitude CAST                                                                     #

3.17     (Task 2.12.4.3) Repair Protective Covers                           R          R         R         R         R         R         R          R        R


3.18     (Task 2.12.5.3) Repair (Upholstery)                                R          R         R                             R         R          R        R


3.19     (Task 2.12.6.3) Repair (Soundproofing)                             R         R         R                    R         R         R         R         R


3.20     (Task 2.12.7.2) Inspect (Aircraft Thermal                                                                   #                             #
         Radiation Barrier/Curtains

3.21     (Task 2.13.1.4) Inspect (OTS)                                                                               #         #


3.22     (Task 2.13.2.2) Inspect (CWU-16/P)                                  #         #         #                                                 #          #


                                                                             95
                                                                                                                                       Attachment 3
                                     Aircraft Type Specific Requirements

                                                                            CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014
5-SKILL LEVEL CORE TASKS                               C-130   C-17   C-5   Fighter   Bomb   HELO   GAW   Tanker   C-40

                                                                #     #        #                            #
3.23    (Task 2.13.5.3) Inspect (CWU-74/P)
 3.27
3.24    (Task
        (Task 2.14.2.3)
              2.14.3.3) Inspect
                        Inspect (CSU-13B/P G-Suit)
                                (CSU-17/P Vest)                                #


3.25    (Task 2.15.4.2) Inspect (CRU-60/P)                #     #      #               #                     #


3.26    (Task 2.15.8.2) Inspect (CRU-122/P)                                                                         #

3.27    (Task 2.15.9.2) Inspect (Custom Made Mask)        #     #      #       #       #                     #


3.28    (Task 2.15.10.2) Inspect (EPOS)                   #     #      #                                     #


3.29    (Task 2.15.11.1) Inspect (EROS)                         #      #                                     #       #


3.30    (Task 2.15.12.3) Inspect (MBU-12/P)               #     #      #               #                     #

3.31    (Task 2.15.13.3) Inspect (MBU-20/P Series)        #     #      #       #       #                     #

3.32    (Task 2.15.14.2) Inspect (Passenger Oxygen        #     #      #                                     #      #
        Mask
3.33    (Task 2.15.15.2) Inspect (PBE/EEBD)               #     #      #                                     #      #


3.34    (Task 2.15.16.2) Inspect Scot 358 Series          #     #      #                                     #      #


3.35    (Task 2.15.18.2) Inspect (Smoke Mask)             #     #      #                                     #


3.36    (Task 2.16.2.3) Inspect (HGU-55/P)                #     #      #       #       #                     #

3.37    (Task 2.18.2.2) Inspect (EEU-2/P and - 2A/P)                                                         #

3.38    (Task 2.18.5.3) Inspect (AN/AVS-9 (F4949))        #     #              #       #      #


3.39    (Task 2.18.14.2) Inspect (ALEP/Block 0)           #     #      #                      #              #       #


3.40    (Task 2.18.15.2) Inspect (ALEP/Block 0+)          #     #      #                      #              #       #


3.41    (Task 2.18.16.2) Inspect (ALEP/Block 1)           #     #      #                      #              #       #


3.42    (Task 2.18.17.2) Inspect (ALEP/Block 2)                 #      #       #       #      #              #       #


3.43    (Task 2.19.3.2) Inspect (CQU-7/P Blower)          #     #      #       #       #      #              #


3.44    (Task 2.19.4.3) Inspect (CWU-66/P Coveralls)      #     #      #       #       #      #              #       #


3.45    (Task 2.19.7.3) Inspect (MBU-19/P Mask)           #     #      #       #       #      #              #

3.46    (Task 2.19.8.2) Inspect (MXU-835/P Intercom       #     #      #       #       #      #              #
        Unit)

3.47    (Task 2.20.2.2) Inspect (ACR/MS-2000M Strobe      #     #      #       #       #      #       #      #       #
        Light)
3.48    (Task 2.20.3.2) Inspect (AN/PRQ-7 Series          #     #      #       #       #      #              #       #
        Radio)



                                                         96
                                                                                                    Attachment 3
                                     Aircraft Type Specific Requirements

                                                                              CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014
5-SKILL LEVEL CORE TASKS                                 C-130   C-17   C-5   Fighter   Bomb   HELO   GAW   Tanker   C-40

3.49   (Task 2.20.4.2) Inspect (GPS Receivers)              #     #      #       #       #      #       #      #


3.50   (Task 2.20.6.2) Inspect (PRC-112 Series Radios)      #     #      #       #       #      #              #       #

3.51   (Task (2.20.8.2.2) Inspect (URT-44 Series            #     #              #       #
       Personnel Locator Beacons)
3.52   (Task (2.21.1.2) Inspect (Adult/Child Life           #     #      #                                     #       #
       Preserver)

3.53   (Task (2.21.1.3) Pack (Adult/Child Life              #     #      #                                     #       #
       Preserver)

3.54   (Task (2.21.5) Install/inspect accessories           #     #      #                                     #       #
       (Adult/Child Life Preserver

3.55   (Task 2.21.2.2) Inspect (LPU-6/P)                    #     #      #                                     #       #


3.56   (Task 2.21.2.3) Pack (LPU-6/P)                       #     #      #                                     #       #

3.57   (Task 2.21.2.5) Install/inspect accessories          #     #      #                                     #       #
       (LPU-6/P)

3.58   (Task 2.21.4.3) Inspect (LPU-10/P)                   #     #      #                      #       #      #       #


3.59   (Task 2.21.4.4) Pack (LPU-10/P)                      #     #      #                      #       #      #       #


3.60   (Task 2.21.5.3) Inspect (LPU-38/P)                                        #       #


3.61   (Task 2.21.5.4) Pack (LPU-38/P)                                           #       #


3.62   (Task 2.22.1.2) Inspect (LRU-16/P)                   #     #      #       #       #              #


3.63   (Task 2.22.3.2) Inspect (20-Man (F-2B))              #                                                  #


3.64   (Task 2.22.3.3) Pack (20-Man (F-2B))                 #                                                  #


3.65   (Task 2.22.4.2) Inspect (25-Man)                           #      #


3.66   (Task 2.22.4.3) Pack (25-Man)                              #      #


3.67   (Task 2.22.5.2) Inspect (46-Person)                        #


3.68   (Task 2.22.5.3) Pack (46-Person)                           #


3.69   (Task 2.23.2) Inspect (Escape Slide)                              #                                     #

3.70   (Task 2.24.6.1.2) Inspect (ACES II Personal                               #
       Recovery Assembly)
3.71   (Task 2.24.6.1.3) Pack (ACES II Personal                                  #
       Recovery Assembly)

3.72   (Task 2.24.6.5.3) Inspect (BA Series Parachute)      #     #




                                                           97
                                                                                                      Attachment 3
                                    Aircraft Type Specific Requirements

                                                                              CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014
5-SKILL LEVEL CORE TASKS                                 C-130   C-17   C-5   Fighter   Bomb   HELO   GAW   Tanker   C-40

3.73   (Task 2.24.6.5.4) Pack (BA Series Parachute)         #     #


3.74   (Task 2.24.6.8.1) Inspect (MC1-1C/D)                                                             #


3.75   (Task 2.24.6.8.2) Pack (MC1-1C/D)                                                                #


3.76   (Task 2.24.6.13.2) Inspect (MC-6)                                                                #


3.77   (Task 2.24.6.13.3) Pack (MC-6)                                                                   #


3.78   (Task 2.24.6.14.1) Inspect (MIRPS)                                                               #


3.79   (Task 2.24.6.14.2) Pack (MIRPS)                                                                  #


3.80   (Task 2.24.6.17.2) Inspect (T-11R (Reserve))                                                     #


3.81   (Task 2.24.6.17.3) Pack (T-11R (Reserve))                                                        #

3.82   (Task 2.24.6.28.2) Inspect (SOV-3HH (Main                                                        #
       parachute 8 ring)

3.83   (Task 2.24.6.28.2) Inspect (SOV-3HH (Main                                                        #
       parachute 6 ring)

3.84   (Task 2.24.6.34.3) Inspect (Torso Harness)                                #       #

3.85   (Task 2.24.6.35.1) Inspect (PCU-17/P Restraint       #     #      #                      #              #
       Harness)

3.86   (Task 2.24.7.1.2) Inspect (ACES II Drogue Sys)                            #


3.87   (Task 2.24.7.1.4) Pack (ACES II Drogue Sys)                               #


3.88   (Task 2.25.1.2) Remove (Beacon)                      #     #              #       #


3.89   (Task 2.25.1.3) Install (Beacon)                     #     #              #       #


3.90   (Task 2.25.9.3.2) Inspect (SCOT Release)             #     #                      #


3.91   (Task 2.26.1.2) Inspect (ACES II Survival Kit)                            #       #


3.92   (Task 2.26.1.4) Pack (ACES II Survival Kit)                               #       #


3.93   (Task 2.26.2.3) Inspect (Air Ace Survival Vest)      #     #      #       #       #                     #       #


3.94   (Task 2.26.3.3) Inspect (Airsave Survival Vest)            #      #               #                     #


3.95   (Task 2.26.4.3) Inspect (CIACS Eagle Vest)           #                                   #


3.96   (Task 2.26.5.3) Inspect (Air Warrior System)               #      #                                     #


3.97   (Task 2.26.6.1) Inspect (MSK)                        #     #      #                                     #


3.98   (Task 2.26.6.2) Pack (MSK)                           #     #      #                                     #




                                                           98
                                                                                                      Attachment 3
                                   Aircraft Type Specific Requirements

                                                                             CFETP 1P0X1, 1 January 2014


5-SKILL LEVEL CORE TASKS                                C-130   C-17   C-5   Fighter   Bomb   HELO   GAW   Tanker   C-40


3.99   (Task 2.26.7.1) Inspect (PCK)                       #     #      #                                     #


3.100 (Task 2.26.7.2) Pack (PCK)                           #     #      #                                     #


3.101 (Task 2.26.8.3) Inspect (Aircrew Body Armor)         #     #      #       #       #      #              #       #


3.102 (Task 2.26.10.2) Inspect (CNU-129/P Kit)                                          #


3.103 (Task 2.26.10.3) Pack (CNU-129/P Kit)                                             #


3.104 (Task 2.26.10.5) Install (CNU-129/P Kit)                                          #


3.105 (Task 2.26.10.6) Remove (CNU-129/P Kit)                                           #


3.106 (Task 2.26.14.2) Inspect (ML-4 Kit)                  #     #      #               #              #


3.107 (Task 2.26.14.3) Pack (ML-4 Kit)                     #     #      #               #              #


3.108 (Task 2.26.15.2) Inspect (Multi-Place Life Raft      #     #      #                      #              #
      Accessory Container)
3.109 (Task 2.26.15.3) Pack (Multi-Place Life Raft         #     #      #                      #              #
      Accessory Container)




                                                          99
                                                                                                     Attachment 3
