DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                          CFETP 8M000
Headquarters US Air Force                                             Parts I and II
Washington DC 20330-1030                                              01 May 2013




                AFSC 8M000
        SPECIAL DUTY IDENTIFIER (SDI)
                  POSTAL




            CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
              AND TRAINING PLAN

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing Web site at
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                               CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                                POSTAL
                                               SDI 8M000
                                                                Table of Contents
PART I
Preface .......................................................................................................................................................... 3
Abbreviations/Terms Explained .................................................................................................................... 4
Section A - General Information .................................................................................................................. 8
Purpose of the CFETP
Use of the CFETP
Coordination and Approval of the CFETP
Section B - Opportunities and Information ................................................................................................... 9
Specialty Description
Specialty Summary
Duties and Responsibilities
Skills and Career Progression
Postal Duty Descriptions
Training Decisions
Community College of the Air Force Academic Programs
8M000 Career Pyramid
Section C - 8M000 Training Requirements ................................................................................................ 14
Special Duty Qualification Requirements
Training Sources
Section D - Resource Constraints .............................................................................................................. 15
Purpose
Constraints
Section E - Transition Training Guide ........................................................................................................ 16




                                                                                       1
Part II
Section A - Specialty Training Standard .................................................................................................... 17
Section B - Course Objective List .............................................................................................................. 52
Section C - Support Materials .................................................................................................................... 52
Section D - Training Course Index ............................................................................................................. 52
Purpose
Interservice Postal Training Activity (IPTA) In-Residence Courses
Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Courses
Exportable Courses
Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements ............................................................................................. 52




OPR: 336TRS/TRR
Approved By: CMSgt. Robert B. Jackson AFCFM (SAF/A3CF/A6CF)
Supersedes: CFETP 8M000, dated 01 Aug10 w/ 01 Oct 10 C1
Pages: 53




                                                                               2
                                           POSTAL
                                          SDI 8M000
                          CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
PART I
Preface
1. We are all Airmen, first and foremost, as highlighted in our Airman’s Creed. As Postal professionals,
we are the Air Force extension of the United States Postal Service (USPS) overseas for personal and
official mail service.
2. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) identifies the life-cycle education/training
requirements, training support resources, and minimum core task requirements for the Special Duty
Identifier (SDI) 8M000, Postal. The CFETP provides personnel a clear path to success and instills rigor in
all aspects of SDI training.
3. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors use both parts to plan, manage, and control training
within the SDI.
3.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of training in the 8M000 SDI. Section
A explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies the SDI specialty description, specialty
summary, duties and responsibilities, skills and career progression information, postal duty descriptions,
Community College of the Air Force information, and the 8M000 career pyramid. Section C identifies SDI
qualification requirements and training sources. Section D focuses on resource constraints. Section E
identifies transition-training plans for the 8M000 career field.
3.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and
includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training, Interservice Postal Training Activity (IPTA)
conducted training, core and qualification tasks, and unit type code (UTC) mission capability (MISCAP)
training requirements. Sections B and C are not used. Section D identifies training courses available to
the SDI 8M000. Section E is reserved.
4. Using guidance provided in the CFETP ensures individuals in this SDI receive effective and efficient
training. At the unit level, supervisors and trainers use Part II to identify, plan and conduct training
commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                          3
                                     Abbreviations/Terms Explained
This section provides a common understanding of the terms applicable to the postal Career Field
Education and Training Plan.
Advanced Training (AT). Formal course that provides individuals who are qualified in one or more
positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills and knowledge to enhance their expertise
in the career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.
Air Education and Training Command (AETC). AETC recruits new personnel into the
US Air Force and provides them with military, technical, and flying training. AETC also provides
precommissioning, professional military and continuing education. AETC is responsible for the free
world’s largest training system.
Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD). The official directory for all military enlisted
classification descriptions, codes, and identifiers. Establishes the occupational structure of the Air Force
enlisted force. The occupational structure is flexible to permit enlisted personnel to specialize and
develop their skills and abilities while allowing the Air Force to meet changing mission requirements.
Individual enlisted personnel have a joint responsibility with commanders and supervisors at all levels to
fully develop their abilities consistent with Air Force needs and within the established patterns of
specialization.
Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). The Air Force focal point for the designated career field
within a functional community. Serves as the primary advocate for the career field, addressing issues
and coordinating functional concerns across various staffs. Responsible for the career field policy and
guidance.
Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list describing a particular job
type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualification. The tasks on AFJQSs
are common to all personnel serving in the described duty position.
Air Force Qualification Training Package (AFQTP). An instructional document designed for use at the
unit to qualify or aid qualification in a duty position, program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be
printed, computer-based, or other audiovisual media.
Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC). Alphanumeric identifiers of occupational specialties of Airmen and
their skill levels: helper (1 level), apprentice (3 level), journeyman (5 level), craftsman (7 level), or
superintendent (9 level).
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A comprehensive core training document that
identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements; training support resources, and minimum core
task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give personnel a clear path and instill a sense of
industry in career field training. It is the formal training contract between the AFCFM and AETC for formal
accession and life cycle skills training (AFI 36-2201). CFETPs are officially posted at http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil.
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE) Task Qualification
Training (TQT). CBRNE TQT ensures personnel maintain proficiency in performing mission-critical tasks
in a CBRNE environment. See AFI 10-2501 and AFMAN 10-2602 for additional
information/requirements.
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) Code. CEM codes identify all chief master sergeant positions in the
Enlisted Classification Structure. They also identify chief master sergeants who, through extensive
experience and training, have demonstrated managerial ability to plan, direct, coordinate, implement, and
control a wide range of work activity. Some managerial duties and responsibilities that are common to all
chief enlisted managers are: managing and directing personnel resource activities; interpreting and
enforcing policy and applicable directives; establishing control procedures to meet work goals and
standards; recommending or initiating actions to improve functional operation efficiency; planning and
programming work commitments and schedules; developing plans regarding facilities, supplies, and
equipment procurement and maintenance.



                                                          4
Community of Practice (CoP). A group of people connected to each other by a need to solve common
problems, develop skills, and share common practices. A CoP typically shares a common responsibility
or function. Community members collaborate to more effectively accomplish their mission.
Computer Based Training (CBT). A forum for training where a student learns by executing special
training programs on a computer.
Continuation Training. Additional advanced training that exceeds the minimum upgrade training
requirements and emphasizes present or future duty assignments.
Core Competency. An integrated bundle of expert knowledge and organizational skills inherent to a
particular career field(s) which makes a disproportionate contribution to the success of providing the right
skills needed for military operations, anywhere, anytime. It cannot be duplicated by any other
organization, and is critical for the future.
Core Knowledge. A general knowledge requirement identified within an Air Force specialty. This
document identifies core knowledge items by a double asterisk (**).
Core Task. Tasks the AFCFM identifies as minimum qualifications for everyone within an AFSC. Core
tasks may be adjusted for duty position requirements or deployment training, as determined by the
AFCFM. This document identifies core tasks by a single asterisk (*).
Course Training Standard (CTS). A task that requires specific training and certification prioritized
above other tasks. Tasks may be defined as critical either through AFI, technical orders, higher
headquarters, or at any level in the unit.
Duty Position Tasks. The tasks assigned to an individual for the position currently held. These include
as a minimum all core tasks that correspond to the duty position, and tasks assigned by the supervisor.
Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA). Located at https://etca.randolph.af.mil, the
ETCA contains specific MAJCOM procedures, fund cite instructions, reporting instructions, and listings for
those formal courses the MAJCOMs or field operating agencies (FOA) conduct or manage. The ETCA
contains courses the AF and reserve forces conduct or administer and serves as a reference for the AF,
DoD, other military services, government agencies, and security assistance programs. The ETCA
replaced the course announcements found in AFCAT 36-2233, USAF Formal Schools
Catalog.
Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training
(on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.
Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, customer
based training (CBT), or other necessary means to supplement training.
Functional Area Manager (FAM). The individual accountable for the management and oversight of all
personnel and equipment within a specific functional area to support the operational planning and
execution. Responsibilities include, but are not limited to, developing and reviewing policy; developing,
managing, and maintaining UTCs; developing criteria for and monitoring readiness reporting; force
posturing; and analysis. At each level of responsibility (Headquarters Air Force, MAJCOM, Air
Component, FOA, DRU, and Unit), the FAM should be the most highly knowledgeable and experienced
person within the functional area and have the widest range of visibility over the functional area readiness
and capability issues.
Functional Manager (FM). An individual assigned collateral responsibility for training, classification,
utilization, and career development of personnel assigned to a particular organization and AFSC.
Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level award for enlisted (AFI
36-2201).
Knowledge Training. Training used to provide a base of knowledge for task performance. It may also
be used in lieu of task performance when the training capability does not exist. Learning gained through
knowledge rather than hands-on experience (AFI 36-2201).




                                                          5
Master Task List (MTL). A comprehensive list (100%) of all tasks performed within a work center and
consisting of the current CFETP or AFJQS and locally developed AF Forms 797 (as a minimum). Should
include tasks required for deployment and/or UTC requirements.
Master Training Plan (MTP). Employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all work center job
requirements by using a MTL and provides milestones for task, CDC completion, and prioritizes
deployment/UTC, home station training tasks, upgrade, and qualification tasks.
Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey
of tasks performed within a particular AFSC. This data is used to develop the Specialty Knowledge Tests
(SKT), conducted by the AETC Occupational Analysis Division.
On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify personnel in both
upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training.
Proficiency Code: Level of knowledge or task performance required by the trainee at the Interservice
Postal Training Activity or during OJT.
Qualification Training. Hands-on performance training designed to qualify personnel in a specific
position. This training occurs both during and after upgrade training to maintain up-to-date qualifications.
Skill Progression Training. Training toward a portion of an AFS without a change in AFSC. It is formal
training on equipment, methods, and technology that are not suited for OJT and not included in AFS
upgrade training.
Special Duty Identifiers (SDI). SDIs identify authorizations for enlisted Airmen assigned to and
performing an actual group of tasks on a semi-permanent or permanent duty basis.
Special Experience Identifier (SEI): SEIs are established to identify special experience and training not
otherwise identified within the Personnel Delivery System (PDS). SEIs compliment the assignment
process, but are not substitutes for AFSCs, CEM codes, prefixes, suffixes, SDIs, reporting identifiers (RI),
personnel processing codes, or professional specialty course codes. SEIs are established when
identifying experience or training is critical to the job and person assignment match, and no other
identification is appropriate or available. SEIs can be used to rapidly identify an already experienced
resource to meet unique circumstances, contingency requirements, or management needs. SEIs provide
a means to track individuals and identify positions requiring or providing unique experience or training that
would otherwise be lost.
Specialty Training Requirements Team. A meeting chaired by the AFCFM with MAJCOM FMs, AETC
Training Managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) and HQ AETC Occupational Analysis Division
(OAD)in attendance. Typically held three months prior to a Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) to
finalize any CFETP changes or enlisted classification directory descriptions.
Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force specialty in
terms of tasks and knowledge that an Airman must perform or to know on the job. Also identifies the
training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract
between AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an Air Force
Specialty Code (AFSC) are taught in formal schools and correspondence courses.
Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept established and defined by authority,
custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities or qualities,
establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. It is a fixed quantity or quality.
Trainer. A trained and qualified person who teaches personnel to perform specific tasks through OJT
methods. Also, equipment that the trainer uses to teach personnel specified tasks.
Training Business Area (TBA). A net-centric, GCSS-AF web-based training application that provides
Air Force warfighters with global, real-time visibility into qualifications, certifications, and training status of
communications professionals across the AF. TBA supports base, wing, and work center training
management activities by automating business processes and capabilities to eliminate paper-based
practices. The system centralizes management of training task data, provides user access to
CFETPs/JQSs, and increases security through a single AF Portal log on.



                                                             6
Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a Utilization and Training
Workshop (U&TW), TPTs are more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues
examined is greater than in the U&TW forum.
Unit Type Code (UTC). A five-character alphanumeric designator uniquely identifying each type unit in
the Armed Forces.
Upgrade Training. Mandatory training which leads to attainment of a higher level of proficiency.
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum, co-chaired by the AFCFM and the Training
Pipeline Manager, and a team of MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional managers,
Subject Matter Experts (SME), and AETC training personnel who determine career ladder training
requirements.
Wartime Task. Those tasks that must be taught when courses are accelerated in a wartime
environment. These tasks are identified in the CFETP Part II, Section A, STS. In response to a wartime
scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3- level course in a streamlined training environment. These
tasks are only for those career fields that still need them applied to their schoolhouse tasks.




                                                        7
Section A - General Information
1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides the information necessary for functional managers,
training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, conduct, and document an
effective and efficient special duty training program. The plan outlines the training individuals in SDI
8M000 must receive in order to develop and progress throughout their postal careers. Initial qualification
training is the SDI-specific training an individual receives upon entering into the SDI. The Interservice
Postal School, Fort Jackson SC, provides this training. Additional hands-on task performance
qualification training is provided to qualify an Airman in specific postal duty positions and may include
attending supplementary training at the Interservice Postal School. This training is designed to provide
the performance skills/knowledge training required to do the job. Continuation training is additional
training provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge. The CFETP has several purposes:
1.1. Establishes baseline training requirements for initial qualification for postal duties.
1.2. Identifies the core task and knowledge training requirements for performing postal duties.
1.3. Lists the training courses available for qualifying postal personnel.
1.4. Identifies opportunities within the postal SDI and describes the duty requirements for each major
duty position.
1.5. Identifies the requirements for in-service training and professional development, as well as earning
the CCAF degree.
1.6. Identifies resource constraints impacting implementation of the desired career field education and
training program.
2. Use of the CFETP. The 8M Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) maintains the CFETP.
MAJCOM Functional Managers and AETC review the plan annually to ensure currency and accuracy and
forward recommended changes to the AFCFM. Using the list of courses in Part II, they determine
whether duplicate training exists and take steps to eliminate/prevent duplicate efforts. Training managers
at all levels use the plan to ensure a comprehensive and cohesive training program is available for each
individual in the SDI.
2.1. Postal training managers and supervisors manage and control progression through the SDI by
ensuring individuals complete the mandatory training requirements for duty qualification specified in this
plan and supplemented by their MAJCOM. The list of courses in Part II is used as a reference for
planning continuation or career enhancement training.
2.2. Submit recommended CFETP improvements/corrections to the SDI Training Manager at 336
TRS/TRR, 108 Phantom Drive, Keesler AFB MS 39534-2235, or call DSN 597-7783 / Comm 228-377-
7783. To contact electronically send e-mail to: 336TRS/TRR@us.af.mil.
3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority. MAJCOM
representatives and AETC training personnel coordinate career field training requirements. The AETC
training manager initiates an annual review of this document by AETC and MAJCOM functional managers
to ensure its currency and accuracy by using the list of courses in Part II to eliminate duplicate training.




                                                            8
Section B - Opportunities and Information
4. Specialty Description. This information supplements the postal SDI information presented in the Air
Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD).
4.1. Specialty Summary. Performs postal finance, mail handling, locator service, and mail distribution
functions.
4.2. Duties and Responsibilities:
4.2.1. Performs postal financial services. Sells postage stock. Responsible for postage stock issued by
accountable postmaster and funds derived from sale. Maintains adequate postage stock to service
patrons. Responsible for blank money orders issued by accountable postmaster. Sells and cashes
postal money orders. Remits funds from postage stock and money orders to United States Postal
Service (USPS).
4.2.2. Accepts items for mailing. Advises patrons of applicable postal and customs requirements.
Determines packing adequacy for acceptance. Computes charges for postage and special service fees.
Prepares appropriate special service forms and affixes appropriate endorsements. Safeguards and
accounts for items accepted as registered mail. Operates automated and manual scales. Maintains
separate accountability for postage validation imprinters, and official mail meters.
4.2.3. Performs receipt and dispatch functions. Provides security for all mail. Collects mail from mail
collection boxes. Postmarks and cancels outgoing mail. Checks for proper postage and verifies
forwarding endorsements. Separates and sorts mail into proper classes and destination or off-load
points. Ties sorted mail into bundles and affixes routing slips. Places mail in pouches or trays and
prepares and affixes routing labels. Prepares mail routing schemes. Prepares manifest for mail, and
ensures dispatch by most expeditious means consistent with established schedules and transportation
category. Receives incoming mail from military or commercial carriers. Checks manifest against mail
received to ensure proper receipt. Sorts incoming mail according to mail distribution schemes and
delivers mail to postal activities. Provides security for registered mail at military and commercial
terminals. Records accountable mail on receipts before delivery.
4.2.4. Performs mail delivery services. Sorts mail to unit mailroom or individual receptacle delivery
sequence. Distributes mail in mail receptacles, to unit mail clerks, or via delivery window. Measures mail
transit times. Issues and closes mail receptacles. Provides postal directory services. Scans inbound
mail to include delivery confirmation for upload to the Automated Military Postal System (AMPS).
4.2.5. Maintains postal records, prepares forms and reports, and performs postal supply functions.
Prepares and submits postal operations plans and reports. Maintains USPS publications, current mail
distribution schemes, military post office location lists, mail distribution instructions, and labeling catalogs.
Processes USPS claims for lost or damaged mail. Maintains adequate supply of postal forms and
equipment and requisitions replacement items.
5. Skills and Career Progression. Adequate training is essential to timely duty-position qualification of
personnel. Everyone involved in training must do their part to plan, manage, and conduct effective
training programs.
5.1. Unlike “typical” career fields such as personnel, maintenance, or supply, many postal professionals
may only serve a “tour” or two with the 8M000 SDI. However, some postal professionals will remain
within the SDI for the remainder of their career and be awarded SEI 088, Career Postal Airman. Others
may choose to flow in-and-out of the SDI. As such, it is challenging to identify a standardized or typical
career path an 8M000 might follow as they progress within the SDI. The 8M000 SDI career pyramid is
depicted in paragraph 8.
5.2. Postal Duty Descriptions. The following duties are performed by postal personnel:
5.2.1. MAJCOM Functional Manager. Provides managerial and operational postal guidance to postal
personnel throughout a command. Establishes theater-wide inspection criteria and conducts inspections
at postal activities for compliance with DoD and USPS directives. Conducts inspections, audits, monitors
remittance of postal finance transactions and investigates cases involving financial loss. Manages USPS
flexible accounting systems, accountable equipment, and provides guidance to post offices experiencing




                                                             9
difficulties. Advises senior command officials at HQ USAF, Military Postal Service Agency, and at
assigned MAJCOMs, to include Army, Navy, and Marines on postal issues when required. Manages the
command postal operations help desk to field questions from units experiencing difficulties.
5.2.2. Superintendent/Detachment Chief/Postmaster/Assistant Postmaster. Oversees all operational and
managerial matters of the postal facility. Schedules, assigns, and evaluates work of personnel.
Oversees postal finance transactions and directs the processing and delivery of incoming and outgoing
mail. Ensures receipt and dispatch of mail, directory service, in- and out-processing, postal indemnity
claim processing, mail control activity support, and official mail management. Assures mail security and
compliance with USPS, DoD, Customs, and host country postal regulations and agreements. Answers
customer complaints, questions, and inquiries.
5.2.3. Postal Finance Officer (PFO)/Custodian of Postal Effects (COPE). Supervises postal finance
clerks and manages flexible-credit accounts. Orders, issues, and maintains adequate quantities of
postage stamps and blank money orders to replenish postal finance clerk's flexible-credit accounts.
Conducts monthly audits on flexible-credit accounts issued from the PFO/COPE account to finance
clerks. Collects funds derived from Postage Validation Imprinter (PVI) sales, stamp and money order
sales, and remits to USPS daily. Maintains files and postal records according to DoD and AF directives.
Maintains USPS capital equipment.
5.2.4. Postal Finance. Performs postal financial services, to include selling postage stamps, PVI, and
money orders. Manages a flexible-credit account and maintains adequate postage stock to service
patrons. Remits funds derived from financial transactions to the COPE. Accepts items for mailing and
advises patrons of applicable customs requirements. Applies appropriate endorsements for applicable
categories of mail and special services. Verifies customers’ eligibility to use the military postal system
and provides professional, friendly customer service.
5.2.5. Postal Service Center. Unloads incoming mail trucks and shipping containers and separates
personal from official correspondence by mail class. Opens tubs, trays and pouches; sorts letters, flats
and parcels using sorting equipment and break down cabinets. Distributes personal mail in individual
lock boxes. Processes/scans accountable mail in accordance with postal regulations and documents
receipt of accountable mail items using accountable delivery notices. Delivers parcels to customers,
complies with temporary mail disposition instructions for patrons on leave or temporary duty, and provides
forwarding service for reassigned patrons. Conducts final notices for parcels as applicable.
5.2.6. Receipt and Dispatch (R&D). Responsible for receipt and dispatch of personal and official military
mail. Loads and unloads mail trucks, surface shipping containers, and cargo pallets/containers. Verifies
and prepares mail shipments and manifests, prepares mail irregularity reports, determines proper
disposition of loose articles found in the mail, collects mail from drop boxes and local air terminal.
Inspects outgoing mail for size restrictions, customs limitations and appropriate postage. Sorts and
postmarks letters and flats for dispatch; selects and prepares mail bag disposition slide labels and flight
tags; weighs and records weight on mail; disposes of damaged mail sacks, and postal equipment.
Implements dropbox force protection measures.
5.2.7. Claims and Directory (Customer Service). Maintains a directory/locator database for all
customers. Processes general delivery mail. Redirects all classes of mail and surface parcels within
prescribed standards. Provides assistance to customers concerning mail matters and briefs incoming
personnel on local postal procedures. Assists customers with completion of temporary mail disposition
forms and standing delivery orders. Processes indemnity claims for lost or damaged mail, and
adjudicates requests for refunds of postage and fees. Provides minor repairs to mailboxes and ensures
lockbox combinations are changed as required.
5.2.8. Official Mail Center. Accepts, processes and applies appropriate postage and endorsements to
official mail. Verifies outgoing mail for size, weight and address compliance, and dispatches mail at the
lowest cost to the AF. Tracks and obtains reimbursement for tenant unit expenditures. Verifies and
accepts incoming mail trucks, receives and sorts mail, breaks down mail by class, and processes by
category. Ensures official mail is made available to activity distribution offices (ADO). Trains ADOs on
mail handling duties and maintains ADO designations to verify authorization to receipt for official mail.
5.2.9. Registry. Processes incoming and outgoing registered mail in accordance with USPS and DoD
directives. Verifies mail manifests, truck bills, inside bills, and unloads incoming registered mail




                                                          10
shipments. Delivers official registered mail to the Official Mail Center and delivers personal registered
mail to patrons on accountable delivery receipts. Prepares registered mail balance and inventory reports.
Ensures strict entry control and security measures are practiced in the section.
5.2.10. Aerial Mail Terminal (AMT). Performs R&D services for mail to/from: airports, Military Post
Offices (MPO), Mail Control Activities (MCA), sister service representatives, mobile units, naval vessels,
and other AMTs world-wide. Performs registered mail functions. Receives and dispatches personal and
official registered mail between MPOs and civilian/military air terminals. Generates truck and air transport
manifests for commercial/military flights transporting ordinary and registered mail. Processes mixed
pouches, flats, and letter trays. Provides directory services and redispatch for misrouted mail. Identifies
and reports handling irregularities to responsible activities and higher headquarters. Notifies the postal
transportation network of mail delays and/or transport irregularities via Postal Net Alerts (PNA). May
serve as a regional Intra/Inter-Theater Delivery Service Mail Recovery Center.
5.2.11. Mail Control Activity or Agent (MCA). Performs duties at commercial and/or military airports.
Verifies incoming/outgoing mail manifests for correct pieces, weights, and routing. Tenders mail directly
to commercial air carriers or designated handling agents. Escorts mail though local customs and security
screening. Meets inbound aircraft carrying military mail and witnesses its offloading and handling;
ramp-watches registered mail movement on designated flights, ensures all staged/tendered military mail
is properly protected against theft, damage, and weather at all times. Conducts detailed carrier/handling
agent warehouses checks; verifies security and movement of mail. Accomplishes daily reports that
itemize and monitor military mail awaiting movement and/or transfer to another flights. Identifies and
reports when a carrier fails to load or deliver tendered mail or safeguard mail from theft, damage, or
weather. Generates truck and air transport manifests for commercial/military flights transporting ordinary
and registered mail. Initiates payment adjustments when mail is misrouted or repossessed and moved by
other means. Notifies the postal transportation network of mail delays via Postal Net Alerts (PNA).
Conducts required quarterly air carrier meetings.
6. Training Decisions. This CFETP was revised during the 27 Feb-2 Mar 2012 Postal Utilization and
Training Workshop:
6.1. 8M000 CFETP has been revised to update terminology and delete/add tasks as applicable. It
supersedes CFETP dated 1 August 2010 w/chg 1 dated 1 October 2010.
6.2. Special experience identifiers (SEI) were created for the following: SEI 085 – Qualified Postal Amn,
SEI 086 – Qualified Postal NCO; SEI 087 – Qualified Postal SNCO; and SEI 088 – Career Postal Amn.
Tests for each SEI will be available on the web-based test web site.
6.3. Training guides and tests are “living documents” reviewed annually and updated as needed to
comply with postal changes and training standards to meet SEI and MISCAP requirements.
6.4. MISCAPs were revised to create an 1) Airman; 2) NCO; and 3) SNCO capability, which align to the
new SEIs.
7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Enrollment in CCAF occurs
upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity for all enlisted members to
obtain an Associate of Applied Science (AAS) degree. Refer to the AF Virtual Education Center
(accessible via the AF Portal, https://www.my.af.mil) for CCAF credits earned for technical training
courses attended. In order to be awarded a CCAF AAS degree, it must be completed before the student
separates from the Air Force, retires, or is commissioned as an officer. In addition to its associate’s
degree program, CCAF offers the following:
7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. The CCAF, offers the Occupational Instructor Certification
to instructors teaching full time in a CCAF affiliated school. To qualify, instructors must complete a
3- semester hour Instructor Methodology course, a 12-semester hour Teaching Internship, have two
years teaching experience from date of Teaching Internship completion, hold an associate or higher
degree, and be recommended by their commander/commandant.
7.2. The Information Management (1AUY) program applies to the 8M000 SDI.




                                                          11
7.2.1. Degree Requirements: Individuals must hold, at a minimum, SEI 085, Qualified Postal Airman, or
higher SEI, at the time of program completion.
                                                                                                                                   Semester Hours
Technical Education .................................................................................................................................... 24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ............................................................................................ 6
Physical Education ........................................................................................................................................ 4
General Education ...................................................................................................................................... 15
Program Electives ....................................................................................................................................... 15
                                                                                                                                                 Total 64
7.2.2. Technical Education (24 semester hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical Core
subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours will be applied from Technical
Core/Technical Elective subjects and courses. Requests to substitute comparable courses or to exceed
specified semester hour values in any subject/course must be approved in advance by the technical
branch of the CCAF Administrative Center.
7.2.3. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 semester hours): Professional Military
Education (PME) and/or civilian management courses. See CCAF General Catalog for application of
civilian management courses.
7.2.4. Physical Education (4 semester hours): Satisfied upon completion of basic military training.
7.2.5. General Education (15 semester hours): Courses must meet the criteria for application of courses
to the General Education requirement and be in agreement with the definitions of applicable General
Education subjects/courses as outlined in the CCAF General Catalog.
7.2.6. General Education Mobile (GEM): GEM is a partnership between CCAF and civilian academic
institutions to offer general education courses to meet CCAF A.A.S. degree requirements. Courses are
offered via distance learning which reduces CCAF educational impact of deployments, PCS and family
commitments.
7.2.7. Program Elective (15 semester hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education; Leadership,
Management, and Military Studies; or General Education courses, including natural science courses
meeting General Education requirement application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied.
7.3. See the current CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associate of Applied Science in
Information Management. The catalog is available at your education office or from
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf.
7.4. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to
become an AETC Instructor must possess as a minimum an associate degree or should be actively
pursuing an associate degree. Special Duty Assignment (SDA) requires an AETC instructor candidate to
have a CCAF degree or be within one year of completion (45 semester hours [SH]). A degreed faculty is
necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                                                                    12
8. 8M000 Career Pyramid. The following pyramid summarizes the SDI career progression. Average
Time in Service (TIS) times are the Air Force averages based on 2012 promotion results. Refer to the Air
Force Personnel Center’s homepage for current information: http://ask.afpc.randolph.mil/.




                                                        13
Section C – 8M000 Training Requirements
9. Special Duty Qualification Requirements.
9.1. Although 8M000 is awarded upon entry into the postal SDI, personnel must meet the following
training requirements: all core tasks (STS Column 2), deployment tasks (STS Column 6), and
duty-position tasks as defined by the supervisor. Training sources are the applicable training guides (para
9.7.3), respective training references, and hands-on training. After initial training orientation, assign
trainees to a work center to begin duty position training and develop a schedule to complete core and
deployment task training within 12 months. Utilize training guides, source policy references and hands-on
instruction for duty position training. Core and deployment task training is accomplished through use of
training guide material as defined for each grade below.
9.2. Deployment Qualification. Upon initial assignment, training will focus on UTC deployment
requirements qualification as defined in Part 2, Column 6.
9.2.1. Airmen: Train in postal finance, official mail, registered mail, receipt and dispatch, Claims and
Directory, and mail control activity duties as outlined in CFETP 8M000, Column 6A. Airmen will complete
training guides: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and pass their respective web-based specialty tests with minimum
scores of 70%. Upon passing the Postal Airman Web-based Qualification Test (minimum score of 70%),
Airmen will earn postal SEI 085 and become a Qualified Postal Airman.
9.2.2. NCO: Train in postal finance, official mail, registered mail, receipt and dispatch, Custodian of
Postal Effects (COPE), Claims and Directory, mail control activities, and tasks as outlined in CFETP
8M000, Column 6B. NCOs will complete training guides: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and pass their respective
web-based specialty tests with minimum scores of 70%. Upon passing the Postal NCO
Web-based Qualification Test (minimum score of 70%), NCOs will earn postal SEI 086 and become a
Qualified Postal NCO.
9.2.3. SNCO: Train in postal duties as outlined in CFETP 8M000, Column 6C. SNCOs will complete
training guides: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and pass their respective web-based specialty tests with minimum
scores of 70%. Upon passing the Postal SNCO Web-based Qualification Test (minimum score of 70%),
SNCOs will earn postal SEI 087 and become a Qualified Postal SNCO
9.3. Duty Position Qualification: Supervisors will determine work center duty position tasks to assign
trainees.
9.4. Career Postal Positions. Award of the Career Postal Airman SEI requires: (1) SSgt-select through
SMSgt with 5 years experience in the postal SDI; (2) completion of 8M000 CFETP, Part II SDI core tasks
identified in Column 2, and UTC tasks identified in Columns 6A (Amn), 6B (NCO), and 6C (SNCO); (3)
completion of all 8M000 postal training guides according to 8M000 CFETP, Part II, Section C; (4)
recommendation of supervisor and unit commander; (5) approval from MAJCOM postal Functional
Manager. Waivers to the 5 years experience in the SEI will be coordinated through the MAJCOM
Functional Manager and forwarded to the AF Career Field Manager for approval.
9.5. 8M000 SDI qualifications are found in the AFECD and the Special Duty Catalog (SPECAT).
9.6. MAJCOM representatives control access and content of the tests. In turn, they provide access to
Superintendents and Postmasters who grant test-taking privileges to personnel, proctor tests, and ensure
the integrity of the testing system. Problems or disagreements with test questions should be elevated to
the MAJCOM OPR to resolve the discrepancy.
9.7. Training Sources.
9.7.1. SDI-specific training: Interservice Postal Training Activity (IPTA),
http://www.ags.army.mil/ipta/index.html.
9.7.2. 8M000 duty-position qualification guides and web-based tests are available on the Air Force Postal
Operations Community of Practice (CoP) at:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-SC-PO-ST.
9.7.3. Postal training qualification guides:




                                                           14
 Number                                              Title                                          OPR
*Guide 1       General Postal Knowledge Requirements                                              USAFE
*Guide 2       Custodian of Postal Effects (COPE) Procedures                                      USAFE
*Guide 3       Finance Clerk Procedures                                                           USAFE
*Guide 4       Registry Mail Procedures                                                           AFCENT
*Guide 5       Postal Service Center (PSC) & Receipt and Dispatch (R&D)                           PACAF
*Guide 6       Receptacles, Directory, Claims, and Inquiries                                      PACAF
*Guide 7       Mail Control Activity and Aerial Mail Terminal (MCA/AMT) Procedures                AFCENT
*Guide 8       Official Mail Procedures                                                           USAFE
*Guide 9       Postal Supply and Equipment Management                                             USAFE
Guide 10       IONSCAN and SABRE Scanners                                                         USAFE
Guide 11       Web-Based Test Guide                                                               USAFE
               Web-Based Tests OPR                                                                USAFE
Asterisk indicates current web-based tests available at:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-SC-PO-ST.
9.7.4. Qualification training for the duty position, programs to be managed, or equipment to be used, is
provided by qualified trainers. Requests for qualified trainers/certifiers should be directed to your local
training manager, supervisor, Postmaster, Superintendent or MAJCOM Postal Functional Manager.
9.7.5. The AF e-Learning site (accessible through the AF Portal, https://www.my.af.mil) is a unique and
viable tool to keep Air Force personnel skilled in the technology they use in carrying out their missions by
providing information technology training anytime, anywhere to the user’s desktop. It should be used by
work center supervisors to enhance the scope/quality of training already available, reduce training costs,
and provide training options not otherwise available. The system is tailored towards flexibility--after
registering from a “.mil” location, students can accomplish the user-friendly desktop training courses from
any location--work, home, or while TDY.
Section D - Resource Constraints
10. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints (funding, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment) precluding optimal/desired training from being developed or conducted. Included are
narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each
constraint has on training. Finally, this section includes actions required, OPR, and target completion
date. Resource constraints will be, at a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.
10.1. Constraints. AF postal training guides standardize training and develop a core knowledge level
for all Postal professionals. The goal is for every postal Airman to have the knowledge of every grade-
specific UTC deployment task (Part II, Column 6). There are locations where hands-on training is
challenging (e.g., AMT with no COPE duties). Where feasible, Airmen will be scheduled/provided access
to hands-on training to enhance wartime proficiency. This may entail setting up mock work centers or
Airmen attending training at other locations.




                                                           15
Section E - Transition Training Guide
11. There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                         16
PART II
Section A - Specialty Training Standard
1. Implementation. This Specialty Training Standard (STS) is for use by personnel who possess SDI
8M000 and is mandatory for those performing postal duties.
2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:
2.1. Provides documentation for OJT via the Training Business Area (TBA).
2.1.1. Column 1 (Task and Technical Reference) lists the most common tasks and technical references
(TR) necessary for Airmen to perform duties in the 8M000 SDI. To identify additional duty position
requirements, create an entry or entries in the TBA journal or on AF Form 797. Defer tasks when they
are not applicable to the current job assignment.
2.1.2. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies specific core tasks. A single asterisk (*) in Column 2 identifies
core tasks in the STS and are required for all postal personnel.
2.1.3. Column 3 identifies Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive
(CBRNE) training. CBRNE Task Qualification Training (TQT) tasks, indicated with a “C” in Column 3,
ensure personnel maintain proficiency in performing mission-critical tasks in a CBRNE environment. AFI
10-2501, AF Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, provides requirements for
CBRNE TQT.
2.1.4. Column 4a records the date task training begins. Column 4b records the date the task training is
completed. The trainee and trainer initial in Columns 4c and 4d to certify task completion.
2.1.5. The proficiency codes in Column 5 indicate the level of training and information the Interservice
Postal Training Activity (IPTA) provides in the Postal Operations Course and the Postal Supervisory
Course.
2.1.6. Column 6 identifies task certification one requires to meet AMN, NCO and SNCO focused Unit
Type Code (UTC) mission capability. An “X” in the rank column indicates tasks personnel must be
qualified in according to their respective rank. (see Part I, Section C, 9.2.1. - 9.2.3.) COPE and flexible
finance clerk training requires hands-on experience.
2.1.7. To be considered fully qualified, personnel must be duty-position qualified, trained on all core tasks
(Column 2), and trained on all applicable deployment tasks identified with an “X” in Column 6. Only the
MAJCOM 8M Functional Manager, with the concurrence of the AFCFM, can waive core task (*) training.
2.2. STS becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when loaded in TBA
(replaced AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record), and used according to AFI 36-2201. When used
as a JQS, the following requirements apply:
2.2.1. Documentation. Documentation procedures are provided in AFI 36-2201. In order to avoid
duplication and prevent confusion due to AFI changes, use documentation procedures as described in
the current instruction. AFCFMs may supplement minimum documentation procedures as needed or
deemed necessary for their career field.
2.2.2. Performance Standard. Tasks are trained and qualified to the “GO” level. Go means the
individual can perform the task without assistance and meet local demands for accuracy, timeliness and
correct use of procedures.
2.2.3. Automation Authorization. TBA is an authorized automation of the CFETP. 8M000 personnel will
implement and use TBA upon notification by the AFCFM.




                                                           17
3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality of AETC
training. A Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) has been installed for the supervisors’
convenience. For a quick response to concerns, call the CSIL at DSN 597-4566, fax at DSN 597-3790,
or e-mail at 81trg-tget@keesler.af.mil. Reference this STS and identify the specific area of concern
(paragraph, training standard element, etc.).

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE

OFFICIAL                                       MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                               Chief, Information Dominance and
                                               Chief Information Officer


Attachment:
1. 8M000 STS




                                                      18
                                                                                                            STS 8M000




                                                PREFACE
NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating technical references to identify current references pending
STS revision. Locate current Air Force publications at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
NOTE 2: A single (*) in Column 2 identifies core tasks in the STS and are required for all postal personnel.
Only the MAJCOM 8M Functional Manager, with the concurrence of the AFCFM, can waive core task (*)
training.
NOTE 3: A “C” in Column 3 identifies Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive
(CBRNE). CBRNE Task Qualification Training (TQT) ensures personnel maintain proficiency in performing
mission-critical tasks in a CBRNE environment. AFI 10-2501, AF Emergency Management (EM) Program
Planning and Operations, details the requirements for CBRNE TQT.
NOTE 4: The proficiency codes in Column 5 indicate the level of training and information the Interservice
Postal Training Activity (IPTA) provides in the Postal Operations Course and the Postal Supervisory
Course. This CFETP does not direct IPTA course curriculum changes. Postal course curriculum is
managed in accordance with Interservice Training Review Organization (ITRO) policies and procedures.
NOTE 5: All tasks will be trained during wartime.
NOTE 6: Track and manage training for TSgts and below using Training Business Area (TBA). MSgt and
above training may be tracked at the discretion of the commander.
NOTE 7: An “X” in Column 6 (applicable rank column) identifies mandatory training requirements to meet
UTC MISCAP.
NOTE 8: Third-party certification is waived for all 8M personnel.




                                                             19                                         Attachment 1
                                                PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
-             SCALE   DEFINITION: The individual
              VALUE
                1     Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (EXTREMELY LIMITED)
Performance
   Levels




                2     Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)
   *Task




                3     Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)
                4     Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
                a     Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)
Knowledge
  Levels
  **Task




                b     Can determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)
                c     Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed. (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
                d     Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (COMPLETE THEORY)
                A     Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)
Knowledge
 Subject

  Levels




                B     Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (PRINCIPLES)
                C     Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)
                D     Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)
EXPLANATIONS
* You must use a task performance scale value with a task knowledge level value.
** You may use a task knowledge scale value alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
     (Examples: b and 1b)
  - This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.
 X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required, but not given, due to limitations in resources.




                                                                     20
                                     THIS BLOCK IS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY

                                                Personal Data – Privacy Act of 1974

PRINTED NAME OF TRAINEE (Last, First, Middle Initial)                      INITIALS (Written)   SSN (last 4 only)



                                      PRINTED NAME OF TRAINER AND WRITTEN INITIALS

N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I




                                                                21
                                                                                                               5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                     4. OJT
                                                                                                               CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                             TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                            2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                             TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                    (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                        2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                     A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                           PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                    START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                  AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                    DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

1. GENERAL MILITARY POSTAL
SERVICE
TR: AFIs 10-244, 10-401, 10-404, 33-
322, 36-2201( V3); DoD 4525.6-M;
USPS PUB 223, USPS PUB 247,
IONSCAN/SABRE USER’S MANUAL;
MAJCOM guidance; and local
procedures
1.1. General Knowledge of Military
Postal Service (MPS)
1.1.1. Identify who can use Military
Postal Service (MPS)                           *                                                               2a         2b       -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (AP1)
1.1.2. Identify and report misuse of
MPS
                                               *                                                                -         2b       -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C14.1.2.3.6,
C3.2.5.4)
1.1.3. Protect mail and postal effects
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C1.1.6.9.2,                  *                                                               2a         -        -      -       -
C3.2.5.3, C6.5.1)
1.1.4. Explain MPS chain of command
                                                                                                               A          -        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C1)
1.1.5. Explain responsibilities of the
Assistant Deputy Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition,
                                                                                                                -         A        -      -       -
Transportation and Logistics (ADUSD
(AT&L)
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C1.1.6.1)
1.1.6. Explain responsibilities of
Executive Director, Military Postal
                                                                                                                -         A        -      -       X
Service Agency (MPSA)
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C1.1.6.4)
1.1.7. Explain responsibilities of Joint
Military Postal Activities (JMPA) in
                                                                                                                -         A        -      X       X
postal matters
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C1.1.6.5)
1.1.8. Explain responsibilities of
MAJCOM postal representative                                                                                    -         A        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C1.1.6.7)
1.1.9. Explain relationship of United
States Postal Service (USPS) to MPS
                                               *                                                               A          -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C1.1.5) and
USPS Pub 38
1.2. POSTAL ACTIVITY SECURITY
AND SAFETY RESPONSIBILITIES
1.2.1. Issue keys on PS Form 1628,
Individual Key Card, and maintain
                                                                                                                -         -        -      X       X
master key log
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.5.1.7)
1.2.2. Demonstrate procedures for
accessing and securing facility
                                               *                                                                -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.2.1,
C10.5.1.6, C10.5.1.7)
1.2.3. Develop resource protection
plan/Standard Operation Procedures
(SOP) and coordinate with local
security forces for inclusion of base                                                                           -         -        -      X       X
plans
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.2) and AFI
31-101




                                                                         22
                                                                                                              5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                    4. OJT
                                                                                                              CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                            TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                           2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                            TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                   (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                       2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                    A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                          PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                   START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                 AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                   DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

1.2.4. Facility alarm checks program
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C13.7.3.7), AFI
                                                                                                               -         -        -      X       X
31-101, and base resource protection
guidance
1.2.5. Develop anti-robbery
instructions
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.2), AFI 31-                                                                              -         -        -      X       X
101 and base resource protection
guidance
1.2.6. Conduct bomb threat exercise
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C15), and local                                                                              -         -        -      X       X
procedures
1.2.7. Understand suspicious mail
procedures and take appropriate
action                                        *           C                                                   A          -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C15.11.2) and
local procedures
1.2.8. Identify chemical and biological
suspicious mail incidents and take
appropriate action                            *           C                                                    -         A        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.7.4.2) and
local procedures
1.2.9. Execute emergency destruction
procedures for postal effects when
required                                                  C                                                    -         A        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C2.16) and local
procedures
1.3. MANAGEMENT/SUPERVISION
1.3.1. Personnel Supervision and
Management
1.3.1.1. Explain local channels of
communication, policies, directives,
and procedures for subordinates                                                                                -         -        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C1) and local
procedures
1.3.1.2. Prepare DD Form 2257,
Designation/Termination MPC-COPE-
                                                                                                               -         2b       -      X       X
PFO
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C5.4.1.1)
1.3.1.3. Prepare DD Form 285,
Appointment of Military Postal Clerk,
Unit Mail Clerk or Orderly                                                                                     -         2b       -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C5.4.1 and
C5.F2)
1.3.1.4. Maintain DD Forms 285 for
UMRs and UMCs                                                                                                  -         -        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C15.6)
1.3.1.5. Prepare PS Form 8139, Your
Role in Protecting the Security of the
                                                                                                              1a         2b       -      X       X
United States Mail
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C5.4.1)
1.3.1.6. Verify designation
or termination of UMCs
                                                                                                               -         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C15.4,
C15.7)
1.3.1.7. Provide training to UMRs and
UMCs                                                                                                           -         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C15.5)
1.3.1.8. Conduct quarterly inspections
of UMRs                                                                                                        -         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C15.8)




                                                                        23
                                                                                                               5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                     4. OJT
                                                                                                               CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                             TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                            2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                             TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                    (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                        2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                     A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                           PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                    START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                  AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                    DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

1.3.2. Automated Training Tools to
Manage/Document Training
1.3.2.1. Develop Work Center Task
List (CFETP, STS, JQS, Local,
Wartime)                                                                                                        -         -        -      -       -
TR: AFI 36-2201 and Training
Business Area (TBA) Guide
1.3.2.2. Create individual training plan                                                                        -         -        -      -       -
1.3.2.3. Document training                                                                                      -         -        -      -       -
1.3.2.4. Retrieve/analyze automated
training reports (e.g., TVL/Task                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
Coverage)
1.3.2.5. Transcribe training to new
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
product
1.3.2.6. Assign system user roles                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
1.3.2.7. Create/assign local tasks                                                                              -         -        -      -       -
1.3.2.8. Enter required journal entries
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
in personnel TBA journal
1.3.2.9. Establish personnel
accountability process (PCS/PCA/                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
Separation/Retirement)
1.3.2.10. Register for web-based
postal test access                                                                                              -         -        -      -       -
TR: AF Postal Guide 11
1.3.2.11. Add personel to system
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
TR: AF Postal Guide 11
1.3.2.12. Add testing modules
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
TR: AF Postal Guide 11
1.3.2.13. Assign tests to trainees
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
TR: AF Postal Guide 11
1.3.2.14. Proctor tests
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
TR: AF Postal Guide 11
1.3.2.15. Review test results with
examinee                                                                                                        -         -        -      -       -
TR: AF Postal Guide 11
1.3.3. Operation of Military Postal
Activities
1.3.3.1. Determine space and
structural criteria for military post
                                                                                                                -         -        -      X       X
offices
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C13.5)
1.3.3.2. Coordinate facility
maintenance with base or other
                                                                                                                -         -        -      X       X
responsible civil or facility engineer
TR: Local procedures
1.3.3.3. Implement quality control
programs
                                                                                                                -         -        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.2) and
MAJCOM guidance
1.3.3.4. Establish self-inspection
program and take corrective action on
findings                                                                                                        -         1a       -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C12.5) and
Appendix C
1.3.3.5. Prepare base postal support
plan annex/appendices, when
                                                                                                                -         -        -      X       X
applicable
TR: AFI 10-404 and AFI 10-401




                                                                         24
                                                                                                               5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                     4. OJT
                                                                                                               CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                             TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                            2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                             TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                    (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                        2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                     A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                           PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                    START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                  AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                    DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

1.3.3.6. Enforce compliance with host
country customs officials and/or
compliance with Status of Forces                                                                                -         -       X       X       X
Agreements (SOFA)
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.6.10.1)
1.3.3.7. Implement Free Mail
procedure upon direction from higher
                                               *                                                                -         2b       -      -       -
headquarters
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C2.8.)
1.3.3.8. Develop and apply training
tools for effective management of
personnel and support of contingency                                                                            -         -        -      X       X
operations
TR: AFI 36-2201, Vol 3
1.3.3.9. Coordinate with Unit
Deployment Managers for update of
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
AEF Reporting Tool (ART),
TR: AFI 10-244 (C.2)
1.3.3.10. Maintain filing systems
                                                                                                                -         -       X       X       X
TR: AFI 33-322
1.3.4. Establish Customer Service
and Education Programs
1.3.4.1. Prepare postal customer
information notices for local bulletins,
                                                                                                                -         -       X       X       X
newspapers, flyers, TV/radio
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.3)
1.3.4.2. Participate in INTRO or
similar programs by providing briefings
                                                                                                                -         -       X       X       X
or handouts
TR: Local procedures
1.3.5. Manage Postal Offense
Issues
1.3.5.1. Determine what constitutes a
postal offense                                 *                                                                -         2b       -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C14.1.2)
1.3.5.2. Contact appropriate
investigative agencies regarding postal
                                                                                                                -         2b       -      X       X
offense incidents
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C14.1.3.2.2)
1.3.5.3. Initiate postal offense
reporting in Automated Military Postal
System (AMPS)                                                                                                   -         2b       -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C14.1.3) and
MPSA guidance
1.3.5.4. Obtain and review updates
from investigative agencies on open
                                                                                                                -         1a       -      X       X
postal offenses
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C14.1.3.2.3)
1.3.5.5. Determine when to report a
rifled parcel on AMPS                                                                                           -         1a      X       X       X
TR: DoD 4526.6-M (C10.5.4.4)
1.3.6. Investigative Agency
Requests
1.3.6.1. Validate search warrants
                                               *                                                                -         A        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.7.6)
1.3.6.2. Process mail covers
                                                                                                                -         A        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.7.8)
1.3.6.3. Coordinate with investigative
agencies                                                                                                        -         -        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.7.7)




                                                                         25
                                                                                                              5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                    4. OJT
                                                                                                              CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                            TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                           2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                            TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                   (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                       2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                    A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                          PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                   START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                 AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                   DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

1.3.7. Handling Procedures for
Suspected Contaminated Mail
1.3.7.1. Conduct handling procedures
on hazardous/suspicious mail
                                              *           C                                                    -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.7.4.1), USPS
Pub 52 and local procedures
1.3.7.2. Notify investigative agencies
of mail suspected of containing
                                                          C                                                    -         -        -      X       X
prohibited matter
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.7.3.4)
1.4. USPS SUPPLIES AND
EQUIPMENT
1.4.1. Explain purpose of Federal
Standard Requisitioning and Issuing
Procedures (FEDSTRIP) activity
codes                                                                                                          -         -        -      X       X
TR: USPS Pub 247, Supply and
Equipment Catalog, and MPSA
guidance
1.4.2. Explain purpose of USPS Pub
223
                                                                                                               -         -        -      X       X
TR: USPS Pub 223, Forms and
Directives Catalog
1.4.3. Explain use of USPS Pub 247
to order supplies and equipment                                                                                -         -        -      X       X
TR: USPS Pub 247
1.4.4. Inventory supplies and non-
capital equipment                                                                                             1a         -       X       X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 9
1.4.5. Maintain supplies and non-
capital equipment using PS Form
1586, Supply Record, or automated                                                                             1a         -        -      X       X
supply database
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 9
1.4.6. Use PS Form 7380, MDC
Supply Requisition, or touch tone entry
and online with USPS to order                                                                                 1a         -        -      X       X
supplies
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 9
1.4.7. Use PS Form 7381, Requisition
for Supplies Services or Equipment, to
MAJCOM for annual equipment                                                                                    -         -        -      X       X
forecasts
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 9
1.4.8. Use PS Form 1567, Requisition
for Rubber and Steel Stamps, for
ordering rubber stamps, etc., and                                                                              -         -        -      X       X
submit to MAJCOM
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 9
1.4.9. Use PS Form 1957, Military
Label and Tag Request
                                                                                                               -         -        -      X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 9 and
AMPS
1.4.10. Use PS Form 1578-B,
Request for Facing Slips and Labels
                                                                                                               -         -        -      X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 9 and
AMPS
1.4.11. Submit as needed
requirement for empty equipment                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 9




                                                                        26
                                                                                                               5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                     4. OJT
                                                                                                               CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                             TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                            2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                             TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                    (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                        2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                     A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                           PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                    START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                  AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                    DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

1.4.12. Use PS Form 4805, Work
Record Sheet, for replacement of
                                                                                                                -         -        -      X       X
USPS capital equipment
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 9
1.4.13. Obtain IRT and debit /credit
system supplies                                                                                                 -         -        -      X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 9
1.4.14. Order GSA supplies
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 9 and                                                                              -         -        -      X       X
AMPS
1.4.15. Track supply shipment and
backorder items
                                                                                                                -         -        -      X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 9 and
AMPS
1.5. EXPLOSIVE DETECTION
MACHINERY TO INCLUDE
IONSCAN 400B AND SABRE 2000
TR: IONSCAN 400B or SABRE 2000
operator’s manual
1.5.1. Equipment Familiarization
TR: IONSCAN 400B or SABRE 2000
operator’s manual
1.5.1.1. Observe safety precautions                                                                             -         -        -      -       -
1.5.1.2.Check dri-rite canister prior to
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
start up of system
1.5.1.3. Perform system verification                                                                            -         -        -      -       -
1.5.1.4. Interpret information display                                                                          -         -        -      -       -
1.5.1.5. Interpret results display to
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
include alarm indicators
1.5.2. Particle Sample Analysis
1.5.2.1. Determine requirement for
sample collection based on Force                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
Protection Condition
1.5.2.2. Collect samples                       *           C                                                    -         -        -      -       -
1.5.2.3. Analyze samples                       *           C                                                    -         -        -      -       -
1.5.2.4. Take appropriate actions
when alarm indicates presence of               *           C                                                    -         -        -      -       -
explosive chemicals
1.5.2.5. Silence alarm and run blank
                                               *           C                                                    -         -        -      -       -
to insure system integrity
1.5.3. Equipment and Periodic
Maintenance
1.5.3.1. Clean sample slot and inlet
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
flange
1.5.3.2. Replace membrane (SABRE
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
2000
1.5.3.3. Clean sampling subsystem
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
(IONSCAN 400B)
1.5.3.4. Replace air purification (dri-
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
rite) canister/cartridge
1.5.3.5. Clean exhaust subsystem                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
1.5.3.6. Replace exhaust tube
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
(IONSCAN 400B)
1.5.3.7. Perform auto calibration                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
1.5.3.8. Actuate clean cycle                                                                                    -         -        -      -       -
1.5.3.9. Perform bake out procedures
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -




                                                                         27
                                                                                                              5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                    4. OJT
                                                                                                              CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                            TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                           2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                            TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                   (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                       2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                    A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                          PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                   START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                 AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                   DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2. MILITARY POST OFFICE (MPO),
MAIL CONTROL ACTIVITY (MCA)
AND AERIAL MAIL TERMINAL
(AMT) FUNCTIONS
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306,
DoD 4525.6-M, DoDI 4525.8/AF
Supplement 1, USPS HBK T-7,
DOMESTIC MAIL MANUAL (DMM),
INTERNATIONAL MAIL MANUAL
(IMM), POSTAL OPERATIONS
MANUAL (POM), IRT USER’S
GUIDE, AF Postal Training Guides
2.1. POSTAL FINANCE CLERK AND
FINANCE WINDOW OPERATIONS
(Flexible Credit)
2.1.1. UNISYS III System
Configuration
2.1.1.1. Identify and care for
Integrated Retail Terminal (IRT)                                                                              1a         -       X       X       -
TR: IRT User’s Guide
2.1.1.2. Logon to system using clerk
disk                                                                                                          1a         -       X       X       -
TR: IRT User’s Guide
2.1.2. Postage Validation Imprinter
(PVI)
2.1.2.1. Install labels
                                                                                                              1a         -       X       X       -
TR: Operator’s manual
2.1.2.2. Conduct periodic
maintenance and clear error codes
                                                                                                               -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C7.3.4), and AF
Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.2.3. Print start of day labels
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C7.3.4,), and AF                                                                            1b         -       X       X       -
Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.2.4. Verify start of day Electronic
Ascending Reading (EAR)                                                                                        -         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C7.3.4)
2.1.2.5. Complete PS Form 3533,
Application for Refund of Postal Fees
and Withdrawal of Customer
                                                                                                              1a         -       X       X       -
Accounts, for damaged or unused PVI
labels
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C7.3.4.4)
2.1.3. Account Maintenance
2.1.3.1. Demonstrate security of
accounts and IRT system
                                                                                                              1a         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.5.2) and AF
Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.3.2. Set combination on security
container                                                                                                      -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.5.3)
2.1.3.3. Document the opening and
closing of security containers on SF
                                                                                                               -         -       X       X       X
702, Security Container Check Sheet
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.5.2)
2.1.3.4. Develop password for clerk
disk and debit credit access                                                                                   -         -       X       X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.4. Account Acceptance




                                                                        28
                                                                                                               5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                     4. OJT
                                                                                                               CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                             TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                            2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                             TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                    (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                        2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                     A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                           PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                    START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                  AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                    DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.1.4.1. Apply and explain flexible
account tolerances                                                                                             1a         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C12.3.7)
2.1.4.2. Verify account amount total
using PS Form 3294, Cash and Stamp
Stock Count and Summary                                                                                        1a         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.4.1 and
C6.3.5)
2.1.4.3. Sign for account on PS Form
3369, Consigned Credit Receipt                                                                                 1a         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.3.5)
2.1.4.4. Sign for initial stamp stock on
PS Form 17, Stamp Requisition                                                                                  1a         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.3.5)
2.1.4.5. Verify money order issuance
and receipt for on DD Form 885,
                                                                                                               1a         -       X       X       X
Money Order Control Log
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C8.5)
2.1.4.6. Input money orders into IRT
system                                                                                                         1a         -       X       X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.4.7. Requisition stamps on PS
Form 17, Stamp Requisition                                                                                     1a         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.3.5.)
2.1.4.8. Input stamps on clerk disk
                                                                                                               1a         -       X       X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.4.9. Return damaged stock to
COPE and remove from clerk disk
                                                                                                               1a         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.7) and AF
Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.5. Customer Transactions
2.1.5.1. Process customs forms to
include PS Forms 2976 and 2976-A,
                                                                                                               1a         -       X       X       -
Customs Declarations
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.6.5.1)
2.1.5.2. Endorse and maintain parcel
security statements                                                                                             -         -       X       X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.5.3. Sell money orders
                                                                                                               2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C8.7)
2.1.5.4. Understand when to use PS
Form 8105, Money Order Transaction
                                                                                                               A          -       X       X       X
Report
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C8.7.2)
2.1.5.5. Process spoiled money
orders                                                                                                         2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C8.8.2)
2.1.5.6. Issue no-fee money orders
                                                                                                               2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C8.7.5)
2.1.5.7. Cash money orders
                                                                                                               2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C8.9)
2.1.5.8. Check Lost Stolen Money
Order Listing
                                                                                                               2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C8.9.1) and
current USPS Postal Bulletin (PB)
2.1.5.9. Input stamp sales
                                                                                                               2b         -       X       X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 3




                                                                         29
                                                                                                             5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                   4. OJT
                                                                                                             CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                           TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                          2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                           TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                      2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                   A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                         PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                  START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                  DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.1.5.10. Affix postage stamps/PVI
labels
                                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.6.4. and
C7.3.4.3)
2.1.5.11. Process PS Form 3533 for
refund of EMMS
                                                                                                             1a         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.8.1) and AF
Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.6. Restrictions and Mail Classes
2.1.6.1. Process Express Mail Military
Service (EMMS)
TR: DMM (Sections 100 and 601),                                                                              2b         -        -      -       -
EMMS PO-514 and AF Postal Training
Guide 3
2.1.6.2. Process First Class Mail
TR: DMM (Sections 100 and 601),                                                                              2b         -       X       X       -
and AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.6.3. Process Priority Mail
TR: DMM (Sections 100 and 601),                                                                              2b         -       X       X       -
and AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.6.4. Process Parcel Post (SAM)
TR: DMM (Sections 100 and 601),                                                                              2b         -       X       X       -
and AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.6.5. Process Parcel Airlift (PAL)
TR: DMM (Sections 100 and 601),                                                                              2b         -       X       X       -
and AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.6.6. Process International Mail
TR: IMM and AF Postal Training                                                                               2b         -       X       X       -
Guide 3
2.1.6.7. Process Inter/Intra-Theater
Delivery Service (IDS) Mail
                                                                                                              -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.11), AF
Postal Training Guide 3 and USPS PB
2.1.7. Extra Services
2.1.7.1. Process PS Form 3813,
Receipt for Domestic Insured Parcel
                                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DMM (Section 500), and AF
Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.7.2. Process PS Form 3813-P,
Receipt for Insured Mail
                                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DMM (Section 500), and AF
Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.7.3. Process PS Form 3800,
Receipt for Certified Mail
                                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DMM (Section 500), and AF
Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.7.4. Process PS Form 152,
Delivery Confirmation
                                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DMM (Section 500), and AF
Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.7.5. Process PS Form 153, USPS
Signature Confirmation Receipt
TR: DMM (Section 500),                                                                                        -         -       X       X       -
and AF Postal Training
Guide 3
2.1.7.6. Process PS Form
3804, Return Receipt for
Merchandise                                                                                                   -         -       X       X       -
TR: DMM (Section 500), and AF
Postal Training Guide 3




                                                                       30
                                                                                                             5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                   4. OJT
                                                                                                             CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                           TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                          2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                           TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                      2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                   A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                         PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                  START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                  DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.1.7.7. Process PS Form 3806,
Receipt for Registered Mail
                                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DMM (Section 500), and AF
Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.7.8. Process PS Form 3811,
Domestic Return Receipt
                                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DMM (Section 500), and AF
Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.7.9. Process PS Form 2865,
Return Receipt for International Mail
                                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
TR: IMM and AF Postal Training
Guide 3
2.1.7.10. Process PS Form 2976-A for
International Insured Mail
                                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
TR: IMM and AF Postal Training
Guide 3
2.1.8. Customer transactions
2.1.8.1. Process cash payment
                                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.2.2)
2.1.8.2. Process check payment
                                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.2.6)
2.1.8.3. Process travelers check
payment                                                                                                      2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.2.7)
2.1.8.4. Process debit card payment
                                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.8.5. Process credit card payment
                                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.9. Preliminary Close of Day
Procedures
2.1.9.1. Print preliminary clerk PS
Form 1412, Daily Financial Report,
and verify entries                                                                                           1a         -       X       X       -
TR: AF Postal Training
Guide 3
2.1.9.2. Verify Account Indicator Code
(AIC) 109 and PVI totals                                                                                      -         -       X       X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.9.3. Verify AICs 800 and 400
                                                                                                              -         -       X       X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.9.4. Print clerk closeout from
debit/credit terminals
                                                                                                              -         -       X       X       X
TR: User’s Manual and AF Postal
Training Guide 3
2.1.9.5. Verify AIC 762 credit card
receipts                                                                                                      -         -       X       X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.9.6. Verify AIC 772 debit card
receipts                                                                                                      -         -       X       X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.9.7. Take corrective action on
clerk errors                                                                                                  -         -       X       X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.9.8. Verify AIC 752 cash remitted
final                                                                                                         -         -       X       X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.9.9. Round off remittance, AIC
090                                                                                                           -         -       X       X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 3




                                                                       31
                                                                                                                 5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                       4. OJT
                                                                                                                 CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                               TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                              2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                               TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                      (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                          2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                       A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B         C
                                             PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                      START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                    AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                      DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.1.10. Close-out of Daily Business
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.1.10.1. Print check list                                                                                       2b         -       X       X         -
2.1.10.2. Print money order list                                                                                 2b         -       X       X         -
2.1.10.3. Print debit/credit report                                                                               -         -       X       X         -
2.1.10.4. Print EMMS list                                                                                         -         -        -      -         -
2.1.10.5. Print final PS Form 1412                                                                               2b         -       X       X         -
2.1.10.6. Submit remittance to COPE                                                                               -         -       X       X         -
2.2. POSTAL FINANCE CLERK AND
FINANCE WINDOW OPERATIONS
(Fixed Credit)
2.2.1. Maintain maximum cash on
hand allowances
                                                                                                                 1b         -        -      -         -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.3.2.8) and PS
Form 3369
2.2.2. Requisition stamps on PS Form
17                                                                                                               2b         -        -      -         -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.3.5.2.1)
2.2.3. Customer Transactions
2.2.3.1. Sell postage stamps
                                                                                                                 2b         -        -      -         -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.6)
2.2.3.2. Affix postage stamps to
parcels                                                                                                          2b         -        -      -         -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.6.4)
2.2.3.3. Use PVI to apply meter sales
                                                                                                                 2b         -        -      -         -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C7.3.4.3)
2.2.4. Close Out
2.2.4.1. Print preliminary unit 1412
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C7.3.4.5), and AF                                                                               -         -        -      -         -
Postal Training Guide 3
2.2.4.2. Verify AICs for accuracy
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C7.3.4.5), and                                                                                  -         -        -      -         -
AF Postal Training Guide 3
2.2.4.3. Take corrective action if
stamp sales are logged onto system
                                                                                                                  -         -        -      -     -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C7.3.4.5), and AF
Postal Training Guide 3
2.2.4.4. Turn in remittance to
custodian of postal effects (COPE)
                                                                                                                  -         -        -      -         -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C7.3.4.5), and AF
Postal Training Guide 3
2.2.4.5. Process PS Form 6401,
Money Order Inquiry                                                                                              1a         -        -      -         -
TR: DMM (Section 500)
2.3. POSTAL FINANCE OFFICER
(PFO) AND COPE OPERATIONS
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.1. Unisys III Applications
2.3.1.1. Explain functions of utility disk                                                                        -         A        -      X         X
2.3.1.2. Explain functions of
                                                                                                                  -         A        -      X         X
supervisor disk
2.3.1.3. Explain functions of clerk disk                                                                          -         A        -      X         X
2.3.1.4. Explain functions of
retail consolidation unit disk                                                                                    -         A        -      X         X
(RCU)
2.3.1.5. Download and perform IRT
                                                                                                                  -         1a       -      X         X
version update function




                                                                           32
                                                                                                              5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                    4. OJT
                                                                                                              CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                            TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                           2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                            TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                   (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                       2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                    A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                          PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                   START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                 AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                   DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.3.1.6. Maintain duplicate copies of
                                                                                                               -         1a       -      X       X
disks
2.3.1.7. Update unit information
                                                                                                               -         -        -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.1.8. Calibrate IRT                                                                                         -         1a       -      X       -
2.3.1.9. Perform new day
                                                                                                               -         1a       -      X       -
function
2.3.1.10. Establish passwords                                                                                  -         1a       -      X       -
2.3.1.11. Initialize clerk disk                                                                                -         1a       -      X       -
2.3.1.12. Perform supervisor and clerk
                                                                                                               -         1a       -      X       -
disk recovery procedures
2.3.1.13. Perform quarterly function
                                                                                                               -         -        -      X       -
checks of backup Unisys III systems
2.3.1.14. Replace malfunctioning
                                                                                                               -         -        -      X       -
equipment
2.3.1.15. Update Unisys III equipment
to PS Forms 1590, Supplies and                                                                                 -         2b       -      X       X
Equipment Receipt, in AMPS
2.3.2. Postal Validation Imprinter
(PVI)
2.3.2.1. Replace malfunctioning
equipment
                                                                                                               -         -        -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training
Guide 2
2.3.2.2. Add PVI to supervisor disk
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C7.3.2.4) and AF                                                                             -         2b       -      X       -
Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.2.3. Remove PVI from supervisor
disk
                                                                                                               -         2b       -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C7.3.4.6) and AF
Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.2.4. Update PVI to PS Form 1590
in AMPS                                                                                                        -         -        -      X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.3. Money Order Imprinter
2.3.3.1. Change money order ID
number                                                                                                         -         -        -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C8.2.2)
2.3.3.2. Change ribbon
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2, and                                                                            -         -        -      X       -
User’s manual
2.3.3.3. Replace malfunctioning
equipment                                                                                                      -         -        -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.3.4. Update money order imprinter
on PS Form 1590, in AMPS
                                                                                                               -         -        -      X       X
TR: AF Postal Training
Guide 2
2.3.4. Credit/Debit Terminals
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2 and
User’s manual
2.3.4.1. Establish supervisor
password                                                                                                       -         -        -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.4.2. Assist clerk with password set
up
                                                                                                               -         -        -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2, and
User’s manual




                                                                        33
                                                                                                             5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                   4. OJT
                                                                                                             CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                           TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                          2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                           TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                      2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                   A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                         PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                  START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                  DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.3.4.3. Set local time and date
TR: AF Postal Training                                                                                        -         -        -      X       -
Guide 2, and User’s manual
2.3.4.4. Set automated batch report
generation time
                                                                                                              -         -        -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training
Guide 2, and User’s manual
2.3.4.5. Replace malfunctioning
equipment
                                                                                                              -         -        -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2, and
User’s manual
2.3.4.6. Update credit/debit equipment
on PS Form 1590, in AMPS
                                                                                                              -         -        -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2, and
User’s manual
2.3.5. Account Security
2.3.5.1. Secure stock and funds
                                                                                                              -         1a       -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.5)
2.3.5.2. Prepare SF 700, Security
Container Information                                                                                         -         -        -      X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.5.3. Prepare SF 701, Security
Activity Checklist                                                                                            -         -        -      X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.5.4. Prepare SF 702, Security
Container Check Sheet
                                                                                                              -         -        -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training
Guide 2
2.3.5.5. Change safe
combinations
TR: DoD 4525.6-M                                                                                              -         1a       -      X       -
(C6.5.3), and Safe Manual
2.3.5.6. Maintain AFTO 36,
Maintenance Record for Security Type
                                                                                                              -         -        -      X       -
Equipment
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.6. Account
Issuance/Maintenance
2.3.6.1. Explain financial credit
account tolerances                                                                                            -         2b       -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C12.3.7)
2.3.6.2. Issue accounts on PS Form
17                                                                                                            -         2b       -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M(C6.3.5)
2.3.6.3. Complete PS Form 3294
                                                                                                              -         2b       -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.3.5)
2.3.6.4. Complete PS Form 3369
                                                                                                              -         2b       -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C.6.3.5)
2.3.6.5. Complete PS Form 3368,
Stamp Credit Examination Record                                                                               -         2b       -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C12.3.8)
2.3.6.6. Complete PS Form 3977,
Duplicate Key Envelope, for
passwords and combinations                                                                                    -         2b       -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M
(C10.5.2.1)
2.3.6.7. Complete PS Form 1096,
Cash Receipt, for receipt of passwords
                                                                                                              -         2b       -      X       -
and combinations
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.5.2.1)




                                                                       34
                                                                                                            5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                  4. OJT
                                                                                                            CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                          TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                         2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                          TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                 (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                     2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                  A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                        PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                 START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                               AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                 DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.3.6.8. Establish account folders
                                                                                                             -         2b       -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.3.5.1.1.5)
2.3.6.9. Withdraw clerk accounts
                                                                                                             -         -        -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.3.1.4)
2.3.6.10. Reissue existing accounts
                                                                                                             -         -        -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.6.11. Audit clerk
accounts
                                                                                                             -         2b       -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M
(C12.3.3)
2.3.6.12. Submit overages and
shortages                                                                                                    -         2b       -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C12.3.9.1)
2.3.6.13. Audit COPE account
                                                                                                             -         2b       -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C12.3.5)
2.3.6.14. Transfer money orders upon
COPE transfer using DD Form 885                                                                              -         2b       -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C8.5.1)
2.3.6.15. Transfer accountable
equipment upon COPE transfer using
                                                                                                             -         2b       -      X       X
PS form 1590
TR: DoD 4525. 6-M (C6.4.4)
2.3.7. COPE-Clerk Transactions
2.3.7.1. Generate electronic PS Form
17 for clerk stamp requisitions                                                                              -         2b       -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.7.2. Issue stamp stock
                                                                                                             -         2b       -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.2.3)
2.3.7.3. Accept damaged stamp stock
returned from clerks                                                                                         -         -        -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.4.11)
2.3.7.4. Issue money orders on DD
Form 885                                                                                                     -         2b       -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C8.5)
2.3.7.5. Post publications and visual
aids as required
                                                                                                             -         -        -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C4.1.3) and AF
Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.8. Accountable Postmaster and
Managerial Actions
2.3.8.1. Return damaged stamp stock
to accountable postmaster on PS
Form 17
                                                                                                             -         -        -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M(C6.7.2),
and AF Postal Training
Guide 2
2.3.8.2. Order stamp stock on PS
Form 17                                                                                                      -         2b       -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.3.2)
2.3.8.3. Validate receipt of stamp
stock
                                                                                                             -         2b       -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.3.6.3 and
C6.4.10)
2.3.8.4. Input stamp stock on
supervisor disk                                                                                              -         2b       -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.8.5. Order money
orders on PS Form 17                                                                                         -         2b       -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C8.3)




                                                                      35
                                                                                                              5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                    4. OJT
                                                                                                              CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                            TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                           2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                            TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                   (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                       2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                    A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                          PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                   START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                 AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                   DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.3.8.6. Validate receipt of money
orders                                                                                                         -         2b       -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C8.4)
2.3.8.7. Identify discrepancies in
money order shipments                                                                                          -         -        -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C8.4)
2.3.8.8. Generate master DD Form
885 for money orders                                                                                           -         2b       -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C8.5.1)
2.3.8.9. Maintain and secure blank
money orders                                                                                                   -         2b       -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C8.6)
2.3.8.10. Maintain and secure money
order imprinter
                                                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 9 Page
23
2.3.9. Close Of Day Procedures
2.3.9.1. Accept remittances from
clerks
                                                                                                               -         -        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.2), and AF
Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.9.2. Check associated AICs for
accuracy
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.4 and                                                                                     -         1a       -      X       X
C7.3.4.5) , and AF Postal Training
Guide 2
2.3.9.3. Verify PS Form 3533
TR: DoD 4525.6-M                                                                                               -         -        -      X       X
(C7.3.4.4)
2.3.9.4. Reopen clerk disks and assist
in making corrections to daily business
                                                                                                               -         2b       -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.4), and AF
Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.9.5. Consolidate clerk disks
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C7.3.4.5.1), and                                                                             -         2b       -      X       -
AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.9.6. Print final unit 1412
TR: AF Postal Training                                                                                         -         2b       -      X       -
Guide 2
2.3.9.7. Print Clerk Balances report
                                                                                                               -         2b       -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.9.8. Print EMMS report
TR: AF Postal Training                                                                                         -         2b       -      -       -
Guide 2
2.3.9.9. Print Money Orders report
                                                                                                               -         2b       -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.9.10. Print and verify debit/credit
batch reports
                                                                                                               -         -        -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2, and
TRANZ 380 User’s manual
2.3.9.11. Transfer unit 1412 data to
RCU disk                                                                                                       -         2b       -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.9.12. Access AMPS and upload
RCU disk data                                                                                                  -         -        -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.9.13. Prepare funds for deposit
                                                                                                               -         2b       -      X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C6.4.8)




                                                                        36
                                                                                                                5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                      4. OJT
                                                                                                                CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                              TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                             2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                              TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                     (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                         2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                      A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                            PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                     START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                   AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                     DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.3.9.14. Make daily backup of
supervisor disk                                                                                                  -         2b       -      X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.3.9.15. File and maintain unit
documentation
                                                                                                                 -         2b       -      X       -
TR: AFRIMS and AF Postal Training
Guide 2
2.4. PROCESSING AND
TRANSPORTATION OF
                                            FOR PT
REGISTERED MAIL AT
MPO/AMT/MCA
2.4.1. Explain registered mail security
requirements                                    *                                                                -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.2.1)
2.4.2. Authorize entry or provide
escort to and within the registry
                                                                                                                1a         -       X       X       X
section
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.3.3)
2.4.3. Prepare, use, and explain
disposition of PS Form 1625, Record
                                                                                                                 -         -       X       X       -
of Entry - Registry Section
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 4
2.4.4. Explain registered mail
accountability transfer procedures                                                                              1a         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.3.5.6)
2.4.5. Process/coordinate protection
of coded (high value) shipments                                                                                  -         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.2.5)
2.4.6. Complete registered mail tracer
action
                                                                                                                 -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.7.11), and
USPS T-7 HBK (473.43)
2.4.7. Inventory registered mail using
DD Form 2261, Registered Mail-
                                                                                                                1a         -       X       X       X
Balance and Inventory
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.3.2)
2.4.8. Accept responsibility for registry
section by signing DD Form 2261                                                                                 2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.3.2)
 2.5. INBOUND REGISTERED MAIL
2.5.1. Verify DD Form 1384,
Transportation Control and Movement
Document, or DD Form 1372, Mail
Manifest, for receipt from a closed                                                                             1a         -       X       X       -
body type vehicle
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.2 and
C11.4.2)
2.5.2. Conduct ramp watch
                                                                                                                 -         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (9.8.1.4)
2.5.3. Verify manifest from
commercial and Air Mobility Command
                                                                                                                 -         -       X       X       -
air carriers
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.4.2)
2.5.4. Report discrepancies
                                                                                                                 -         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.5.2)
2.5.5. Verify PS Form 3854, Manifold
Registry Dispatch Book, incoming
                                                                                                                2b         -       X       X       -
truck bill
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.4.1.2)




                                                                          37
                                                                                                              5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                    4. OJT
                                                                                                              CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                            TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                           2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                            TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                   (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                       2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                    A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                          PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                   START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                 AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                   DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.5.6. Inspect incoming registered
mail for possible tampering                                                                                   1b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.6)
2.5.7. Witness opening of registered
mail pouches                                                                                                  1b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.6.1)
2.5.8. Verify contents of pouches and
endorse PS Form 3854, inside bill                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.6.2)
2.5.9. Complete coupon portion of PS
Form 3854 for discrepancies                                                                                   2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.6.3.3)
2.5.10. Process damaged official/
personal registered mail                                                                                       -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.6.3.10)
2.5.11. Prepare PS Form 3826,
Registry Irregularity Report                                                                                   -         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.6.3.11)
2.5.12. Report possible compromise
of classified information
                                                                                                               -         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.6.3.10), and
AFI 31-401
2.5.13. Prepare PS Form 3883, Firm
Delivery Book for Accountable Mail, for
                                                                                                              2b         -       X       X       -
delivery to unit mail clerks
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.2.2)
2.5.14. Prepare PS Form 3849,
Delivery Notice/Reminder/Receipt, for
                                                                                                              2b         -       X       X       -
delivery to authorized individuals
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.7)
2.5.15. Determine disposition of
undeliverable registered mail                                                                                  -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.4.5)
2.6. OUTBOUND REGISTERED
MAIL
2.6.1. Verify articles meet
requirements for registered mail                                                                              2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DMM (Section 500)
2.6.2. Accept registered mail on PS
Form 3806, Receipt for Registered
                                                                                                              2b         -       X       X       -
Mail
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.3.5.2)
2.6.3. Accept registered mail on PS
Form 3877, Firm Mailing Book                                                                                  2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.3.5.3)
2.6.4. Cancel or postmark registered
mail                                                                                                          2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.3.5.4)
2.6.5. Process missent registered mail
                                                                                                              2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.1.3.2.4)
2.6.6. Prepare registered mail for
dispatch
                                                                                                              2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.7.5.1), and AF
Postal Training Guide 4
2.6.7. Prepare inside bill on PS Form
3854                                                                                                          2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.7.5.2)
2.6.8. Seal pouched registered mail
                                                                                                              2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.7.5.4)




                                                                        38
                                                                                                              5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                    4. OJT
                                                                                                              CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                            TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                           2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                            TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                   (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                       2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                    A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                          PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                   START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                 AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                   DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.6.9. Prepare outside bill on PS Form
3854                                                                                                          2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.7.10.1)
2.6.10. Prepare DD Form 1384
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.7.8 and                                                                                  2b         -       X       X       -
C11.4.2.1.1)
2.6.11. Explain transportation security
procedures when dispatching mail                                                                              A          -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.8)
2.6.12. Prepare PS Form 3854, for
dispatch on US commercial air or inter
                                                                                                               -         -       X       X       -
theater AMC
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.7.6.1)
2.6.13. Secure/tender containerized
shipments for dispatch on commercial
                                                                                                               -         -       X       X       -
air carriers
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.8.1.2)
2.7. CLOSE OF
BUSINESS/TRANSFER OF
ACCOUNTABILITY PROCEDURES
2.7.1. Complete DD Form 2261
                                                                                                              2b         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.3.5.8)
2.7.2. Secure registered mail section
TR: DoD 4525.6-M                                                                                               -         -       X       X       X
(C93.2.5)
2.8. RECEIPT AND DISPATCH
2.8.1. Operate scales
TR: Operator’s manual and local                                                                                -         -       X       X       -
procedures
2.8.2. Cancelling Machines
2.8.2.1. Maintain date
                                                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
TR: Operator’s manual
2.8.2.2. Conduct periodic
maintenance                                                                                                    -         -        -      -       -
TR: Operator’s manual
2.8.3. Incoming Mail
2.8.3.1. Verify mail shipments
                                                                                                              1a         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.4.2)
2.8.3.2. Annotate mail manifest (DD
1372 or DD 1384) to reflect accurate
                                                                                                              1a         -       X       X       -
data
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9 and 11)
2.8.3.3. Inspect mail pouches for
serviceability
                                                                                                               -         -       X       X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 2,
USPS Poster 114-A
2.8.3.4. Determine proper disposition
of loose articles found in the mail                                                                           1a         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.3.2)
2.8.3.5. Process damaged mail
                                                                                                              1a         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.3.2)
2.8.3.6. Prepare PS Form 673, Report
of Rifled Parcel                                                                                              1a         -        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.5.4.4)
2.8.3.7. Prepare DD Form 2273,
Irregularities in Makeup and Dispatch
                                                                                                              1a         -        -      X       X
of Mail
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.1.6.1)




                                                                        39
                                                                                                               5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                     4. OJT
                                                                                                               CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                             TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                            2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                             TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                    (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                        2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                     A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                           PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                    START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                  AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                    DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.8.3.8. Process missent mail
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.1.6.2)                                                                                     -         -       X       X       -

2.8.3.9. Process registered mail when
found in ordinary mail                                                                                         2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.5.2.6)
2.8.4. Outgoing Mail
2.8.4.1. Prepare mail collection labels
for drop boxes                                                                                                  -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.1.3.1)
2.8.4.2. Collect mail from drop boxes
                                                                                                               1a         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.1.3.1)
2.8.4.3. Process loose stamps
                                                                                                                -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.5.5)
2.8.4.4. Inspect mail for proper size,
postage and surcharges
                                                                                                               2b         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (DL1.1.29), DMM
(Section 500) and IMM
2.8.4.5. Sort letters/flats for dispatch
                                                                                                               2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.1.3.3)
2.8.4.6. Process voting/balloting
material                                                                                                       2b         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.5, C10.4.9)
2.8.4.7. Update automated data
bases with status of balloting material
                                                                                                                -         -       X       X       X
TR: MPSA, and AF Postal Training
Guide 5
2.8.4.8. Postmark mail
                                                                                                               2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.1.3.2)
2.8.4.9. Prepare direct letter
ties/bundles/sacks                                                                                             1a         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.1.4)
2.8.4.10. Prepare slide labels and
tags for dispatch
                                                                                                                -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.1.4.3 and
C3.1.4.4)
2.8.4.11. Tray/pouch mail
                                                                                                                -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.1.4.2)
2.8.4.12. Record weights on mail
                                                                                                               2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.1.4.4)
2.8.4.13. Prepare DD Form 1384
                                                                                                               2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C9.7.8)
2.8.4.14. Prepare DD Form 1372
                                                                                                               2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.4.2)
2.8.4.15. Load mail trucks, pallets or
containers                                                                                                      -         -       X       X       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 5
2.8.4.16. Return empty equipment
                                                                                                                -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.1.4.5)
2.8.4.17. Maintain mail routing
guides/schemes                                                                                                  -         -        -      X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 5
2.8.4.18. Complete PS Form 5049,
Mail Found in Supposedly Empty
                                                                                                                -         -       X       X       -
Equipment
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.1.4.5)
2.8.4.19. Process PS Form 1509,
Sender’s Application for Recall of Mail
                                                                                                                -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M
(C10.4.2.9)




                                                                         40
                                                                                                             5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                   4. OJT
                                                                                                             CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                           TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                          2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                           TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                      2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                   A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                         PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                  START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                  DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.9. POSTAL SERVICE CENTERS
(PSC) AND UNIT MAIL ROOMS
(UMR)
2.9.1. Process incoming mail for
delivery by class                                                                                            2b         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.3.7.6)
2.9.2. Scan barcoded mail
                                                                                                              -         -        -      -       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 5
2.9.3. Process damaged mail
                                                                                                              -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.3.2)
2.9.4. Process unsealed first class
mail using PS Label 21, Officially
                                                                                                              -         -       X       X       -
Sealed
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.3.3)
2.9.5. Separate accountable and non-
accountable mail for delivery
                                                                                                             2b         -        -      -       -
notification
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.7)
2.9.6. Maintain directory system
                                                                                                              -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.4.2.1)
2.9.7. Mail Delivery
2.9.7.1. Deliver mail through
receptacles                                                                                                  1a         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.3.7)
2.9.7.2. Deliver mail to
UMC
                                                                                                              -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M
(C3.2.5.5)
2.9.7.3. Process PS Form 3907, Post
Office Box Mail Pickup Notice                                                                                2b         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.3.7.3)
2.9.7.4. Process PS Form 3849,
Delivery Notice/Reminder/Receipt for
                                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
Accountable Mail
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.7)
2.9.7.5. Process PS Form 3883, Bulk
Delivery Receipt, for accountable mail
                                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
delivery to UMCs
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.8)
2.9.7.6. Forward mail as required
TR: DoD 4525.6-M                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
(C3.3.7.4. and C3.4.6)
2.9.7.7. Process hold mail
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.3.7.4,                                                                                  2b         -        -      -       -
C3.9.5.4, C3.4.6.3)
2.9.7.8. Process undeliverable as
addressed mail                                                                                               1a         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.3.7.2)
2.9.7.9. Process final notices
                                                                                                              -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.7)
2.9.7.10. Conduct quality control
checks of receptacles                                                                                         -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.3.5)
2.9.8. Over the Counter Mail
Delivery
2.9.8.1. Verify patron identity
                                                                                                             1a         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.5.5)
2.9.8.2. Process EMMS Label 11-B,
Express Mail Post Office to Addressee                                                                        2b         -        -      -       -
TR: Pub 514




                                                                       41
                                                                                                            5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                  4. OJT
                                                                                                            CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                          TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                         2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                          TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                 (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                     2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                  A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                        PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                 START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                               AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                 DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.9.8.3. Process PS Form 3849
                                                                                                            2b         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.7)
2.9.8.4. Scanbarcoded mail
                                                                                                             -         -        -      -       -
TR: User’s manual
2.9.8.5. Process refused mail
                                                                                                            2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.5.8)
2.9.8.6. Process mail
opened by mistake                                                                                            -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.3.4)
2.9.9. Customer Service
2.9.9.1. Advise patrons on
receptacle use                                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.3.3)
2.9.9.2. Advise patrons on 3-line
address format                                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 5
2.9.9.3. Process DD Form 2258,
Temporary Mail
                                                                                                            2b         -        -      -       -
Disposition/Instructions
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.3.7.4)
2.9.9.4. Show patrons how to
complete a change of address                                                                                 -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.3)
2.9.9.5. Advise patrons on use of PS
Form 3801, Standing Delivery Order                                                                          2b         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.5.7)
2.9.9.6. Conduct Unit Mail Room
Inspections
                                                                                                             -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M C15.8.3,and
Appendix 2
2.10. DIRECTORY/
LOCATOR AND
CUSTOMER SERVICES
2.10.1. Mail Receptacles
2.11.1.1. Validate authorizations for
mail services
                                                                                                            1a         -        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.3.3, and
AP1.3)
2.10.1.2. Issue receptacles on DD
Form 2263, Mailing
Address/Combination Notice                                                                                  1a         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.3.3.10 and
C3.3.3.11)
2.10.1.3. Prepare DD Form 2262,
Receptacle Record                                                                                           2b         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.3.3.7)
2.10.1.4. Update master personnel
directory                                                                                                    -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.4.2)
2.10.1.5. Brief personnel on
mailing privileges and importance
of timely change of address                                                                                  -         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3, C10, and
AP1) and local procedures
2.10.1.6. Perform periodic
maintenance on receptacles                                                                                   -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.3.4)




                                                                      42
                                                                                                             5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                   4. OJT
                                                                                                             CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                           TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                          2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                           TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                      2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                   A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                         PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                  START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                  DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.10.1.7. Establish procedures for
personnel out-processing
                                                                                                              -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.3.8) and local
procedures
2.10.1.8. Brief patrons on forwarding
timelines to avoid delay of mail                                                                              -         -        -              -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.4.6)
2.10.1.9. Close receptacles
                                                                                                             2b         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.3.8)
2.10.1.10. Change combinations
                                                                                                              -         -               -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.3.8)
2.10.1.11. Update DD Form 2262,
Receptacle Record                                                                                            2b         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.3.8)
2.10.1.12. Update master personnel
directory for closed receptacles                                                                              -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.4.2)
2.10.2. Directory Mail
2.10.2.1. Identify mail for directory
services                                                                                                     2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.4)
2.10.2.2. Sort mail by class
                                                                                                             2b         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.4)
2.10.2.3. Access local database to
obtain forwarding information                                                                                 -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.4)
2.10.2.4. Apply forwarding information
and endorsements                                                                                             2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.4)
2.10.2.5. Date stamp
directory mail                                                                                               2b         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.4)
2.10.2.6. Process directory mail for
dispatch                                                                                                     2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.4)
2.10.2.7. Prepare PS Form 3579,
Undeliverable Standard Mail (A) and
(B), and Special Standard Mail B, for                                                                        2b         -        -      -       -
periodical class matter
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.4)
2.10.2.8. Process “General Delivery”
mail                                                                                                         2b         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.6)
2.10.2.9. Process undeliverable IDS
                                                                                                             1a         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (3.2.11.8)
2.10.2.10. Provide mail service for
confined or casualty personnel
                                                                                                              -         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.2.9 and
C3.4.9.2)
2.10.2.11. Process mail through
Summary Court Officer for deceased
                                                                                                              -         -       X       X       X
personnel
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C3.4.9)
2.10.2.12. Maintain current copy
(back up) automated database
                                                                                                              -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M
(C3.4.3.7)
2.10.3. Claims




                                                                       43
                                                                                                                 5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                       4. OJT
                                                                                                                 CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                               TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                              2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                               TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                      (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                          2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                       A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                             PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                      START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                    AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                      DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.10.3.1. Assist customers in filing
indemnity claims with USPS                                                                                       1a         -        -      -       -
TR: DMM (Section 609)
2.10.3.2. Explain time limits for claims
                                                                                                                 1a         -        -      -       -
TR: DMM (Section 609)
2.10.3.3. Explain filing for international
claims                                                                                                            -         -        -      -       -
TR: DMM (Section 609), and IMM
2.10.3.4. Explain to patron
requirements for loss claims                                                                                     1a         -        -      -       -
TR: DMM (Section 609)
2.10.3.5. Explain to patron
requirements for damage claims                                                                                   1a         -        -      -       -
TR: DMM (Section 609)
2.10.3.6. Prepare PS Form 1000,
Domestic Claim or Registered Mail
                                                                                                                 1a         -        -      -       -
Inquiry
TR: DMM (Section 609)
2.10.3.7. Explain adjudication process
                                                                                                                  -         -        -      -       -
TR: DMM (Section 609)
2.10.3.8. Distribute PS Form 1000 for
claims submission                                                                                                 -         -        -      -       -
TR: DMM (Section 609)
2.10.3.9. Assess if items received for
claims are salvageable                                                                                           1a         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.5.6.8)
2.10.3.10. Dispose of non-
salvageable items                                                                                                1a         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.5.6.8)
2.10.3.11. Complete PS Form 3831,
Receipt for Articles Damaged in the
                                                                                                                 1a         -        -      -       -
Mails
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.5.6.8)
2.10.3.12. Complete PS Form 2856,
Damage Report of Insured Parcel and
Contents, for damaged claims filed                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
on-line
TR: DMM (Section 609)
2.10.3.13. Maintain claims log
                                                                                                                  -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.5.6.5)
2.10.3.14. Respond to claims inquiries
from USPS                                                                                                         -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.5.6.5)
2.10.3.15. Process claims for
reimbursement of postage                                                                                          -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.5.6)
2.10.3.16. Complete PS Form 3811-
A, Domestic Return Receipt (After
                                                                                                                  -         -        -      -       -
Mailing)
TR: DMM (Section 500)
2.10.3.17.. Process duplicate claims
                                                                                                                  -         -        -      -       -
TR: DMM (Section 609)
2.10.3.18.. Process salvageable items
for Mail Recovery Center                                                                                          -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.5.6.8)
2.11. OFFICIAL MAIL
2.11.1. Managerial Responsibilities




                                                                           44
                                                                                                              5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                    4. OJT
                                                                                                              CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                            TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                           2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                            TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                   (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                       2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                    A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                          PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                   START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                 AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                   DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.11.1.1. State Official Mail Manager’s
(OMM) responsibilities
TR: DoDI 4525.8/AF Supplement 1                                                                                -         -        -      X       X
(5.4), and DODM 4525.8/AFMAN 33-
306
2.11.1.2. Obtain equipment to operate
an official mail center
                                                                                                               -         -        -      -       X
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306
(C2 and C6.7)
2.11.1.3. Maintain security of postage
meter
                                                                                                               -         -       X       X       X
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306
(C2.8.6)
2.11.1.4. State characteristics of
official mail
                                                                                                               -         -       X       X       X
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306
(C2 and DL1.1.30)
2.11.1.5. Submit budgets for official
postage
TR: DoDI 4525.8/AF Supplement 1                                                                                -         -        -      X       X
(Enclosure 4) and DODM
4525.8_AFMAN 33-306 (C2.7)
2.11.1.6. Monitor postage
expenditures for restricted and
unauthorized usage                                                                                             -         -        -      -       -
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306
(C1)
2.11.1.7. Report misuse of
appropriated funds postage
TR: DoDI 4525.8/AF Supplement 1                                                                                -         -       X       X       X
(5.4.3 and E4.3.3.1.3), and DODM
4525.8_AFMAN 33-306 (C1.15)
2.11.1.8. Submit postal expenditure
report
                                                                                                               -         -        -      X       X
TR: DoDI 4525.8/AF Supplement 1
(Enclosure 4)
2.11.1.9. Enforce cost reduction
measures
                                                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306
(C.1)
2.11.1.10. Report prepaid postage
purchases
TR: DoDI 4525.8/AF
                                                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
Supplement 1 (Enclosure 4),
and AF Postal Training
Guide 8
2.11.1.11. Prepare schedule for
mobile distribution vehicle (MDV)
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306                                                                                   -         -        -      -       -
(C7.6), and AF Postal Training Guide
8
2.11.1.12. Provide initial and annual
Activity Distribution Office (ADO)
training                                                                                                       -         -        -      -       -
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306
(C2)
2.11.1.13. Conduct annual ADO
Inspections
                                                                                                               -         -        -      X       X
TR: DoDI 4525.8/AF Supplement 1
(Enclosure 4)




                                                                        45
                                                                                                              5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                    4. OJT
                                                                                                              CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                            TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                           2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                            TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                   (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                       2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                    A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                          PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                   START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                 AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                   DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.11.1.14. Deliver
accountable mail on DD
Form 2825, Internal Receipt,
                                                                                                               -         -       X       X       -
or PS Form 3883
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306
(C.1 and C8.8)
2.11.1.15. Inspect envelope and
packaging for proper addressing and
preparation                                                                                                    -         -       X       X       X
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN
33-306 (C1 and C3)
2.11.1.16. Accept accountable mail on
DD Form 2825 or PS Form 3877, Firm
Mailing Book for Accountable Mail                                                                              -         -       X       X       -
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306
(C2.3.6)
2.11.1.17. Process DoD
Official Inter/Intra-theater
mail (DODOIM)                                                                                                  -         -       X       X       -
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306
(C1.16 and C2.6.4.1)
2.11.2. Outbound Mail
2.12.2.1. Provide lowest postage and
fees
                                                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306
(C1.6.2)
2.11.2.2. Prepare consolidated
mailings
                                                                                                               -         -       X       X       -
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN
33-306 (C2)
2.11.2.3. Select authorized special
services
                                                                                                               -         -       X       X       -
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306
(C1.8)
2.11.2.4. Endorse mail according to
class
                                                                                                               -         -       X       X       X
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN
33-306 (C1.8)
2.11.2.5. Establish criteria for use of
EMMS
TR: DoDI 4525.8/AF Supplement 1                                                                                -         -        -      X       X
(Enclosure 4) and DODM
4525.8_AFMAN 33-306 (C1.10)
2.11.2.6. Monitor proper use of EMMS
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306                                                                                   -         -       X       X       -
(C1.10)
2.11.2.7. Apply for EMMS
refund of postage
                                                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN
33-306 (C1.10.5)
2.11.2.8. Perform proper handling and
consolidation of registered mail
                                                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306
(C2)
2.11.2.9. Compute postage and fees
TR: DODM 4525.8_AFMAN 33-306                                                                                   -         -        -      -       -
(C2.6)
2.12. MAIL CONTROL ACTIVITY
(MCA)




                                                                        46
                                                                                                                 5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                       4. OJT
                                                                                                                 CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                               TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                              2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                               TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                      (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                          2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                       A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                             PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                      START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                    AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                      DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.12.1. Explain mission and
responsibilities
                                                                                                                  -         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M
(C11.1.4)
2.12.2. Determine when to use
commercial or AMC air carriers                                                                                    -         -        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.2.6)
2.12.3. Post dispatch schedules
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.1.4.7) and
                                                                                                                  -         -       X       X       -
AF Postal Training Guide 7, and
AMPS User’s Guide
2.12.4. Coordinate logistical support
with other activities                                                                                             -         -        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.1.2.4)
2.12.5. Review PS Forms 2759-M,
Report of Irregular Handling of Military
Mail                                                                                                              -         -        -      X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 7,and
AMPS User’s Guide
2.12.6. Conduct air carrier meetings
TR: AF Postal Training                                                                                            -         -        -      X       X
Guide 7
2.12.7. Prepare meeting minutes for
distribution
                                                                                                                  -         -        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.3.4), and AF
Postal Training Guide 7
2.12.8. Commercial Airlines and
AMC Performance Checks
2.12.8.1. Perform operational checks
of carrier facilities for proper handling
and timely movement                                                                                               -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.1.4), and AF
Postal Training Guide 7
2.12.8.2. Maintain inventory control of
inbound mail to ensure first-in, first-out
processing                                                                                                        -         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.1.4), and
USPS HBK T-7 (220)
2.12.8.3. Monitor ramp transfers
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.1.4), and                                                                                   -         -       X       X       X
USPS HBK T-7 (210)
2.12.9. Mail Receipt
Procedures
2.12.9.1. Accept mail from air carriers
according to delivery agreements
                                                                                                                  -         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.1.4), USPS
HBK T-7 (210), and local policies
2.12.9.2. Verify incoming mail
shipments using PS Form 2942-A,
Military Mail AV-7 Delivery List, AMPS
                                                                                                                  -         -       X       X       X
inbound reports or DD Form 1384
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.2.8), and
USPS HBK T-7 (340)
2.12.9.3. Report irregularities on PS
Form 2759-M
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.2.8), USPS                                                                                 2b         -       X       X       X
HBK T-7 (625), and AMPS User’s
Guide
2.12.9.4. Prepare irregularity reports
on AMC                                                                                                            -         -        -      -       -
TR: local policies




                                                                           47
                                                                                                             5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                   4. OJT
                                                                                                             CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                           TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                          2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                           TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                  (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                      2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                   A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                         PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                  START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                  DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.12.9.5. Prepare postal net alerts
(PNA)
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.2.9), and                                                                               -         -       X       X       X
AF Postal Training Guide 7, and
AMPS User’s Guide
2.12.9.6. Complete PS Form 2734-B,
Air Transportation Pay and Routing
Adjustment for International and
                                                                                                              -         -       X       X       X
Military Mail
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.2.8), and
USPS HBK T-7 (680)
2.12.9.7. Complete holiday volume
(HOLVOL) report
                                                                                                              -         -        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.2.9.4), and
AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.12.9.8. Prepare Daily Mail
Movement Status Report (DAYSTAT)                                                                              -         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.2.9.3)
2.12.10. Mail Dispatch Procedures
2.12.10.1. Explain dispatch
procedures and documentation
requirements for air carriers
                                                                                                              -         -       X       X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.2.8 and
C11, Fig 1.) and USPS HBK T-7
(340)
2.12.10.2. Forecast movement of mail
according to air carrier schedules
                                                                                                              -         -        -      X       X
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.2.4), and
AF Postal Training Guide 2
2.12.10.3. Coordinate request for
containers with mail carriers
                                                                                                              -         -       X       X       -
TR: USPS HBK T-7 (220), and local
policies
2.12.10.4. Explain mail categories and
precedence for dispatch                                                                                       -         -       X       X       -
TR: USPS HBK T-7 (C4)
2.12.11. Mail Movement
Forms
2.12.11.1. Prepare DD Form 1372,
Mail Manifest                                                                                                2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.4.2)
2.12.11.2. Prepare DD Form 1384,
Transportation Control and Movement
Document                                                                                                     2b         -       X       X       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.F1), and
local policies
2.12.11.3. Prepare PS Form 2942-A
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.2.7), USPS
                                                                                                             1a         -       X       X       X
HBK T-7 (340), and AMPS User’s
Guide
2.13. AERIAL MAIL TERMINAL
(AMT) OPERATIONS
2.13.1. Explain mission and
responsibilities                                                                                              -         -        -      X       X
TR: USPS HBK T-7 (140)
2.13.2. Identify mail storage and
sorting locations                                                                                             -         -       X       X       X
TR: Local policies




                                                                       48
                                                                                                              5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                    4. OJT
                                                                                                              CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                            TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                           2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                            TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                   (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                       2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                    A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                          PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                   START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                 AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                   DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

2.13.3. Stage incoming mail by
category for dispatch
                                                                                                               -         -       X       X       X
TR: USPS HBK T-7 (C4), and local
policies
2.13.4. Publish truck dispatch/receipt
schedules                                                                                                      -         -        -      X       X
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 7
2.13.5. Check transiting mail for
proper size/postage and
                                                                                                               -         -       X       X       -
endorsements
TR: AF Postal Training Guide 7
3. HIGHER
HEADQUARTERS (HHQ)
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR
MILITARY POSTAL
SERVICE
TR: DoD 4525.6-M
3.1. PLANS AND
PROGRAMS
3.1.1. Prepare postal support plan
annexes/appendices                                                                                             -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C2)
3.1.2. Open postal activities
                                                                                                               -         1a       -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C1.1.7)
3.1.3. Close postal activities
TR: DoD 4525.6-M
                                                                                                               -         1a       -      -       -
(C1.1.7.4) and local
procedures
3.1.4. Reclassify postal activities
                                                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C1.1.7.5)
3.1.5. Establish contingency postal
operations
                                                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C2.7 and
C1.1.7.6)
3.1.6. Conduct deliberate planning
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C2.7 and                                                                                     -         -        -      -       -
C1.1.7.6)
3.1.7. Provide input to exercise plans
                                                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C2.11)
3.1.8. Source contingency taskings
                                                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C2)
3.1.9. Prepare Free Mail request
message                                                                                                        -         1a       -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C2.8)
3.1.10. Transportation
3.1.10.1. Task postal activities to
conduct transit time surveys                                                                                   -         -        -      -       -
TR: MAJCOM Guidance
3.1.10.2. Verify DAYSTAT reports
                                                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6 (C11.2.9)
20.10.3. Submit HOLVOL reports
                                                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.2.9)
3.1.10.4. Establish mail routing guides
and schemes                                                                                                    -         -        -      -       -
TR: MAJCOM Guidance
3.1.10.5. Verify daily dispatch
schedules                                                                                                      -         -        -      -       -
TR: MAJCOM Guidance




                                                                        49
                                                                                                               5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                     4. OJT
                                                                                                               CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                             TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                            2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                             TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND                    (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                        2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                     A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                           PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                                    START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                                  AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                                    DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

3.1.10.6. Process DD Forms 2273,
Irregularities in Makeup and Dispatch of
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
Mail
TR: MAJCOM Guidance
3.1.10.7. Process PS Form 2734-B, Air
Transportation Pay and Routing
Adjustment – International and Military                                                                         -         -        -      -       -
Mail
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C11.2.)
3.1.11. Operations
3.1.11.1. Establish publications
requirements                                                                                                    -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C4.1.3)
3.1.11.2. Monitor Postal Supply and
Equipment ordering
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
TR: AF Postal Training
Guide 9
3.1.11.3. Process mail cover requests
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C10.7.8)
3.1.11.4. Process postal offense
reports
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C14)
and AMPS
3.1.11.5. Establish postal incident
policies                                                                                                        -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C14)
3.1.11.6. Manage command official
mail program                                                                                                    -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.8-M
3.1.11.7. Issue unit numbers
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.8-M
3.1.11.8. Monitor semiannual official
mail expenditures                                                                                               -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.8-M
3.1.12. Audits and
Inspections
3.1.12.1. Develop
inspection criteria checklists                                                                                  -         -        -      -       -
TR: MAJCOM Guidance
3.1.12.2. Audit postal finance records
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C12.3)
3.1.12.3. Conduct postal operations
inspections
                                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C1.1
and C12.4)
3.1.12.4. Validate postal facility
criteria                                                                                                        -         -        -      -       -
TR: DoD 4525.6-M (C13.5)
3.1.12.5. Manage command postal
training program                                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
TR: TBA Guide
3.2. Postal Automation
TR: MAJCOM guidance
and system manuals
3.2.1. Automated Military Postal
System (AMPS)
3.2.1.1. Request AMPS access for
                                                                                                                -         -        -      X       X
new users
3.2.1.2. Update MPO profile                                                                                     -         -        -      X       X
3.2.1.3. Update ZIP +4 inventory                                                                                -         -        -      -       -




                                                                         50
                                                                                                          5. PROFICIENCY        6. INDICATES
                                                                                4. OJT
                                                                                                          CODES INDICATE     MANDATORY TASKS,
                                                                                                        TRAINING DELIVERED   BASED ON TRAINEE’S
                                       2. CORE     3. CBRNE                                                AT IPTA POSTAL    RANK (SEE NOTE 7 IN
                                        TASKS        TASKS                                              COURSES (SEE NOTE       STS PREFACE)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND               (SEE NOTE   (SEE NOTE                                              4 IN STS PREFACE)
TECHNICAL REFERENCES                   2 IN STS     3 IN STS
                                                                A         B          C          D          A         B        A      B       C
                                      PREFACE)    PREFACE)
                                                               START     STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER     OPS       SUPVR
                                                                                                                             AMN    NCO    SNCO
                                                               DATE      DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS   COURSE    COURSE

3.2.1.4. Upload Parcel Tracking
                                                                                                           -         -       X       X       X
System (PTS) data
3.2.1.5. Upload daily USPS delivery
                                                                                                           -         -       X       X       -
data
3.2.2. AF Postal Community of
                                                                                                           -         -        -      -       -
Practice (CoP)
3.2.2.1. Request CoP access                                                                                -         -        -      -       -
3.2.2.2. Grant CoP access to base
                                                                                                           -         -        -      -       -
level users
3.2.2.3. Access policy/training
materials from document management                                                                         -         -        -      -       -
folders




                                                                    51
Section B - Course Objective List
4. Postal course curriculum is developed and managed in accordance with Interservice Training Review
Organization (ITRO) policies and procedures.
Section C - Support Materials
5. There are currently no support material requirements. This area is reserved.
Section D - Training Course Index
6. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for continuation/
supplemental training. For information on all formal courses, refer to the Air Force Education and
Training Course Announcements (ETCA) database, formerly AFCAT 36-2223, USAF Formal Schools
Catalog, at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.
7. Interservice Postal Training Activity (IPTA) In-Residence Courses.
Course Number                              Course Title                                 Location
E5ALA8M000 00BA                            Postal Operations Course                     Ft Jackson SC
E5ALA8M000 00AA                            Postal Supervisory Course                    Ft Jackson SC

8. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Courses. For a current listing of
AFIADL courses go to http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl.
9. Exportable Courses.
For a current list of available CBT courses refer to the AF e-Learning site (accessible through the AF
Portal, https://www.my.af.mil).
Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements
10. There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                     52
