DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                        CFETP 2A6X2
Headquarters US Air Force                                                            Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                          1 January 2012



                              AFSC 2A6X2

                 AEROSPACE GROUND

                             EQUIPMENT




        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION

                  AND TRAINING PLAN
      ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                  www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

         RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication .
This Page Intentionally Blank
                                          CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                           AEROSPACE GROUND EQUIPMENT SPECIALTY
                                                         AFSC 2A6X2

                                                                          Table of Contents

PART I                                                                                                                                                                  Page

Preface .................................................................................................................................................................... 1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained ............................................................................................................................ 2

Section A--General Information ............................................................................................................................ 5
     Purpose of the CFETP
     Use of the CFETP
     Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B--Career Progression and Information ................................................................................................. 6
     Specialty Description
     Skill/Career Progression
        Apprentice Level (3)
        Journeyman Level (5)
        Craftsman Level (7)
        Superintendent Level (9)
     Training Decisions
     Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities
     Career Field Path
     Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist

Section C--Skill Level Training Requirements .................................................................................................... 13
     Purpose
     Specialty Requirements
        Apprentice Level (3)
        Journeyman Level (5)
        Craftsman Level (7)
        Superintendent Level (9)

Section D--Resource Constraints ........................................................................................................................... 16

Section E--Transitional Training Guide ............................................................................................................... 16

PART II
Section A, Course Objectives ................................................................................................................................. 16

Section B--Support Material .................................................................................................................................. 17

Section C--Training Course Index ........................................................................................................................ 17

Section D--MAJCOM Unique Requirements ....................................................................................................... 19

Section E--Specialty Training Standard (STS) .................................................................................................... 20
____________
OPR: 361 TRS/TRR
Certified by: HQ USAF/A4LF (CMSgt Michael Healy)
Supersedes: CFETP 2A6X2, 01 March 2008
Number of printed pages: 80
                   ;
                 AEROSPACE GROUND EQUIPMENT SPECIALTY
                CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                               AFSC 2A6X2
                              JANUARY 2012

PART I

PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education
and training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training
support resources, and minimum core task requirements for 2A6X2, Aerospace Ground
Equipment Specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and
instills rigor in all aspects of career field training. This CFETP supersedes 2A6X2 CFETP,
March 2008. Information is available at AF/A4LF web page:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-LG-AF-35.
NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions (Air Reserve Technicians) will use Part II
to support duty position qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors will use both parts to plan, manage, and
control training. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this
specialty receive effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This
plan will enable us to train today‟s workforce for tomorrow‟s jobs.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section
A explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, etc.).
Section D indicates resource constraints to accomplishing this plan, such as funds,
manpower, equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide
requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A contains the course objective list and training
standards supervisors will use to determine if Airmen have satisfied training requirements.
Section B identifies available support materials, such as Qualification Training Package
(QTP), which may be developed to support proficiency training. Section C identifies a
training course index that supervisors can use to determine if resources are available to
support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section D
identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine
additional training required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors
and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the
overall goals of this plan. Section E identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and
includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training; Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course/core task.


ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED


                                                1
Advanced Training (AT). Formal course, which provides individuals who are qualified
their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in
the career field. Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list which
describes a particular job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task
qualifications. The tasks on AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty
position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career
field. It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to
make career field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication and to ensure training is
budget defensible.

Certification – A formal indication of an individual‟s ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official – A person authorized by appropriate commander to determine an
individual‟s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. Additional training that exceeds minimum upgrade requirements
and has an emphasis on present or future duty assignments.

Contract Training. Type 1 training that receives the same priority funding as Air Force
directed training. It supports initial groups of instructors, operators, etc., that the Air Force
requires for new or modified weapon systems.

Core Task. Tasks that the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as minimum
qualification requirements within an Air Force Specialty. Only a percentage of critical tasks
for each system are listed as mandatory core tasks. This gives units needed flexibility to
manage their workforce training. Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG
and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when
capability becomes available.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication identifying the tasks and knowledge
requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level in this
career field. Supervisors may use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in
accordance with AFI 36-2201 Air Force Training Program.

Course Training Standard (CTS). A formal course document that identifies in broad terms
the training members will receive in a specific course.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and
informal training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a
specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive
video, or other necessary means to supplement training.

                                                 2
Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site technical training conducted
by a Training Detachment (TD).

Field Technical Training (Type 7). Special on-site technical training conducted by a
Mobile Training Team (MTT).

Go/No Go Level. In OJT, the stage at which an individual has gained enough skill,
knowledge and experience to either be qualified to perform an identified task without
assistance, or not.

Initial Skills Training. A formal resident course which results in award of a 3-skill level
AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly process for developing,
validating, and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the
knowledge and skills essential for successful job performance.

Maintenance Information System (MIS). Systems and applications that support and
enable maintenance business processes. Used to document maintenance actions. Provides
maintenance supervisors with products to evaluate organizational effectiveness and to aid in
decision-making processes at all levels.

Maintenance Supply Liaison (MSL). Monitors overall maintenance and supply interface,
resolves supply support problems, and coordinates supply-related training needs.

Master Task Listing (MTL). Document maintained within the workcenter that identifies all
tasks performed in a workcenter. This includes core, critical position qualification and
wartime tasks. This document can be automated.

Mobile Training Team (MTT). Instructors, trainers, training aids and operational
equipment that formal schools send to bases or operating locations used to perform formal
training.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used
to certify personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Position Qualification Training. Training designed to qualify an airman in a specific
position and is accomplished after upgrade training.

Proficiency Training. Additional training either in residence or exportable advanced
training courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and
knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to
qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training occurs both during and after the

                                                3
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skill/knowledge training
required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the
unit to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment.
It may be printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower,
and equipment, that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an Airman may be expected to perform or to know
on the job. It serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of
the overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools, Career
Development Courses, and exportable courses.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent, to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities. Standards are used to establish practices or procedures and to evaluate
results.

Supplemental Training. Formal, standardized training within an AFS that is in addition to
required initial skills training and skill level upgrade training. It may support new/newly
assigned equipment, methods, and/or technology.

Task Certifier. See Certification Official

Training Detachment (TD). An AETC detachment that provides maintenance oriented
technical training, at an operational location, on specific systems and their aerospace ground
equipment. A TD aims to qualify personnel on new equipment or in new techniques and
procedures, maintain proficiency and increase skill and knowledge, acquaint personnel with
specific systems, and keep personnel aware of changing concepts and requirements.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school,
on-the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualifications, QTPs, and
CDCs required for award of the 5-, 7-, or 9-skill level.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum made up of the Air Force Career
Field Manager (AFCFM), AETC Training Pipeline Manager, MAJCOM Air Force Specialty
Code (AFSC) Functional Managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC personnel
who determine career path training requirements.

SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for Air Force Career Field
Manager (AFCFM), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders, training
managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career

                                                4
field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in AFSC 2A6X2
should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This CFETP
identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial
skills training is the AFS-specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air
Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. This training is
conducted at various locations by AETC. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses,
task qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for
award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task
performance training designed to qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training
program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide
the performance skills/knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal
specialty training used for selected Airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either
in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job training, provided to
personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade.
The CFETP has several purposes, some of which are:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field
training program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate
point in an individual‟s career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty
and recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual‟s career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and
identifies the training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired
career field training process.

2. Use of the CFETP. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to
ensure comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in
this specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, Training
Detachment (TD), and exportable training based upon requirements established by the users
and documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop
acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or
exportable courses can satisfy these identified requirements. MAJCOM-developed
mandatory training to support this AFS must be identified in this plan and must not duplicate
other available training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this
plan. The list of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. The AETC
training manager for AFSC 2A6X2 will initiate an annual review of this document by AETC

                                                5
and MFM to ensure currency and accuracy. The using MAJCOM representatives and AETC
training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements.
Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

SECTION B - CAREER PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

4. Specialty Description.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Maintains Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) to support
aircraft systems or subsystems. Manages AGE functions and activities. Related DoD
Occupational Subgroup: 160200.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities: Refer to AFECD paragraph 2

4.2.1.. Performs scheduled and unscheduled maintenance on AGE. Inspects, tests, and
operates AGE to determine equipment serviceability and proper operation. Diagnoses
mechanical and electronic circuitry malfunctions using visual and auditory senses, test
equipment, and technical publications. Removes, disassembles, repairs, cleans, treats for
corrosion, assembles, and reinstalls AGE accessories and components. Stencils and marks
AGE. Services equipment with fuel, oil, coolant, water, hydraulic fluid, and air. Operates,
cleans, inspects, and services AGE towing vehicles. Maintains vehicle forms. Provides
dispatch service for AGE, including positioning equipment to support aircraft maintenance
and flying operations.

4.2.2. Diagnoses malfunctions and repairs AGE. Evaluates and performs troubleshooting on
AGE before assigning repair action. Inspects and approves completed maintenance actions.
Prepares AGE for storage, shipment, and mobility deployment. Solves repair problems by
studying drawings, wiring diagrams and schematics, and technical publications. Uses
automated maintenance system to monitor maintenance trends, analyze equipment
requirements, maintain equipment records, and document maintenance actions. Analyzes and
repairs ground support equipment using conventional and digital multimeters, voltmeters,
ohmmeters, oscilloscopes, circuit card testers and hand tools. Maintains AGE external fuel
and grounding systems. Performs battery serviceability checks. Stores, handles, uses, and
disposes of hazardous material and waste according to local, state, federal, and host nation
environmental standards.

4.2.3. Plans and organizes AGE maintenance activities. Establishes production controls and
standards. Interprets and implements policy directives and instructions pertaining to
maintenance, including environmentally safe maintenance practices. Determines resource
requirements, including facilities, training, equipment, and supplies. Inspects maintenance
activities, evaluates resource use, and recommends corrective actions. Determines equipment
serviceability criteria when it does not exist.

5. Career Skill Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice
to the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force‟s ability to
accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan,
develop, manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this
part of the CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable training at appropriate points in


                                                6
their career. Use table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path in conjunction with information below to
manage career skill progression.

5.1. Apprentice (3-level): Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work
with a trainer to enhance their knowledge and skills. They will utilize the Career
Development Course, Task Qualification Training and available exportable courses for
continued advancement. Once task qualified, a trainee may perform the task unsupervised.
Apprentices can be considered for appointment as unit trainers after completion of a formal
trainer course.

5.2. Journeyman (5-level): Once upgraded to the 5-level, the journeyman will enter into
continuation training to broaden their experience base by increasing their knowledge and
skill in troubleshooting and solving more complex problems. 5-levels may be assigned job
positions such as quality assurance and various staff positions. After having 48 months in the
Air Force, 5-levels will attend Airman Leadership School (ALS) to enhance their
Professional Military Education (PME). 5-levels will be considered for appointment as unit
trainers. Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for Weighted Airman Promotion System
(WAPS) testing. They should also continue their education toward a Community College of
the Air Force (CCAF) degree.

5.3. Craftsman (7-level): A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and
management positions such as shift leader, element NCOIC, flight/section chief, and task
certifier. They can also be assigned to work in staff positions. Craftsmen should take
courses to obtain added knowledge on management of resources and personnel. Continued
academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is encouraged. In addition,
when selected for or upon promotion to TSgt, individuals will complete the Non-
Commissioned Officer Academy (NCOA).

5.4. Superintendent (9-level): A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight
chief, production supervisor, and various staff jobs. Additional training in the areas of
budget, manpower, resources, and personnel management should be pursued. Additional
higher education and completion of courses outside their career AFSC are also
recommended.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Aerospace Ground
Equipment 2A6X2 Career Field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how
to meet these training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce
duplication and eliminate a disjointed approach to training. The following training decisions
were made by MAJCOM Functional Managers and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) at the
2A6X2, Utilization and Training Workshop held at Sheppard AFB, 20 – 24 June 2011:

6.1. Initial Skills: The Aerospace Ground Equipment Apprentice course length remained at
95 academic days with 68 additions and/or deletions that affected multiple levels of training.
Changes included 31 reductions in training levels, 20 increases in training levels, 7
eliminated topics, and 16 new items introduced into the course.

6.2. Five-Level Upgrade Training: Decisions regarding upgrade training included adding
one new 5-level core task for a smoke test on the New Generation Heater (NGH). As a

                                              7
result, there are 36 five-level core tasks listed in the STS. The 5-level CDC was reviewed. A
significant amount of information was eliminated. 10 items increased in proficiency level.

6.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Training: Six topics decreased in proficiency and one was
eliminated. 7-level core tasks listed in the STS remained at six. The 7-level CDC was
reviewed. 10 items were transferred to the 5-level CDC and 3 were eliminated.

7. Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities. Higher education and
advanced certification is a personal choice that is encouraged for the professional
development of the entire Enlisted Force. Listed below are some current opportunities:

7.1 Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). CCAF is one of several federally
chartered degree-granting institutions and the only 2-year institution serving only military
enlisted personnel. The college is a multi-campus institution and is regionally accredited
through Air University by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of
Colleges and Schools (SACS) to award AAS degrees designed for specific Air Force
occupational specialties. The college offers 68 technical degree programs serving more than
355,000 students at more than 100 worldwide affiliated technical training schools.
Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the
opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Sciences technical degree.

7.2. CCAF Degree Requirements. All enlisted airmen are automatically entered into the
CCAF program. Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and
the following requirements must be met:

                                                                                                   Semester Hours

       Technical Education...................................................................................24
       Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ..........................................6
       Physical Education .......................................................................................4
       General Education ......................................................................................15
       Program Elective ........................................................................................15
                                                                                                     Total: 64

7.2.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): Completion of the career field
apprentice course satisfies some semester hours of the technical education requirements. A
minimum of 24 semester hours of Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the
remaining semester hours applied from Technical Core/Technical Elective courses.

7.2.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional
Military Education (PME) and/or civilian management courses.

7.2.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion
of Basic Military Training.

7.2.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria
for application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement
with the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the
CCAF General Catalog.



                                                              8
7.2.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical
Education; Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education
subjects/courses, including natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six
semester hours of CCAF degree applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this
program may be applied. See the CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates
of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.3. Professional Certifications. Certifications assist the professional development of our
Airmen by broadening their knowledge and skills. Additionally, specific certifications may
be award collegiate credit by CCAF and civilian colleges, saving time and Air Force tuition
assistance funds. It also helps airmen to be better prepared for transition to civilian life. To
learn more about professional certifications and certification programs offered by CCAF,
visit http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp. In addition to its associate degree
program, CCAF offers the following certification programs and resources:

7.3.1. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program. CCAF offers the three-tiered CIC
Program for qualified instructors teaching at CCAF affiliated schools who have demonstrated
a high level of professional accomplishment. The CIC is a professional credential that
recognizes the instructor's extensive faculty development training, education and
qualification required to teach a CCAF course, and formally acknowledges the instructor's
practical teaching experience.

7.3.2. CCAF Instructional Systems Development (ISD) Certification Program. CCAF
offers the ISD Certification Program for qualified curriculum developers and managers who
are formally assigned at CCAF affiliated schools to develop and manage CCAF collegiate
courses. The ISD Certification is a professional credential that recognizes the curriculum
developer‟s or manager‟s extensive training, education, qualifications and experience
required to develop and manage CCAF courses. The certification also recognizes the
individual‟s ISD qualifications and experience in planning, developing, implementing and
managing instructional systems.

 7.3.3. CCAF Professional Manager Certification (PMC). CCAF offers the PMC
Program for qualified Air Force NCO‟s. The PMC is a professional credential awarded by
CCAF that formally recognizes an individual‟s advanced level of education and experience
in leadership and management, as well as professional accomplishments. The program
provides a structured professional development track that supplements Enlisted Professional
Military Education (EPME) and Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP).

7.3.4. CCAF Credentialing and Education Research Tool (CERT). CCAF implemented
CERT to increase awareness of professional development opportunities applicable to Air
Force occupational specialties. It is a valuable resource for Air Force enlisted personnel and
provides information related to specific AFSCs, such as: AFSC description; civilian
occupation equivalencies (US Department of Labor); CCAF degree programs; national
professional certifications; certifying agencies; DANTES testing; and professional
organizations.

7.3.5. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) Instructor Requirements:
Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals
desiring to become an AETC instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A


                                                9
degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of
Colleges and Schools.

8. Career Field Path.
NOTE: For the latest information go to MyDP at:
https://w20.afpc.randolph.af.mil/MYXDP/UserPages/CareerPathEnlisted.aspx

8.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table 8.1. identifies career milestones for the 2A6X2 Air Force
specialty.




                                             10
                                    Table 8.1. Enlisted Career Path
                                                                   Grade Requirements
Education and Training Requirements               Rank      Average       Earliest       High Year Of
                                                             Sew-On       Sew-On             Tenure
                                                                                             (HYT)
Basic Military Training School                     AB
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill              Amn 6 months
Level)                                            A1C           16
                                                             months
Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)             Amn 6 months
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training           A1C           16
  (OJT).                                          SrA        months 28 months               10 years
- Minimum 9 months OJT for retrainees.                       3 years
- Complete all 5-level core tasks.
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when
  available.
Airman Leadership School (ALS)
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in
  service or be a SSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
  SSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                   Trainer                                                Certifier
- Qualified and certified to perform the task   - Be at least a 5-skill level SSgt; and qualified and
  to be trained.                                   certified to perform the task being certified
- Must attend formal AF Trainer Course          - Attend formal AF Trainer Course
                                                 - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs,
                                                      duty positions, units and/or work centers with
                                                  specialized training standardization and certification
                                                                       requirements.
Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)              SSgt      4.6 years     3 years           20 years
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.
- Minimum 6 months on-the-job training for
  retrainees.
- Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks.
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when
  available.
- Attend Craftsman course, if applicable.

Noncommissioned Officer Academy                  TSgt       11.2        5 years          22 years
(NCOA)                                                      years
- Must be a TSgt or MSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for      MSgt                   8 years          24 years
  MSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).                           16.6
                                                            years




                                                   11
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)               SMSgt   20.7    11 years   26 years
- Must be a MSgt or SMSgt Selectee.                   years
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
  SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
- A percentage of top non-select (for
  promotion to E-8) MSgts attend the
  SNCOA each year.
Chief Enlisted Manager(CEM)                   CMSgt   23.6    14 years   30 years
                                                      years




                                               12
SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of task
and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements
for each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for
entry, award, and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training
requirements are identified in the Part II, Section E, Specialty Training Standard (STS) and
Sections A and B of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Requirements:

10.1. Apprentice Level Training: (3-Level):

10.1.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is derived from the official specialty
description in AF Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD).

10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: principles of electricity, electronics,
mechanics, heating, refrigeration, pneumatics, hydraulics, and reciprocating and turbine
engines; troubleshooting, inspecting, repairing, and modifying equipment; use of
Maintenance Information Systems; application of maintenance management techniques;
interpretation of maintenance directives, technical publications, drawings, wiring diagrams
and schematics; and proper identification, handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste
materials.

10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school, or equivalent
GED is mandatory. Courses in general science and industrial arts are desirable.

10.1.1.3. Training. For Award of AFSC 2A632, completion of the basic aerospace ground
equipment J3ABR2A632 046B course is mandatory.

10.1.1.4. Experience. There is no experience necessary for entry to AFSC 2A6X2.

10.1.1.5. Other. For entry into this specialty, the normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-
123, Medical Examination and Standards is mandatory.

10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. The initial skills course J3ABR2A632 046B,
Aerospace Ground Equipment Apprentice, provides the required knowledge and
qualifications. Initial skills training encompasses basic systems theory of operation, system
components, component removal and installation, system operation, introduction to
maintenance concepts, general flight line/shop maintenance practices, use of technical
publications, maintenance documentation, and support equipment familiarization and use.
The 3-level, initial skills course is designed to teach students to perform service inspections
and operational checks of the equipment as well as familiarize them with a wide variety of
common Aerospace Ground Equipment. This strategy allows current AGE-specific training
to be included in the initial skills course, setting a foundation for the training continuum.

10.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training (BMT), Airmen
are assigned to the Training Wing for completion of Course J3ABR2A632 046B, Aerospace


                                               13
Ground Equipment Apprentice. Completion of this course will result in award of the 3-skill
level.

10.2. Journeyman Level Training: (5-Level):

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is derived from the official specialty
description in AFECD.

10.2.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the 3-level qualifications, a 5-level must possess the
knowledge and skills necessary to maintain AGE and associated subsystems. Journeymen
must be task qualified on inspecting AGE and components, troubleshooting and correcting
system malfunctions, repairing and replacing system components, performing operational
checks, and the use and maintenance of test and AGE support equipment. Journeymen apply
the proper procedures for hazardous materials and waste IAW federal, state, local, and host
nation environmental standards.

10.2.1.2. Education. There are no formal education requirements for upgrade to 2A652.

10.2.1.3. Training. Requirements for the Journeyman level require completion of the 5-
level CDC and completion of the core tasks specified in the STS.

10.2.1.4. Experience. Possession of AFS 2A632 and completion of all 5-level core tasks on
AGE identified in the STS is mandatory.

10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. The 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge
training required. Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on
the core tasks identified in the STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current
knowledge base, and provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.

10.2.3. Implementation. The units utilizing this STS, exportable courses, and CDCs
perform training to the 5-level. Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of the 2A652
CDC and 12 months upgrade training.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training: (7-Level):

10.3.1 Specialty Qualification. This information is derived from the official specialty
description in AFECD.

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to a 5-level qualification, an individual must possess
advanced skills and knowledge of supervising and training personnel to maintain AGE
systems and must be able to plan, schedule, and organize maintenance to ensure effective
utilization of available resources. Knowledge is required on advanced repair, inspection,
troubleshooting, and diagnostic techniques. Historical documentation analysis is also
required for all 7-levels.

10.3.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined
for the journeyman level.



                                             14
10.3.1.3. Training. Completion of the 2A672 and 2AX7X CDCs and the resident craftsman
course is mandatory for award of AFS 2A672. Completion of NCO Logistics Course is
desirable.

10.3.1.4. Experience. Completion of all required 7-level core tasks as identified in the STS,
possession of AFSC 2A652, and experience performing or supervising functions such as
inspection, maintenance and troubleshooting.

10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. Seven-level upgrade training will be conducted
by certified trainers using Air force core tasks, unit/MAJCOM specific courses and formal 7-
level courses, and the J3ACR2A672 046B resident course. The 7-level CDCs and resident
course are written to provide advanced knowledge and troubleshooting skills.

10.3.4. Implementation. Upgrade requires completion of CDC 2AX7X and CDC 2A672,
completion of all core tasks and designated critical tasks, 12 months upgrade training,
completion of the Craftsman in-resident technical school, and promotion to E-5.

10.4. Superintendent Level Training (9-Level):

10.4.1 Specialty Qualification. This information is derived from the official specialty
description in AFECD.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to 7-level qualification, an individual must possess
advanced skills and knowledge of concepts and principles in the management of AGE
functions and activities. The 9-level needs to be an effective leader; must be able to forecast,
budget, and manage funds and other assigned resources; and must be knowledgeable of local,
state, federal, and host nation environmental standards and ensure adherence to the proper
handling and disposal of hazardous materials.

10.4.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined
for the craftsman level.

10.4.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A692, promotion to SMSgt is mandatory.

10.4.1.4. Experience. Possession of AFSC 2A672, experience managing or directing repair
activities for AGE, and associated maintenance functions.

10.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. Instruction received at the SNCOA and duty
position qualifications represent the requirements for upgrade to 9 skill level.

10.4.3. Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded after promotion to SMSgt.



SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

11. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies known resource constraints, which
preclude optimum and desired training from being developed or conducted, including
information such as cost and manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint

                                               15
and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint has on training are included.
Also included in this section are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target
completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated
annually.

12. Apprentice Level Training. MC-7 (10), A/M32C-10 (7) MAJCOMs agreed they
desired training on the new MC-7 compressor. If these compressors are not received prior to
course activation, training deficiencies will occur. The additional A/M32C-10 units will
augment/replace current course equipment.

13. Journeyman Level Training. No resource constraints identified.

14. Craftsman Level Training. No resource constraints identified

SECTION E. - TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE. There are no transition training
requirements. This area is reserved.

PART II

SECTION A - COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST

1. Introduction. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the
technical school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written
instruction for the student so they know what is expected of them to successfully complete
training on each task. Each objective is comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard that
states what is expected of the student for each task. The condition is the setting in which the
training takes place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc). The behavior is the observable portion
of the objective (i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is the level of performance
that is measured to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained (i.e. “with no more than
two instructor assists”)

2. Objective Measurement. Each objective uses letter codes to identify how it is measured.
All objectives using the PC code indicate a progress check is used to measure subject or task
knowledge. W indicates a comprehensive written test and is used to measure the subject or
task knowledge at the end of a block of instruction. PC/W indicates a subject or task
knowledge progress check and a separate measurement of both knowledge and performance
elements using a written test.

3. Objective Standard. The standard for written examinations is 70%. Standards for
performance objectives are indicated in the objective and are also indicated on the individual
progress check checklist. The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student‟s
progress on each task. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check,
and students may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory
performance is attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to taking the
written test.

4. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a
particular task or knowledge item. Review the course objective list to determine which STS
item the objective supports. Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section E of this

                                               16
CFETP for an explanation of the proficiency codes. Most task performance is taught to the
„2b‟ proficiency level which means the students can do most parts of the task, but does need
assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also
determine step by step procedures for doing the task. For tasks that are taught to the „3c‟
proficiency level, students can do all parts of the task and only require a spot check on
completed work (competent). The student can also identify why and when a task must be
done and why each step is needed.

5. Course Objective Listing. A detailed listing of initial skills or craftsman course
objectives may be obtained by submitting a written request to 361 TRS/TRR, 501 Missile
Road, Sheppard AFB TX, 76311-2264.

SECTION B - SUPPORT MATERIAL - There are currently no support material
requirements. This area is reserved.

SECTION C - TRAINING COURSE INDEX

6. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the 2A6X2
Aerospace Ground Equipment Specialty and shows how the courses are used by each
MAJCOM in their career field training programs. Refer to the Air Force Education and
Training Course Announcements (ETCA) for information on AETC formal courses listed
below https://etca.randolph.af.mil. For further information on the following courses, contact the
OPR at:

   361 TRS/TRR
   501 Missile Road
   Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2264
   DSN 736-3539

7. Air Force In-Resident Courses:

   COURSE NO.                 COURSE TITLE                         LOCATION     USER
J3ABR2A632 046A     Aerospace Ground Equipment                    361 TRS   AF/ANG/AFRC
                    Apprentice
J3AAR2A672 046A Aerospace Ground Equipment                        361 TRS         AF/ANG/AFRC
                    Technician
J3ACR2A672 046A Aerospace Ground Equipment                        361 TRS         AF
                    Craftsman (Active Duty)
J3ACR2A672 746A Aerospace Ground Equipment                        361 TRS         ANG/AFRC
                    Craftsman (ANG/AFRC)
8. AU/A4L. http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/.

 COURSE NO.                           COURSE TITLE                                    USER
CDC 2A652            Aerospace Ground Equipment Journeyman                        AF/ANG/AFRC
CDC 2A672            Aerospace Ground Equipment Craftsman                         AF/ANG/AFRC
CDC 2AX7X            Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman                              AF/ANG/AFRC



                                               17
For further information on the following AF exportable courses contact the OPR at:
  362 TRS
  613 10th Ave
  Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
  DSN 736-6184
  https://etca.randolph.af.mil/

9. Exportable Courses:

   COURSE NUMBER                    COURSE TITLE               OPR           USER
 J6AZW2AX5X 0F1A              Integrated Maintenance Data    362 TRS     AF/ANG/AFRC
                              System (IMDS) for Flight
                              Line
 J6AZW2AX5X 0B1A              Integrated Maintenance Data    362 TRS     AF/ANG/AFRC
                              System (IMDS) for
                              Backshop
 J6AZW2AX5X 0S1A              Integrated Maintenance Data    362 TRS     AF/ANG/AFRC
                              System (IMDS) for
                              Supervisors

Interactive Courseware (ICW) is available from 367 TRS/TRSS at Hill AFB, Utah and 982
MXS/TSU at Sheppard AFB, Texas.

For further information contact the OPRs at:
  367 TRSS                                   982 MXS/LGMS
  6058 Aspen Ave                             620 J Ave
  Hill AFB, UT 84056                         Sheppard AFB, TX 76311
  DSN 777-7830/8741                          DSN 736-4992/6224

10. Training Detachment (TD) Courses:

 COURSE NUMBER                              COURSE TITLE                               OPR
J4AMP2A6X2 A46A          AGE (A/M32C-10C or -10D Air Conditioner)                    372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X2 B46A          Aerospace Ground Equipment (EPU-6/E Solid-State             372 TRS
                         Frequency Converter)
J4AMP2A6X2 C46A          AGE (MA-3D(R-134) Air Conditioner)                          372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X2 D46A          AGE (Munitions Handling Trailer, MHU-196/M OR MHU-          372 TRS
                         204/M)
J4AMP2A6X2 E46A          AGE (ACE 802 Series Air Conditioner)                        372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X2 F46A          Aerospace Ground Equipment (Hydraulic Test Stand)           372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X2 G46A          Aerospace Ground Equipment Liquid Cooling System Cart       372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X2 H46A          Aerospace Ground Equipment A/M32A-103 Generator Set         372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X2 I46A          PD-501 Air Conditioner (AGE) Technician                     372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X2 K46A          Aerospace Ground Equipment (Maintenance Platform Split      372 TRS
                         Deck, Diesel)
J4AMP2A6X2 L46A          Ground Equipment A/M32A-60/-60A/-60B GEN                    372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X2 M46A          AGE (A/M32A-95 Gas Turbine Compressor)                      372 TRS



                                            18
 COURSE NUMBER                               COURSE TITLE                              OPR
J4AMP2A6X2 N46A          Aerospace Ground Equipment (A/M32A-86 Diesel                372 TRS
                         Generator Set)
J4AMP2A6X2 O46A          Aerospace Ground Equipment (MJ-40 Lift Truck, Diesel)       372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X2 P46A          B809A Diesel Generator Set                                  372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X2 Q46A          Aerospace Ground Equipment (Self Generating Nitrogen        372 TRS
                         Servicing Cart)
J4AMP2A6X2 S46A          Aerospace Ground Equipment EPU-5/E Frequency                372 TRS
                         Converter
J4AMP2A6X2 T46A          Aerospace Ground Equipment (MJ-1 Truck/Lift, Munitions      372 TRS
                         Handling)
J4AMP2A6X2 U46A          Aerospace Ground Equipment (MHU-83C/E Truck/Lift,           372 TRS
                         Munitions Handling)
J4AMP2A6X2 W46A          Aerospace Ground Equipment (New Generation Heater)          372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X2 X46A          Ace Liquid Coolant Supply Cart (Aerospace Ground            372 TRS
                         Equipment) Technician
J4AMP2A6X2 Y46A          Aerospace Ground Equipment (MHU-83 D/E Lift Truck           372 TRS
J4AMP2A6X2 A27A          F-22 Aircraft AGE Polyalphaolefin Service Cart (PAO)        372 TRS
                         (Conversion Training)
J4AMP2A6X2 B27A          F-22 Aircraft AGE Maintenance External Power Converter      372 TRS
                         (EPC) (Conversion Training)
J4AMP2A6X2 C27A          F-22 Aircraft AGE Stored Energy Sys Service Cart            372 TRS
                         (SESSC) (Conversion Training)


For further information on the TD courses, contact the OPRs at:
  372 TRS
  912 I Ave Suite 3
  Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2361
  DSN 736-4801

SECTION D - MAJCOM UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS:

11. MAJCOM Courses: ACC course can be obtained at:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-TE-AC-42

SECTION E - SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

12. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air
Education and Training Command (AETC) for apprentice classes beginning 1 April 2012. It
also identifies training for the Active Duty AGE Craftsman course beginning 1 April 2012
and the ANG/AFRC AGE Craftsman course beginning 1 April 2012.

14. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

14.1. Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common
tasks, knowledge, and Technical References (TR) necessary for Airmen to perform duties in
the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.


                                             19
14.2. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks) by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training
requirements. Core tasks identified with an */R are optional for the AFRC and the ANG
when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability becomes
available. As a minimum, certification on all AFCFM directed core tasks applicable to the
specialty must be completed for skill level upgrade. Exemptions:

14.2.1. Core tasks which are not applicable to base assigned aircraft or equipment are not
required for upgrade (units are not required to send personnel TDY for core task training).

14.2.2. For units with more than one mission design (e.g. C-130) aircraft, upgrade trainees
need only complete core tasks on a single mission design. MFMs, unit commanders, and/or
supervisors may require trainees to complete core task training on additional mission design
aircraft, if desired. If some of these core tasks involve training in another unit on base,
trainees must still complete all core tasks relevant to at least one mission design aircraft.
Flightline-assigned personnel must complete backshop core tasks and vice versa. All units
are bound by the requirements in this CFETP and will accommodate core task trainees from
other units.

14.2.3. Units that use the GO81 maintenance data collection system do not need to complete
Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS) Computer Based Training (CBT) core tasks.
Units that use IMDS do not need to complete GO81 CBT core task. This requirement will
remain in effect until GO81 and IMDS are converted to Expeditionary Combat Support
System (ECSS).

14.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use IMDS/GO81 to document technician qualifications, if
available. Task certification must show a certification or completed date.

14.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course.

14.5. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.

14.6. Job Qualification Standard. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-
job training when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record, and used
according to AFI 36-2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the
go/no go level. "Go" means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets
local requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the
following requirements apply:

14.6.1 Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201.
Automated records, utilizing ECSS or IMDS/G081 reflecting this STS is highly encouraged.
Use of Part II and attachments one and two of this CFETP are mandatory in individual
training records.



                                              20
14.6.1.1. Transcribing from Old CFETP to New CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous
CFETPs are replaced by this CFETP; therefore, transcribing of all training records to this
CFETP STS is mandatory. Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify
all past and current qualifications. Document and certify all previous and current training
IAW AFI 36-2201.

14.7. STS. A guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the AETC
A3/AAD Airman Advancement Division, by Senior NCOs with extensive practical
experience in their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas
judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher
grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual
responsibilities are in AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program. WAPS is not applicable to
the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.

15. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to
the AETC Training Manager at 361 TRS/TRR, 501 Missile Road, Sheppard AFB TX, 76311-
2264, DSN 736-3539. Reference specific STS paragraphs. For a quick response to problems,
call our customer service information line, DSN 736-5236 or 82TRGCSIL@sheppard.af.mil.


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE


OFFICIAL                               LOREN M. RENO
                                       Lieutenant General, USAF
                                       DCS/Logistics, Installations &Mission Support

2 Attachments
1. Proficiency Code Key
2. Specialty Training Standard (STS)




                                             21
This Page Intentionally Blank
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                       Initials (Written)             Last Four of SSAN

                                               Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                    N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I



                                              QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                             Proficiency Code Key
                                    Scale     Definition: The individual
                                    Value
                                       1      Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                              Limited)
          Task                         2      Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance                      3      Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                        4      Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                              (Highly Proficient)
                                       a      Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
         *Task                         b      Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge                       c      Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                              (Operating Principles)
          Levels                       d      Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                       A      Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
       **Subject                       B      Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
       Knowledge                       C      Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
         Levels                        D      Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

*/R Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be
accomplished when capability becomes available.

NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                      23
                                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                         SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                            CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                    2. Core Tasks                3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                             Provided
                                                       A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                  3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                               Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                         Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC


ATTACHMENT 2
NOTE 1: The item marked with a pound (#) in column 4C (1) indicates training is required only in the 2A672 course designed for Active Duty.
NOTE 2: Tasks marked with an asterisk (*) in column 2 identify core tasks for that skill level.
NOTE 3: Plus (+ +) in column 1 for item A2.4.5 indicates MAJCOMs requirement for DOD EPA Refrigerant Certification in initial skills course.
        Training will include preparation for and administration of EPA Certification Tests Type I and Type II.
      2.1 AGE CAREER LADDER
          PROGRESSION                                                                                                            A        -        -       -       -
        TR: AFI36-2101
      2.2 OPERATIONS SECURITY
         (OPSEC) SPECIFIC OPSEC
         VULNERABILITIES OF AFSC                                                                                                 A        -        -       -       -
         2A6X2
        TR: AFI 10-701
      2.3 Nuclear Certified Equipment
         (NCE) Fundamentals                                                                                                      A        -        B       -       -
      TR: AFI 63-125
      2.4 AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL
         SAFETY AND HEALTH
         (AFOSH) PROGRAM
        TR: AFIs 91-202, 91-301, 91-302;
            AFSHSTD 91-501; AFOSH 48
            series; Applicable OSHA &
            AFOSH Stds
      2.4.1 Supervisory responsibilities                                                                                         -        -        -       -      B

      2.4.2 Individual responsibilities                                                                                          B        -        B       -       -

      2.4.3 Practice job safety                                                                                                 2b        -        b       -       -

      2.4.4 Fire prevention                                                                                                      B        -        -       -       -

      2.4.5 Occupational health                                                                                                  B        -        B       -       -
      2.4.6 Initial Hazard Communication
            Training Program                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
        TR: AFI 90-821
      2.4.7 Maintenance Resource
           Management Program                                                                                                    A        -        -       -       -
        TR: AFI 21-101, AFPAM 90-902
      2.5 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
          AND WASTE HANDLING IAW
          ENVIRONMENTAL
          STANDARDS
        TR: AFIs 23-502, 32-7042,
            32-7080, and 90-821
      2.5.1 Types of hazardous
                                                                                                                                 A        -        -       -       -
            materials/fluids used
      2.5.2 Handling procedures                                                                                                  A        -        -       -       -

                                                                            24
                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.5.3 Storage and labeling                                                                                             A        -        -       -       -

    2.5.4 Disposal procedures                                                                                              A        -        -       -       -
    2.5.5 + + Refrigerant certification
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
      TR: J6ASP3E151 029
    2.6 TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS
    2.6.1 Technical Order (TO) System
          Fundamentals                                                                                                     B        -        -       -       -
      TR: TOs 00-5-1
    2.6.2 Use index type TOs
      TR: TOs 0-1 & 0-4 series and                                                                                         -        -        b       -       -
          00-5-1
    2.6.3 Use TOs/Commercial Manuals
          as a source of information for
          performing
      TR: TO 00-5-1 & TOs for specific
          equipment and applicable
          abbreviated TOs
    2.6.3.1 Maintenance                                                                                                   2b        -        b       -       -

    2.6.3.2 Inspections                                                                                                   2b        -        b       -       -
    2.6.4 Use methods and procedures
          TOs for
      TR: TO 00-series
    2.6.4.1 Maintenance information                                                                                        -        -        -       -       -

    2.6.4.2 Management information                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -

    2.6.4.3 Administrative information                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
    2.6.5 Standard Publications
      TR: AFI subject series 21, 91, and
                                                                                                                           -        -        B       -       -
         applicable OSHA and AFOSH
         standards
    2.6.6 Complete TO Improvement
          Report (AFTO Form 22)                                                                                            a        -        b       -       -
      TR: TO 00-5-1
    2.6.7 Time Compliance Technical
          Orders (TCTOs)                                                                                                   A        -        B       -       -
      TR: TOs 00-5-1 and 00-5-15
    2.6.8 TO Files Maintenance
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
      TR: TO 00-5-1
    2.7 SUPERVISION



                                                                      25
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC


    2.7.1 Coordinate work with other
          personnel                                                                                                        -        -        -       -       -
      TR: AFI 21-101
    2.7.2 Plan/Schedule/Assign
      TR: AFI 21-101
    2.7.2.1 Work assignments                                                                                               -        -        -       -       -

    2.7.2.2 Work priorities                                                                                                -        -        -       -       -

    2.7.2.3 Maintenance and repair work                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.7.2.4 Personnel to positions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.7.3 Supervise personnel in
          accomplishing
      TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20
          series
    2.7.3.1 Maintenance                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.7.3.2 Inspections                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
    2.7.3.3 Servicing-Pick-Up-and-
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
            Delivery (SPUD)
    2.7.3.4 Production Support Functions                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -
    2.7.4 Prepare
      TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20-1
    2.7.4.1 Maintenance reports                                                                                            -        -        -       -       -

    2.7.4.2 Inspection reports                                                                                             -        -        -       -       -

    2.7.4.3 Status reports                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -
    2.7.5 Establish
      TR: AFIs 21-101 and
          AFMAN 36-2108
    2.7.5.1 Work methods                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.7.5.2 Work controls                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.7.5.3 Performance standards                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.8 TRAINING
      TR: AFI 36-2201 and
          AFMAN 36-2236
    2.8.1 Maintain training records                                                                                        -        -        -       -       -




                                                                      26
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC


    2.8.2 Recommend personnel for
           training                                                                                                        -        -        -       -       -
      TR: AFI 36-2101 and ETCA
    2.9 MAINTENANCE
         MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
    2.9.1 Functions of the Maintenance
           and Operations Groups                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
      TR: AFI 21-101
    2.9.2 Maintenance levels
                                                                                                                           -        -        A       -       -
      TR: AFI 21-101
    2.9.3 Equipment inspections
                                                                                                                           A        -        B       -       -
      TR: TO 00-20 series
    2.9.4 Use equipment maintenance
           forms                                 *                                                                        2b        -        b       -       -
      TR: TO 00-20 series
    2.9.5 Use Deficiency Reporting
           System                                          *                                                               a        -        b       -       -
      TR: TO 00-35D-54
    2.9.6 Processing and controlling
           material
                                                                                                                           -        -        b       -       -
      TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20
           series
    2.9.7 Product Improvement Working
          Group (PIWG)                                                                                                     -        -        A       -       -
      TR: AFI 21-118
    2.10 MAINTENANCE
         INFORMATION SYSTEM
        (MIS)
      TR: AFCSM 21 series and TO
           00-25 series
    2.10.1 MIS fundamentals                                                                                                A        -        B       -       -
    2.10.2 Integrated Maintenance Data
          System (IMDS)
    2.10.2.1 Create/Schedule Job                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -

    2.10.2.2 Clear Job                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
    2.10.2.3 Document General Support
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
             Job
    2.10.2.4 Document Historical
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
             Records
    2.10.2.5 Perform Job Inquiry                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
    2.10.2.6 Perform After the Fact
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
             Reporting
    2.10.2.7 Order parts through IMDS                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -


                                                                      27
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC


    2.10.3 G0 81 Maintenance
          System/Standard Base Supply
          System (SBSS)
    2.10.3.1 Create/Schedule Job                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -

    2.10.3.2 Clear Job                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
    2.10.3.3 Document Unscheduled
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
             Maintenance Job
    2.10.3.4 Document General Support
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
             Job
    2.10.3.5 Document Historical
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
             Records
    2.10.3.6 Perform Job Inquiry                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
    2.10.3.7 Perform After the Fact
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
             Reporting
    2.10.3.8 Order Parts Through G0 81                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
    2.11 SUPPLY DISCIPLINE
      TR: AFI 23-111, AFMAN 23-110
          Vol 2
    2.11.1 Property accountability and
                                                                                                                           A        -        B       -       -
           responsibility
    2.11.2 Cost estimate and repair
           criteria                                                                                                        -        -        A       -      B
      TR: TOs 00-25-240
    2.11.3 Fuels management
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
      TR: AFIs 23-205 and 23-204
    2.11.4 Initiate actions for
      TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20-3
    2.11.4.1 Special requisitions                                                                                          -        -        b       -       -

    2.11.4.2 Issue slips                                                                                                   -        -        b       -       -

    2.11.4.3 Turn-in slips                                                                                                 -        -        b       -       -
    2.11.5 Determine equipment
           allowances
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       a
      TR: AFMAN 23-110 Volume 2
         (CD) and AFI 21-101
    2.11.6 Statement of Charges
      TR: AFMAN 23-110 Volume 2                                                                                            -        -        A       -       -
         (CD)
    2.11.7 Report of Survey
                                                                                                                           -        -        A       -       -
      TR: AFMAN 23-220




                                                                      28
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC


    2.12 TOOLS
      TR: TOs 32-1-2, 32-1-101, and
          32B14-3-101
    2.12.1 Use hand tools
                                                                                                                          2b        -        b       -       -
      TR: TOs 32-1-2, 32-1-101
    2.12.2 Use special tools
                                                                                                                           a        -        b       -       -
      TR: TOs 32-1-2, 32-1-101
    2.12.3 Use torquing devices
                                                                                                                          2b                 b
      TR: TO 00-20-14; 32B14-3-1-101
    2.12.4 Use test equipment
      TR: Applicable TOs and
          Commercial Manuals
    2.12.4.1 Oscilloscope                                                                                                  -        -        b     2b #      -

    2.12.4.2 Digital Tachometer                                                                                           2b        -        -       -       -

    2.12.4.3 Diagnostic Testers                                                                                            -        -        -       -       -

    2.12.4.4 Turbine Engine Analyzer                                                                                       -        -        -       -       -

    2.12.4.5 Multimeter                                                                                                   2b        -        -       -       -
    2.12.5 Use shop equipment
      TR: TO 34-1-3 and applicable                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
          AFOSH standards
    2.12.6 Tool Control Procedures
      TR: AFI 21-101, MAJCOM                                                                                               B        -        -       -       -
          instructions
    2.13 HARDWARE
      TR: TO 1-1A-15
    2.13.1 Use safety wire                                                                                                2b        -        -       -       -

    2.13.2 Use mechanical fasteners                                                                                       2b        -        b       -       -
    2.13.3 Use hydraulic and pneumatic
      TR: TOs 00-25-223, 1-1A-15, and
          42E1-1-1
    2.13.3.1 Fittings                                                                                                      a        -        b       -       -

    2.13.3.2 Tubing                                                                                                        a        -        b       -       -

    2.13.3.3 Hoses                                                                                                         a        -        b       -       -

    2.14 GENERAL TASKS
    2.14.1 Apply corrosion control
           procedures                                                                                                      b        -        b       -       -
      TR: TO 35-1-3


                                                                      29
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC


    2.14.2 Mark equipment
                                                                                                                           b        -        b       -       -
      TR: TO 35-1-3
    2.14.3 Apply soldering techniques
                                                                                                                          2b        -        b       -       -
      TR: TOs 00-25-234 and 1-1A-15
    2.14.4 Use solderless connectors
                                                                                                                          2b        -        b       -       -
      TR: TO 1-1A-15
    2.14.5 Apply FOD prevention
            practices                                                                                                     2b        -        b       -       -
      TR: AFI 21-101
    2.14.6 Repair power cables
                                                                                                                          2b        -        -       -       -
      TR: TO 1-1A-15
    2.14.7 Repair wiring harnesses
                                                                                                                          2b        -        b       -       -
      TR: TO 1-1A-15
    2.14.8 Starting/charging system
            maintenance
      TR: TO 1-1A-15
    2.14.8.1 Perform on-equip battery
                                                                                                                          2b        -        b       -       -
              charging
    2.14.8.2 Perform system check                *                                                                        2b        -        b       -       -
    2.14.8.3 Perform battery condition
                                                 *                                                                        2b        -        b       -       -
              check
    2.14.9 Prepare equipment for
            use/storage/shipment
      TR: TOs 1-1A-15, 34Y9 series,                                                                                        -        -        b       -       -
           35-1-4, and other applicable
           TOs
    2.14.10 Prepare equipment for
             mobility
                                                 *                                                                         -        -        b       -       -
      TR: TOs 35-1-4 and AFMAN
           24-204 (I)
    2.14.11 Perform wheel and tire
             maintenance
      TR: TOs 1-1A-15, 34Y9 series,              *                                                                        2b        -        b       -       -
          35-1-3, and other applicable
          TOs
    2.14.12 Brake Systems
      TR: End item applicable TOs
    2.14.12.1 Bleed hydraulic                                                                                             2b        -        -       -       -

    2.14.12.2 Adjust mechanical                                                                                           1a        -        -       -       -
    2.14.13 Clean, inspect, and lubricate
            wheel bearings
                                                 *                                                                        2b        -        -       -       -
      TR: TO 1-1A-15 and other
          applicable TOs



                                                                      30
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC


    2.14.14 Maintenance of bleed air
            hose assemblies
      TR: TO 1-1A-15
    2.14.14.1 Inspect                                                                                                     2b        -        -       -       -

    2.14.14.2 Repair                                                                                                       b        -        -       -       -

    2.14.14.3 Test                                                                                                         b        -        -       -       -
    2.15 TOWING VEHICLES
      TR: AFIs 13-213 and 91-207,
          AFJMAN 24-306, and other
          applicable TOs
    2.15.1 Operate                                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -

    2.15.2 Clean                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
    2.15.3 Perform operator
           inspection/Document vehicle                                                                                    2b        -        -       -       -
           forms
    2.15.4 Service                                                                                                         b        -        -       -       -
    2.15.5 Position equipment on the
                                                                                                                           b        -        b       -       -
           flight line
    2.15.6 Follow pintle hook procedures                                                                                  2b        -        -       -       -
    2.15.7 Chemical warfare defense
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
           qualified
    2.15.8 Operate two way radios                                                                                          b        -        -       -       -

    2.16 ENGINES
    2.16.1 Gasoline Engines
      TR: TO 38G2 series and other
          applicable TOs
    2.16.1.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.16.1.2 Inspect                                                                                                       -        -        -       -       -

    2.16.1.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.16.1.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.16.1.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.16.2 Diesel Engines
      TR: TO 38G1series and other
          applicable TOs


                                                                      31
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.16.2.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B        -        B       -       -

    2.16.2.2 Inspect                                                                                                      2b        -        b       -       -

    2.16.2.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    2b        -        b       -       -

    2.16.2.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 1a        -        b       -       -

    2.16.2.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         2b        -        b       -       -
    2.16.3 Gas Turbine Engines
      TR: TO 2G-GTCP85 and other
          applicable TOs
    2.16.3.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B        -        B       -       -

    2.16.3.2 Inspect                                                                                                      2b        -        b       -       -

    2.16.3.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    2b        -        b       -       -

    2.16.3.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        b       -       -

    2.16.3.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         2b        -        b       -       -
    2.17 ELECTRICAL
          SYSTEMS/UNITS
    2.17.1 Electrical Fundamentals
           Applicable to AFSC 2A6X2
      TR: TO 31-1-141 series
    2.17.1.1 Electrical theory                                                                                             A        -        B       -      B

    2.17.1.2 Resistive circuits                                                                                            A        -        B       -      B

    2.17.1.3 Capacitors                                                                                                    A        -        B      B       B

    2.17.1.4 Inductors                                                                                                     A        -        B       -      B

    2.17.1.5 Transformers                                                                                                  A        -        B       -      B
    2.17.2 Electronic Fundamentals
           Applicable to AFSC 2A6X2
      TR: TO 31-1-141 series
    2.17.2.1 Semiconductor theory                                                                                          A        -        B      B       B

    2.17.2.2 Junction diodes                                                                                               A        -        B      B       B

    2.17.2.3 Silicon controlled rectifiers                                                                                 A        -        B      B       B

    2.17.2.4 Bipolar junction transistors                                                                                  -        -        -      B       B


                                                                      32
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.17.2.5 Transistor amplifiers                                                                                         -        -        -      B       B

    2.17.2.6 Unijunction transistors                                                                                       -        -        -       -      B

    2.17.2.7 Voltage regulators                                                                                            B        -        B       -      B
    2.17.2.8 Metal oxide varistors
                                                                                                                           -        -        -      B       -B
             (MOV)
    2.17.3 Electric Motors and Controls
      TR: TOs 34Y19-1-1, 34Y19-1-102,
          and 31-1-141 series
    2.17.3.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B        -        B       -       -

    2.17.3.2 Inspect                                                                                                      2b        -        b       -       -

    2.17.3.3 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 1a        -        b       -       -

    2.17.3.4 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          b        -        b       -       -
    2.17.4 Generator Fundamentals
      TR: TOs 34Y19-1-1, 34Y19-1-102,                                                                                      B        -        B       -       -
          and 31-1-141 series
    2.17.5 Generator Sets A/M32A-86
           Series
      TR: TO 35C2-3-469 series
    2.17.5.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B        -        B      C       B

    2.17.5.2 Perform inspections

    2.17.5.2.1 Service                           *                                                                        2b        -        b       -       -

    2.17.5.2.2 Periodic

    2.17.5.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.5.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.5.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.5.3 Perform operational check           *                                                                        2b        -        b       -       -

    2.17.5.4 Perform load test                   *                                                                        2b        -        b       -       -

    2.17.5.5 Troubleshoot                                  *                                                              1a        -        b      3c       b

    2.17.5.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          b        -        b       -       -
    2.17.5.7 Transformer rectifier
      TR: TO 35C2-3-477 series

                                                                      33
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.17.5.7.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                    A        -        -      C        -

    2.17.5.7.2 Perform operational check                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.5.7.3 Perform load test                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.5.7.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.5.7.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                        -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.6 B809 Series Generators
      TR: TO 35C2-3-510 series
    2.17.6.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      A        -        B       -      B

    2.17.6.2 Perform inspections

    2.17.6.2.1 Service                           *                                                                         -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.6.2.2 Periodic

    2.17.6.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.6.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.6.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.6.3 Perform operational check           *                                                                         -        -        b       -       -

    2.17.6.4 Perform load test                   *                                                                         -        -        b       -       -

    2.17.6.5 Troubleshoot                                  *                                                               -        -        b       -       b

    2.17.6.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.7 Generator Sets A/M32A-60
           Series
      TR: TO 35C2-3-372 series
    2.17.7.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B        -        B     C#       B

    2.17.7.2 Perform inspections

    2.17.7.2.1 Service                           *                                                                        2b        -        b       -       -

    2.17.7.2.2 Periodic

    2.17.7.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.7.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 2b        -        -       -       -


                                                                      34
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.17.7.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.7.3 Perform operational check           *                                                                        2b        -        -       -       -

    2.17.7.4 Perform load test                   *                                                                        2b        -        -       -       -

    2.17.7.5 Troubleshoot                                  *                                                              1a        -        b     3c #      b

    2.17.7.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          b        -        b       -       -
    2.17.8 Frequency Converter EPU-4/E
      TR: TO 35C1 -2 series
    2.17.8.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.8.2 Inspect                                                                                                       -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.8.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.8.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.8.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.9 Frequency Converter EPU-5/E
      TR: TO 35C1-4 series
    2.17.9.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.9.2 Inspect                                                                                                       -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.9.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.9.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.9.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.10 Frequency Converter
            EPU-6/E
      TR: TO 35C1-4 series
    2.17.10.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        B     C#       B

    2.17.10.2 Inspect                                                                                                      -        -        b       -       b

    2.17.10.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        b      2b       b

    2.17.10.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        b     3c #      b

    2.17.10.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        b       -       b




                                                                      35
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC


    2.17.11 Frequency Converter Rapid
            Power
      TR: Commercial Manual
    2.17.11.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.11.2 Inspect                                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.11.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.11.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.11.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.12 External Power Converter
            (EPC)
      TR: TO 35C1-4-182-1
    2.17.12.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.12.2 Inspect                                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.12.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.12.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.12.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.13 Solid State Frequency
            Converter 50/100kW
      TR: _______________________
    2.17.13.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.13.2 Inspect                                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.13.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.13.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.13.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.14 Motor Generator MD-4
      TR: TO 35C2-2-31-61
    2.17.14.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.14.2 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              inspections
    2.17.14.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.14.4 Perform load test                                                                                            -        -        -       -       -


                                                                      36
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.17.14.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.14.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.15 Motor Generator MC-1A
      TR: TO 35C2-2-31-61
    2.17.15.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.15.2 Perform periodic
              inspections
    2.17.15.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.15.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.15.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.15.4 Perform load test                                                                                            -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.15.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.15.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.16 MEP 800 Series Generator
      TR: TO 35C2 series
    2.17.16.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.16.2 Perform inspections

    2.17.16.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.16.2.2 Periodic

    2.17.16.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.16.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.16.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.16.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.16.4 Perform load test                                                                                            -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.16.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.16.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.17 Generator Set, A/M32A-103
      TR: TO 35C2 series



                                                                      37
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.17.17.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.17.2 Perform inspections

    2.17.17.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.17.2.2 Periodic

    2.17.17.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.17.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.17.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.17.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.17.4 Perform load test                                                                                            -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.17.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.17.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.18 Floodlight Set NF-2D
      TR: TO 35F5-5-11-61
    2.17.18.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.18.2 Perform inspections

    2.17.18.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.18.2.2 Periodic

    2.17.18.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.18.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.18.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.18.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.18.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.18.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.19 Floodlight Set FL-1D
      TR: TO 35F5-5-20-1
    2.17.19.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     B        -        B       -       -

    2.17.19.2 Perform inspections

                                                                      38
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.17.19.2.1 Service                          *                                                                        2b        -        -       -       -

    2.17.19.2.2 Periodic

    2.17.19.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.19.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.19.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.19.3 Perform operational check          *                                                                        2b        -        b       -       -

    2.17.19.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                1a        -        b       -       -

    2.17.19.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         b        -        -       -       -
    2.17.20 Floodlight Set A/M24U-2
      TR: TO 35F5-5-21-12
    2.17.20.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.20.2 Perform inspections

    2.17.20.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.20.2.2 Periodic

    2.17.20.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.20.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.20.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.20.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.20.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.20.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.21 Portable Load Banks
            (AC)(Suit Case)
      TR: TO 33DA22 series
    2.17.21.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     B        -        B       -       -
    2.17.21.2 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              inspection
    2.17.21.3 Perform operational check                                                                                   2b        -        -       -       -

    2.17.21.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -


                                                                      39
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.17.21.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.22 Portable Load Banks
            (DC)(Suit Case)
      TR: TO 33DA22 series
    2.17.22.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.22.2 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              inspection
    2.17.22.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.22.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.22.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.23 Electric Test Sets/Load
            Banks A/M24T-16
      TR: TO 33AA7 series
    2.17.23.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     A        -        -       -       -
    2.17.23.2 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              inspection
    2.17.23.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.23.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.17.23.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.17.24 Electric Test Sets/Load
            Banks A/M24T-8
      TR: TO 33AA7 series
    2.17.24.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     B        -        B     B#       B
    2.17.24.2 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              inspection
    2.17.24.3 Perform operational check          *                                                                        2b        -        b     2b #      -

    2.17.24.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        b       -       b

    2.17.24.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.18 PNEUMATIC UNITS
       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                            -        -        B       -       -
      TR: TO 34Y1 series
    2.18.1 Air Compressor MC-1A
      TR: TO 34Y1-56 series
    2.18.1.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -



                                                                      40
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.18.1.2 Perform inspections

    2.18.1.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.1.2.2 Periodic

    2.18.1.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.1.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.1.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.1.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.1.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.1.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.18.2 Air Compressor 7MC-2A
           Series
      TR: TO 34Y1-87 series
    2.18.2.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B        -        -       -       -

    2.18.2.2 Perform inspections

    2.18.2.2.1 Service                           *                                                                         -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.2.2.2 Periodic

    2.18.2.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.2.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.2.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.2.3 Perform operational check           *                                                                        1a        -        -       -       -

    2.18.2.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.2.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.18.3 Air Compressor MC-2A
           Series
      TR: TO 34Y1 series
    2.18.3.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.3.2 Perform inspections



                                                                      41
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.18.3.2.1 Service                           *                                                                         -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.3.2.2 Periodic

    2.18.3.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.3.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.3.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.3.3 Perform operational check           *                                                                         -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.3.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.3.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.18.4 Air Compressor MC-5
    TR: 34Y1-184-21, 34Y1-262-1
    2.18.4.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.4.2 Perform inspections

    2.18.4.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.4.2.2 Periodic

    2.18.4.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.4.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.4.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.4.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.4.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.4.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.18.5 Air Compressor MC-7 Series
      TR: TO 34Y1-134 series
    2.18.5.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B        -        -       -       -

    2.18.5.2 Perform inspections

    2.18.5.2.1 Service                                                                                                   2b/b       -        -       -       -

    2.18.5.2.2 Periodic

    2.18.5.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

                                                                      42
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.18.5.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.5.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.5.3 Perform operational check                                                                                   2b/b       -        -       -       -

    2.18.5.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.5.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.18.6 Air Compressor MC-6 Series
      TR: TO 34Y1 series
    2.18.6.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.6.2 Perform inspections

    2.18.6.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.6.2.2 Periodic

    2.18.6.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.6.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.6.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.6.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.6.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.6.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.18.7 Air Compressor LP-90 Series
      TR: TO 34Y1 series
    2.18.7.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.7.2 Perform inspections

    2.18.7.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.7.2.2 Periodic

    2.18.7.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.7.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.7.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.7.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

                                                                      43
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.18.7.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.7.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.18.8 MC-20 Air Compressor
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
    TR: 34Y1-274-1
    2.18.8.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.8.2 Perform inspections

    2.18.8.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.8.2.2 Periodic

    2.18.8.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.8.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.8.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.8.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.8.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.8.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.18.9 Air Compressors MB-8 Series
      TR: TO 34Y1-87 series
    2.18.9.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.9.2 Perform inspections

    2.18.9.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.9.2.2 Periodic

    2.18.9.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.9.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.9.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.9.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.9.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.9.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -




                                                                      44
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC


    2.18.10 4MB-1 Electric Hi-Pac
      TR: TO 34Y1-91-21
    2.18.10.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.10.2 Perform inspections

    2.18.10.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.10.2.2 Periodic

    2.18.10.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.10.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.10.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.10.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.10.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.10.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.18.11 Stored Energy System
            Servicing Cart (SESSC)
      TR: TO 35D3-6-51-1
    2.18.11.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.11.2 Perform inspections

    2.18.11.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.11.2.2 Periodic

    2.18.11.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.11.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.11.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.11.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.11.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.11.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.18.12 Gas Turbine Compressor
            A/M32A-95
      TR: TO 35D12-2-14



                                                                      45
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.18.12.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -      B

    2.18.12.2 Perform inspections

    2.18.12.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.12.2.2 Periodic

    2.18.12.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.12.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.12.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.12.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       b

    2.18.12.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       b

    2.18.12.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.18.13 Cabin Leakage Tester
            AF/M32T-1
      TR: TOs 33D2 series and
          33A4-4-20 series
    2.18.13.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        B       -       -

    2.18.13.2 Perform inspections

    2.18.13.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.13.2.2 Periodic

    2.18.13.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.13.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.13.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.13.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        b       -       -

    2.18.13.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        b       -       -

    2.18.13.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.18.14 Cabin Leakage Tester
            AF/M24T-3
      TR: TOs 33D3-31-11 and
          33A4-4-23 series



                                                                      46
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.18.14.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.14.2 Perform inspections

    2.18.14.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.14.2.2 Periodic

    2.18.14.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.14.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.14.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.14.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.14.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.14.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.18.15 Self Generating Nitrogen
            Servicing Cart
      TR: TO 35D29 series
    2.18.15.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     B        -        B      C       B

    2.18.15.2 Perform inspections

    2.18.15.2.1 Service                          *                                                                        2b        -        b       -       -

    2.18.15.2.2 Periodic

    2.18.15.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.15.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.15.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.15.3 Perform operational check          *                                                                        2b        -        b      2b       -

    2.18.15.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -      2b       -

    2.18.15.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.18.16 High-Pressure Self
         Generating Nitrogen Servicing
         Cart
      TR: TO 35D29 series
    2.18.16.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -


                                                                      47
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.18.16.2 Perform inspections

    2.18.16.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.16.2.2 Periodic

    2.18.16.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.16.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.16.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.16.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.16.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.18.16.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.19 CONDITIONED AIR
         SYSTEMS/UNITS
      TR: Commercial Manuals
    2.19.1 Refrigeration fundamentals                                                                                      B        -        B       -       -
    2.19.2 Refrigeration system
                                                                                                                           B        -        -       -       -
           operation
    2.19.3 Refrigeration maintenance                                                                                       B        -        -       -       -
    2.19.4 Air Conditioners A/M32C-5
           Series
      TR: TO 35E9 series
    2.19.4.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B        -        -       -       -

    2.19.4.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.4.2.1 Service                                                                                                    2b        -        -       -       -

    2.19.4.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.4.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.4.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.4.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.4.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    2b        -        -       -       -

    2.19.4.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 1a        -        -       -       -



                                                                      48
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.19.4.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          b        -        -       -       -

    2.19.4.6 Perform refrigerant recovery                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -
    2.19.5 Air Conditioners MA3D
           Series
      TR: TO 35E9-11-71 series
    2.19.5.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        B      C       B

    2.19.5.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.5.2.1 Service                           *                                                                         -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.5.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.5.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.5.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.5.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.5.3 Perform operational check           *                                                                         -        -        b       -       -

    2.19.5.4 Troubleshoot                                  *                                                               -        -        b      2b       b

    2.19.5.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        b       -       -

    2.19.5.6 Perform refrigerant recovery                                                                                  -        -        b       -       -
    2.19.6 Air Conditioners ACE 802S
           Series
      TR: TO 35E9-298 series
    2.19.6.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        B       -

    2.19.6.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.6.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.6.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.6.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.6.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.6.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.6.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        b       -



                                                                      49
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.19.6.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        b       -

    2.19.6.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.6.6 Perform refrigerant recovery                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -
    2.19.7 Air Cycle Machine
           A/M32C-10 Series
      TR: TO 35E9-90 series
    2.19.7.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B        -        B       -       -

    2.19.7.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.7.2.1 Service                                                                                                   2b/b       -        -       -       -

    2.19.7.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.7.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.7.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.7.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.7.3 Perform operational check                                                                                   2b/b       -        -       -       -

    2.19.7.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.7.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.19.8 Air Conditioners PD 501
      TR: TO 35E9-290 series
    2.19.8.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.8.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.8.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.8.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.8.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.8.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.8.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.8.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.8.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -


                                                                      50
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.19.8.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.8.6 Perform refrigerant recovery                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -
    2.19.9 Air Conditioners DAC-110
      TR: TO 35E9-300-2
    2.19.9.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.9.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.9.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.9.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.9.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.9.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.9.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.9.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.9.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.9.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.9.6 Perform refrigerant recovery                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -
    2.19.10 Air Conditioner TMAC
      TR: TO 35E9-323 Series
    2.19.10.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.10.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.10.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.10.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.10.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.10.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.10.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.10.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.10.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.10.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -

                                                                      51
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC


    2.19.10.6 Perform refrigerant
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              recovery
    2.19.11 FDECU Series
      TR: TO 35E9-314-1
    2.19.11.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.11.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.11.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.11.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.11.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.11.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.11.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.11.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.11.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.19.12 ACE LCS 814 Series
      TR: TO 35E10-34-1
    2.19.12.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.12.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.12.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.12.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.12.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.12.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.12.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.12.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.12.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.12.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.19.12.6 Perform refrigerant
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              recovery
    2.19.13 LCS (Liquid Coolant
             Servicing) Cart
      TR: TO 37A17 series

                                                                      52
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.19.13.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.13.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.13.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.13.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.13.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.13.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.13.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.13.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.13.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.13.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.19.13.6 Perform refrigerant
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              recovery
    2.19.14 EGW (Ethylene Glycol
            Water) Cart
      TR: TO 34Y5-3-77-1
    2.19.14.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.14.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.14.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.14.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.14.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.14.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.14.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.14.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.14.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.14.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.19.14.6 Perform refrigerant
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              recovery




                                                                      53
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC


    2.19.15 PAO (Poly Alpha Olefin)
            Coolant Cart (diesel)
      TR: TO 35E10-36-1
    2.19.15.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.15.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.15.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.15.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.15.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.15.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.15.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.15.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.15.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.15.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.19.15.6 Perform refrigerant
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              recovery
    2.19.16 PAO (Poly Alpha Olefin)
             Coolant Cart (electric)
      TR: TO 35E10-35-1
    2.19.16.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.16.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.16.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.16.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.16.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.16.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.16.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.16.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.16.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.16.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -



                                                                      54
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC


    2.19.17 Ground Heaters H-1 Series
      TR: TO 35E7-2 series
    2.19.17.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.17.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.17.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.17.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.17.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.17.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.17.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.17.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.17.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.17.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.19.17.6 Perform carbon monoxide
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              test
    2.19.18 Ground Heater NGH
      TR: TO 35E7-2-11-21
    2.19.18.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     B        -        B       -       -

    2.19. 18.2 Perform inspections

    2.19. 18.2.1 Service                         *                                                                        2b        -        -       -       -

    2.19. 18.2.2 Periodic

    2.19. 18.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19. 18.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                -        -        -       -       -

    2.19. 18.2.3 Special                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.19. 18.3 Perform operational check         *                                                                        2b        -        b       -       -

    2.19. 18.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                               1a        -       -b       -

    2.19. 18.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                        -        -        -       -       -
    2.19. 18.6 Perform carbon monoxide
                                                 *                                                                        2b        -        -       -       -
               test



                                                                      55
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.19. 18.7 Perform smoke test                *                                                                        2b        -        -       -       -
    2.19.19 Ground Heater HDU-43
    TR: 35E7-2-3-21
    2.19.19.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.19.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.19.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.19.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.19.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.19.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.19.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.19.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.19.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.19.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.19.20 Ground Heaters HDU13/M
      TR: TO 35E7-6-9 series
    2.19.20.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.20.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.20.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.20.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.20.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.20.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.20.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.20.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.20.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.20.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.19.21 Blowers
      TR: TO 35E11 series



                                                                      56
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.19.21.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.21.2 Perform inspections

    2.19.21.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.21.2.2 Periodic

    2.19.21.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.21.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.21.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.21.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.19.21.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.20 HYDRAULIC
       SYSTEMS/UNITS
      TR: Army FM5-499
    2.20.1 Hydraulic fundamentals                                                                                          B        -        -       -       -

    2.20.2 Hydraulics system operation                                                                                     B        -        -       -       -

    2.20.3 Perform purification                                                                                            -        -        -       -       -
    2.20.4 Hydraulic Test Stands
           A/M27T-2 Series
      TR: TO 35D2-5 series
    2.20.4.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B        -        -       -       -

    2.20.4.2 Perform inspections

    2.20.4.2.1 Service                                                                                                    2b        -        -       -       -

    2.20.4.2.2 Periodic

    2.20.4.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.4.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.4.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.4.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    2b        -        -       -       -

    2.20.4.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 1a        -        -       -       -



                                                                      57
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.20.4.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          b        -        -       -       -
    2.20.5 Hydraulic Test Stands MK-1
           Series
      TR: TO 33A2-2 series
    2.20.5.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.5.2 Perform inspections

    2.20.5.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.5.2.2 Periodic

    2.20.5.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.5.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.5.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.5.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.5.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.5.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.20.6 Hydraulic Test Stands MK-3
           Series
      TR: TO 33A2-2 series
    2.20.6.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.6.2 Perform inspections

    2.20.6.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.6.2.2 Periodic

    2.20.6.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.6.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.6.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.6.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.6.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.6.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -



                                                                      58
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC


    2.20.7 Hydraulic Test Stands MJ-1
           Series
      TR: TO 33A2-2 series
    2.20.7.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.7.2 Perform inspections

    2.20.7.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.7.2.2 Periodic

    2.20.7.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.7.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.7.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.7.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.7.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.7.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.20.8 Hydraulic Test Stands MJ-2
           Series
      TR: TO 33A2-2 series
    2.20.8.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        B       -       -

    2.20.8.2 Perform inspections

    2.20.8.2.1 Service                           *                                                                         -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.8.2.2 Periodic

    2.20.8.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.8.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.8.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.8.3 Perform operational check           *                                                                         -        -        b       -       -

    2.20.8.4 Troubleshoot                                  *                                                               -        -        b       -       -

    2.20.8.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.20.9 Hydraulic Test Stands
           TTU-228 Series
      TR: TO 33D2-5-36 series


                                                                      59
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.20.9.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.9.2 Perform inspections

    2.20.9.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.9.2.2 Periodic

    2.20.9.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.9.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.9.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.9.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.9.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.9.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.20.10 Universal Hydraulic Test
            Stand (diesel) A/M27T-17
    TR: 33A2-111 Series
    2.20.10.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.10.2 Perform inspections

    2.20.10.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.10.2.2 Periodic

    2.20.10.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.10.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.10.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.10.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.10.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.10.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.20.11 Hydraulic Test Stands
            (diesel) 87025-100 MOD
      TR: TO 33A2-76-1
    2.20.11.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -



                                                                      60
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.20.11.2 Perform inspections

    2.20.11.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.11.2.2 Periodic

    2.20.11.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.11.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.11.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.11.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.11.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.11.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.20.12 Universal Hydraulic Test
            Stand (electric) A/M27T-16
    TR: 33A2-110 Series
    2.20.12.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.12.2 Perform inspections

    2.20.12.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.12.2.2 Periodic

    2.20.12.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.12.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.12.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.12.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.12.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.12.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.20.13 Hydraulic Test Stands
            (electric) 90229-100
      TR: TO 33A2-2-75-1
    2.20.13.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.13.2 Perform inspections



                                                                      61
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.20.13.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.13.2.2 Periodic

    2.20.13.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.13.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.13.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.13.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.13.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.13.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.20.14 Hydraulic Pumping Units
            (Jacking Manifold)
      TR: TO 35AA2-3, 34Y5 series, and
          35A2-4 series
    2.20.14.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.14.2 Perform inspections

    2.20.14.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.14.2.2 Periodic

    2.20.14.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.14.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.14.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.14.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.14.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.14.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.20.15 Hydro Mite Landing Gear
            Service Stand
    TR: TO 35D29-3-16-1
    2.20.15.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.15.2 Perform inspections

    2.20.15.2.1 Service                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -


                                                                      62
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.20.15.2.2 Periodic

    2.20.15.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.15.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.15.2.3 Special                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.15.3 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.15.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.20.15.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.21 MUNITIONS LOADING
          SYSTEMS/UNITS
    2.21.1 Bomblifts MHU-83/174
           Series
      TR: TO 35D5-3-8 series
    2.21.1.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        B       -       -

    2.21.1.2 Perform inspections

    2.21.1.2.1 Service                           *                                                                         -        -        b       -       -

    2.21.1.2.2 Periodic

    2.21.1.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.1.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.1.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.1.3 Perform operational check           *                                                                         -        -        b       -       -

    2.21.1.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        b       -       -

    2.21.1.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.21.2 Bomblift MJ-1 Series
      TR: TO 35D3-2 series
    2.21.2.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B        -        B       -       -

    2.21.2.2 Perform inspections

    2.21.2.2.1 Service                           *                                                                        2b        -        b       -       -

    2.21.2.2.2 Periodic


                                                                      63
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.21.2.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.2.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.2.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.2.3 Perform operational check           *                                                                        2b        -        b       -       -

    2.21.2.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 1a        -        b       -       -

    2.21.2.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         2b        -        -       -       -
    2.21.3 Bomblift MJ-40 Series
      TR: TO 35D3-9-21 series
    2.21.3.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.3.2 Perform inspections

    2.21.3.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.3.2.2 Periodic

    2.21.3.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.3.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.3.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.3.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.3.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.3.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.21.4 Munitions Loading Trailers
           Powered (Electric)
           MHU-196/M
      TR: TO 11N-H series
    2.21.4.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.4.2 Perform inspections

    2.21.4.2.1 Monthly                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.4.2.2 Periodic

    2.21.4.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -



                                                                      64
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.21.4.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.4.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.4.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.4.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.21.4.6 Mate and de-mate functional
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
             test load fixture (FTLF)
    2.21.4.7 Perform towing procedure
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
             with/without FTLF
    2.21.5 Munitions Loading Trailers
           Powered (Electric)
            MHU-204/M
      TR: TO 11N-H series
    2.21.5.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.5.2 Perform inspections

    2.21.5.2.1 Monthly                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.5.2.2 Periodic

    2.21.5.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.5.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.5.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.5.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.21.5.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.21.5.6 Mate and de-mate functional
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              test load fixture (FTLF)
    2.21.5.7 Perform towing procedure
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              with/without FTLF
    2.22 POWERED MAINTENANCE
          STANDS
    2.22.1 Maintenance Stands Universal
            (Split Deck Diesel)
      TR: TO 35A4 series
    2.22.1.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        B       -       -

    2.22.1.2 Perform inspections

    2.22.1.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -


                                                                      65
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.22.1.2.2 Periodic

    2.22.1.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.1.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.1.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.1.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        b       -       -

    2.22.1.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        b       -       -

    2.22.1.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.22.2 Maintenance Stand Universal
           A/S48M
    TR: 35A4-2-58-1
    2.22.2.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.2.2 Perform inspections

    2.22.2.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.2.2.2 Periodic

    2.22.2.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.2.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.2.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.2.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.2.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.2.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.3 Maintenance Stands Universal
           (Split Deck Electric)
      TR: TO 35A4 series

    2.22.3.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.3.2 Perform inspections

    2.22.3.2.1 Service                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.3.2.2 Periodic



                                                                      66
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.22.3.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.3.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.3.2.3 Special                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.3.3 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.3.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.22.3.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.23 CORROSION CONTROL
         SPRAY CART
      TR: TO 35D3-41 series
    2.23.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                        -        -        -       -       -

    2.23.2 Perform inspections

    2.23.2.1 Service                                                                                                       -        -        -       -       -

    2.23.2.2 Periodic

    2.23.2.2.1 Phase I                                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.23.2.2.2 Phase II                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.23.2.3 Special                                                                                                       -        -        -       -       -

    2.23.3 Perform operational check                                                                                       -        -        -       -       -

    2.23.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.23.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                            -        -        -       -       -

    2.24 NON-POWERED AGE
    2.24.1 Aircraft Axle Jacks
      TR: TO 35A2 series
    2.24.1.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      A        -        -       -       -

    2.24.1.2 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.1.3 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.1.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.1.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -


                                                                      67
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.24.1.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.1.7 Perform weight check/test                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.2 Tri-pod Aircraft Jacks
      TR: TO 35A2 series
    2.24.2.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      A        -        B       -       -

    2.24.2.2 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.2.3 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.2.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.2.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.2.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.2.7 Perform weight check/test                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.3 Universal Jack Tester
      TR: TO 33AA14-2-1
    2.24.3.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      A        -        B       -       -

    2.24.3.2 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.3.3 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.3.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.3.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.3.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.4 Portable Jack Tester
      TR: TO 35A4-2-56-1
    2.24.4.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.4.2 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.4.3 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.4.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.4.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.4.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -



                                                                      68
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC


    2.24.5 Aircraft Towbars
      TR: TO 35B5 series
    2.24.5.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      A        -        -       -       -

    2.24.5.2 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.5.3 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.5.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.5.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.5.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.6 Aircraft Towbars (MD-1)
      TR: TO 35B5 series
    2.24.6.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        B       -       -

    2.24.6.2 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.6.3 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.6.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.6.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.6.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.7 Aircraft Towbars (C-135)
      TR: TO 35B5 series
    2.24.7.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.7.2 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.7.3 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.7.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.7.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.7.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.8 Aircraft Towbars (B-52)
      TR: TO 35B5 series
    2.24.8.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.8.2 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -



                                                                      69
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.24.8.3 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.8.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.8.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.8.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.9 Aircraft Towbars (C-5)
      TR: TO 35B5 series
    2.24.9.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.9.2 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.9.3 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.9.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.9.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.9.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.24. 10 Aircraft Towbars (C-17)
      TR: TO 35B5 series
    2.24.10.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.10.2 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.10.3 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              inspection
    2.24.10.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.10.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.10.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.11 Oil Dispensing Carts
      TR: TO 37A12 and 37A17 series
    2.24.11.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     A        -        B       -       -

    2.24.11.2 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.11.3 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              inspection
    2.24.11.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.11.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -



                                                                      70
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC


    2.24.12 Hydraulic Dispensing Carts
      TR: TO 35D3 series
    2.24.12.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     A        -        B       -       -

    2.24.12.2 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.12.3 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              inspection
    2.24.12.5 Perform special inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.12.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.12.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.13 Dollies
      TR: TO 35D3 series
    2.24.13.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.13.2 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.13.3 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              inspection
    2.24.13.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.13.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.13.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.14 Disabled Wheel Dolly
      TR: TO 35D3 series
    2.24.14.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.14.2 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.14.3 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              inspection
    2.24.14.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.14.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.14.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.15 Stores Loader
      TR: TO 35D30 series
    2.24.15.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.15.2 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -



                                                                      71
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                        SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                           CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                   2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                           Provided
                                                     A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
    1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                             Level
                                                   5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                       Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC


        2.24.15.3 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                               -        -        -       -       -
                  inspection
        2.24.15.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

        2.24.15.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

        2.24.15.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
        2.24.16 Fuel Tank Dolly
          TR: TO 35D30 series
        2.24.16.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

        2.24.16.2 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
        2.24.16.3 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                               -        -        -       -       -
                  inspection
        2.24.16.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

        2.24.16.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

        2.24.16.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
        2.24.17 Dolly, Tire
          TR: TO 35D30 series
        2.24.17.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

        2.24.17.2 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
        2.24.17.3 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                               -        -        -       -       -
                  inspections
-
        2.24.17.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

        2.24.17.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

        2.24.17.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
        2.24.18 Hoists and Cranes
          TR: TO 35D series and AFOSH
              Standards 91-46 & 91-501
        2.24.18.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

        2.24.18.2 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
        2.24.18.3 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                               -        -        -       -       -
                  inspection
        2.24.18.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

        2.24.18.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -


                                                                          72
                                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.24.18.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.18.7 Perform weight check/test                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.19 Crane, 1500 lbs
      TR: TOs 35DA3, 36C3, and 36M1
           series
    2.24.19.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.19.2 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.19.3 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              inspection
    2.24.19.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.19.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.19.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.19.7 Perform weight check/test                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.20 Crane, 6000 lbs
      TR: TO 36C3 series
    2.24.20.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.20.2 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.20.3 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              inspection
    2.24.20.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.20.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.20.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.20.7 Perform weight check/test                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.21 Fuel Bowsers
      TR: TO 36A11 series
    2.24.21.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.21.2 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.21.3 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              inspection
    2.24.21.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.21.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -


                                                                      73
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.24.21.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.22 Gaseous Generating and
             Liquid Dispensing Carts
             (Chassis Only)
      TR: TOs 35D29, 35D3, and 37C2
           series
    2.24.22.1 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                           -        -        b       -       -
               inspection
    2.24.22.2 Perform special inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.22.3 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.23 Trailers
      TR: TO 35D3 and 36A11 series
    2.24.23.1 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.23.2 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              inspection
    2.24.23.3 Perform special inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.23.4 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.24 Mechanical RAM Assembly
      TR: TO 35D3 series
    2.24.24.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.24.2 Perform operational check                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -
    2.24.24.3 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                           -        -        -       -       -
              inspection
    2.24.24.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.24.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -        -        -       -       -

    2.24.24.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                         -        -        -       -       -
    2.25 NON-POWERED
          MAINTENANCE STANDS
    2.25.1 Maintenance stands
      TR: TO 35A4 and TO 35D4 series
    2.25.1.1 Operational Fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.1.2 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.1.3 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.1.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

                                                                      74
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.25.1.5 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.25.2 B-1 Maintenance Stand
      TR: TO 35A4-2-3-51
    2.25.2.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B        -        B       -       -

    2.25.2.2 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.2.3 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.2.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.2.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.2.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.25.3 B-2 Maintenance Stand
      TR: TOs 35A4-2-3-11
    2.25.3.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B        -        -       -       -

    2.25.3.2 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.3.3 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.3.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.3.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.3.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.25.4 B4-A Maintenance Stand
      TR: TO 35A4-2-5-1
    2.25.4.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B        -        B       -       -

    2.25.4.2 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.4.3 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.4.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.4.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.4.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.25.5 B-5A Maintenance Stand
      TR: TO 35A4-2-6-1
    2.25.5.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      B        -        -       -       -



                                                                      75
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                    SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                       CFETP 2A6X2, 01 January 2012

                                                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               2. Core Tasks               3. Certification For OJT                         Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                 A         B        A         B          C          D           E          A           B             C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                             3 Skill 5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng        Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course   Course    CDC    Course   CDC



    2.25.5.2 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.5.3 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.5.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.5.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.5.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.25.6 B7-16 / B1-B Maintenance
           Stand
      TR: TO 35Dseries
    2.25.6.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.6.2 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.6.3 Perform special inspection                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.6.4 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.6.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.6.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.25.7 Drag Chute Maintenance
           Stand
      TR: TOs 35A / 35D series
    2.25.7.1 Operational fundamentals                                                                                      -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.7.2 Perform operational check                                                                                     -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.7.3 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.7.4 Perform special inspection                                                                                    -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.7.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.7.6 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -
    2.25.8 C-1 Maintenance Stand
      TR: TO 35A4 series
    2.25.8.1 Perform periodic inspection                                                                                   -        -        -       -       -

    2.25.8.2 Correct malfunctions                                                                                          -        -        -       -       -




                                                                      76
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
