DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                             CFETP 21MX
Headquarters, United States Air Force                                                    Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                           3 January 2014



                                        AFSC 21MX
 MUNITIONS AND MISSILE MAINTENANCE OFFICER




  CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN


  ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at http://www.e-
                        publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

             RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
The Missile Badge Heraldry
The first distinctive missile badge was established May 23, 1958, to recognize those within the
Air Force who had a direct role in the development, maintenance or operation of guided
missiles. The badge was first called the Guided Missile Insignia and was authorized for those
who performed duty in or were associated with the Snark, Atlas, Goose, Thor, Jupiter, Matador,
Mace, Bomarc, Titan and Minuteman missile systems. In 1963, the name was changed to the
Missileman Badge and three levels of expertise were established: Basic, Senior, and Master
Missileman. The honor of wearing the badge went to those who completed specialized missile
training. In April 1979, the name of the Missileman Badge was once again changed, this time to
simply Missile Badge, deleting any reference to gender. In addition to the original missile
systems, the Missile Badge is now awarded to personnel in the Peacekeeper, Air Launched
Cruise Missile, Conventional Air Launched Cruise Missile and Advanced Cruise Missile weapon
systems. In 1988, with the approval of the “Missile Operations Designator,” a wreath
encircling the Missile Badge, the original Missile Badge became a badge awarded exclusively to
missile maintainers. In 2004, the Missile Badge was approved for wear by officers who had
graduated the Conventional Munitions Officer Course and supervised 2M/W personnel in the
maintenance, loading and unloading of guided missiles or missile systems for 12 months.
The original design of the Missile Badge was prepared by the United States Army Heraldic
Division at Arlington, Virginia. There are four significant elements of the badge. The use of the
generic missile is intentional so as to resemble no particular missile in the inventory. The badge
was given an hourglass shape to signify the timeliness of the weapon systems’ response
capabilities. The four stars, two on either side of the missile, represent the operational domain
of the missile systems, the total aerospace environment. Finally, two vertical bands beneath the
missile represent a residual vapor trail left by a missile in flight.



Air Force Maintenance Badge Heraldry
The design of the falcon is a replica of the maintenance falcon located in the National Cathedral
at Washington DC. The falcon symbolizes the airborne strength by the Air Force and made
possible by the maintenance of aircraft, munitions, and communications-electronics equipment.
In its talons, the falcon is holding a bomb and a generic 21st century aircraft. They are crossed
to show the interrelationship of the career fields. The three levels of the award are signified by
the addition of a star centered above the falcon for the senior level and the star surrounded by
an olive wreath for the master level.

The aircraft, streamlined to depict a 21st century aircraft, is symbolic of all aircraft maintained
by the personnel who will wear the badge into the 21st century. The aircraft has three leading
edges, which represent the three enlisted maintenance specialties: aircraft, munitions, and
communications-electronics. The personnel, like the leading edges of the aircraft, work together
to support the flying mission. The bomb, streamlined to depict a modern munition, symbolizes
the primary mission of the Air Force maintainer to make sure they put the bombs on target. The
field is without obstruction and depicts a free sky and the olive wreath surrounding the badge,
symbolizes the peace, which we defend through professional maintenance.

                                                ii
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                     CFETP 21MX
Headquarters, United States Air Force                            Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                   3 January 2014

                                        TABLE OF CONTENTS

 Preface

 Abbreviations/Terms Explained


 PART I
 Section A, General Information
     Purpose of the CFETP
     CFETP Uses
     Coordination and Approval

 Section B, Career Field Progression and Information
     Purpose
     Specialty Description
     Skill and Career Progression
          Duties and Responsibilities
          Specialty Qualifications
     Skill and Career Progression
          Entry Level
          Intermediate Level
          Senior Certification
          Staff and Senior Level
          Master Certification
          Grandfather Plan
     U&TW Training Decisions
     21M Career Progression

 Section C, Proficiency Training Requirements
     Purpose
     21M1 and 21M3 Specialty Qualification Requirements
     21M4 Specialty Qualification Requirements



OPR: 363 TRS/TRR (Mr. Jason M. Durst), DSN 736-2996
Certified by: AF/A4LW, Col Geoffrey Bacon
Supersedes: CFETP 21MX, dated 28 May 2009
Pages: 60




                                                  iii
PART II
    Purpose

Section A, Course Training Standards
    Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level requirements
          Customer Feedback
          Records Documentation

Section B, Support Materials
     Purpose
     Munitions and Missile Maintenance Officer AFSC Awarding Courses
     Non-AFSC Awarding Courses
     Air Force In-Residence Courses
     Air Force Enlisted Career Development Courses (CDC)
     Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT)
    Field Training Detachment Courses (FTD)
    Extension Course Institute (ECI) Courses
    Exportable Courses
    Follow-on MAJCOM/Unit Courses
    Department of Defense Courses

Section C, Support Material
    Reference List
    Follow-on Unit Training
    Maintenance Officer Training Task List
          21M3X Core Requirements
          21M3A Requirements
          21M3N Requirements
          21M3I Requirements
          Senior Certification Requirements
          Master Certification Requirements

Section D, MAJCOM Unique Requirements

Tables
   Table 1. Munitions and Missile Maintenance Officer Special Experience Identifiers (SEIs)
   Table 2. Grandfather Plan
   Table 3. 21M Career Progression Chart

Attachments
    Attachment 1:   Training Completion Certification
    Attachment 2:   CTS Qualitative Requirements
    Attachment 3:   Munitions and Missile Maintenance Officer Fundamentals Course CTS
    Attachment 4:   ICBM Maintenance Officer Course CTS
    Attachment 5:   Conventional Munitions Officer Course CTS
    Attachment 6:   Nuclear Maintenance Officer Course CTS
    Attachment 7:   Nuclear Accountability Course CTS

                                                  iv
                                 AFSC 21MX I/N/A
                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

PREFACE

1. The June 2012 21M Utilization and Training Workshop drove significant and necessary changes to
the 21M career field. Three distinct mission areas, ICBM, nuclear, and conventional, have always been
recognized within the career field and the U&TW continued this concept and enhanced the courses to
further solidify the training in the three mission areas.

2. Force Development is designed to link training and education opportunities to assignment experiences,
connect individual goals to Air Force requirements, invest the right education and training experience at
the right time for the officer, and to enhance leadership and functional competencies to best utilize
individual officer throughout the development and assignment processes. Successful careers have a
common thread: a good combination of depth (significant expertise in a core area) and breadth
(experience across multiple missions that complement core knowledge and/or officer growth).

3. The Munitions and Missile Maintenance Officer Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP)
is the vehicle used to communicate force development guidance. This guidance facilitates the growth of
future munitions leaders and provides a “training roadmap” that identifies mandatory and optional skill-
level training.

4. The CFETP provides force development guidance that the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC)
assignment team uses to make informed decisions in support of an officer’s career progression. Upon
selection for Major, the Development Team adds rigor to the process and then provides career vectors
which AFPC utilizes to match officers to future assignments. The primary objective is to ensure that
officers remain competent in munitions and missile maintenance fundamentals and disciplines while
improving personal skills sets and expertise needed to successfully operate and lead across an expanding
maintenance spectrum.




                                                   1
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training. A formal course which provides officers who are already fully qualified in their
Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) with additional skills and knowledge to enhance their expertise in
the career field. Training is for career officers at the qualified and staff level of an AFSC.

AFCFM. Air Force Career Field Manager.

AFCOMAC. Air Force Combat Ammunition Center.

AFI. Air Force Instruction.

AFIT. Air Force Institute of Technology. AFIT offers Masters degrees in Logistics Management,
Acquisition Logistics, Supply Management, and Transportation Management. Ph.D. programs are
also available. AFIT School of Systems and Logistics (AFIT/LS) also provides professional continuing
education courses (PCE) such as: WLOG 199, 299, 399, and 499. Refer to Part II, Section B.

ALC. Air Logistics Complex.

ALEET. Acquisitions and Logistics Experience Exchange Tour.

AMMOC. Aircraft and Munitions Maintenance Officer Courses. Refers to the maintenance
officer schoolhouse at Sheppard AFB; encompasses AMOC, Accelerated AMOC, MOFC, CMOC,
NMOC and MOIC.

AMOC. Aircraft Maintenance Officer Course. Course taught by AETC to new Aircraft
Maintenance Officer accessions or cross flowing officers.

AMMOS. Advanced Maintenance and Munitions Officer Course. An advanced maintenance
officer course taught by Air Combat Command (ACC) to intermediate level Maintenance Officers.

AMWC. Air Mobility Warfare Center. An AMC organization set up to train, test, and educate our
forces in all aspects of air mobility.

APDP. Acquisition Professional Development Program. Established to ensure career development
within designated acquisition and logistics career fields.

ARC. Air Reserve Component. Combination of Air Force Reserve Command and Air National
Guard forces.

ART. Air Reserve Technician. Combination of civil servant and reservist.

BDE. Basic Developmental Education. Specific educational opportunities inside the AF to include
but not limited to Squadron Officer School.

CAF. Combat Air Forces.

CAPP. Combat Ammunition Planning and Production Course. Continuation Training. Follow-on
unit training.

CAS. Combat Ammunition System.


                                                 2
CFETP. Career Field Education and Training Plan. A comprehensive, multipurpose document
that encapsulates the entire spectrum of training for a career field or specialty. It outlines a logical
growth plan that includes training resources and makes career field training identifiable, eliminates
duplication, and is budget defensible.


CLS. Contractor Logistics Support.

CMOC. Conventional Munitions Maintenance Officer Course. Conventional munitions track
course taught by AETC for munitions maintenance officers; follow-on to MOFC. Also serves as a
bridge course to officers cross-training from another logistics discipline.

CNWDI. Critical Nuclear Weapons Design Information

Core Task. Tasks the AFCFM identify as minimum qualification requirements for everyone within an
Air Force specialty regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill level
or in general across the AFSC.

CRF. Component Repair Facility.

CTS. Course Training Standard. A specialized publication that identifies the training standard
required to achieve a skill level(s) within an AFSC. It standardizes and controls the quality of officer
training.

DA. Developmental Assignment.

DAU. Defense Acquisition University. Provides mandatory, assignment-specific, and continuing
education courses for military and civilian acquisition personnel within the Department of Defense.

DE. Developmental Education.

DOD. Department of Defense.

DIAMONDS. Defense Integration and Management of Nuclear Data Services

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer based training, paper text, interactive video
or courseware, and other necessary means to supplement training.

FEQ. Field Evaluation Questionnaire. FEQs solicit feedback from supervisors and/or graduates to
determine if the graduates were trained as specified in the training standard.

Functional Pairing Concept. Concept that 21Ms will develop expertise predominately in two of three
functional areas (ICBM, nuclear, and conventional). The traditional pairings are, but not limited to,
ICBM-Nuclear and Conventional-Nuclear.

GAS. Graduate Assessment Survey. The GAS gathers customer feedback on any AF graduate of
designated initial skill courses.

IAW. In Accordance With.



                                                   3
ICBM. Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles.         ICBMs are comprised of the Minuteman weapon
system. Minuteman is one of the three elements of the U.S. strategic nuclear arsenal.

IDE. Intermediate Developmental Education. Specific educational opportunities inside and outside
the AF to include but not limited to Air Command and Staff College, US Army Command and General
Staff College, College of Naval Command and Staff, Marine Corps Command and Staff, USAF
Academy AOC Masters Program, Air Force Institute of Technology and other identified advanced
academic degree programs.

IMOC. ICBM Maintenance Officer Course. An ICBM initial skills course taught by AETC at
Vandenberg AFB for missile maintenance officers. Also serves as a bridge course to officers cross-
training from another logistics discipline.

IST. Initial Skills Training. IST is a formal AETC resident course, which results in award of the
entry skill level.

LF. Launch Facility.

LSB/LEB. Launcher Support Building/Launcher Equipment Building. Area of an ICBM launch
facility containing environmental control, power distribution and other support equipment.

LCBP. Logistics Career Broadening Program.

MAF. Missile Alert Facility. Also, Mobility Air Forces.

MASO. Munitions Accountable Systems Officer. Oversees effective and efficient management of a
munitions stockpile.

AF MC2. Air Force Munitions Command and Control.

MFM. MAJCOM Functional Managers.

MOFC. Munitions and Missile Maintenance Officer Fundamentals Course. Prerequisite entry-
level course taught by AETC for munitions and missile maintenance officers. Officers must complete
course prior to attending the AFSC awarding conventional munitions (CMOC), missile maintenance
(IMOC), or nuclear munitions training.

MOIC. Maintenance Officer Intermediate Course.            An advanced course taught by AETC to
Aircraft, Munitions and Missile Maintenance Officers.

MSA. Munitions Storage Area.

NMOC.         Nuclear Maintenance Officer Course.        An AETC course for nuclear munitions
maintenance officer accessions. Also serves as a bridge course to officers cross-training from another
logistics discipline.

NWRM. Nuclear Weapons Related Material.

PRP. Personnel Reliability Program.




                                                  4
Qualification Training. Training designed to qualify an officer on tasks identified in part II. This
training occurs both during and after the upgrade training process and is designed to provide
performance skills training required to do the job.

QTP. Qualification Training Package. An instructional course designed for use at the unit. It may
be printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

RS. Reentry System.

RV. Reentry Vehicle.

SLMC. Senior Leaders’ Maintenance Course.

SOO. Senior Officer Orientation Course.

SOS. Squadron Officer School.

SDE. Senior Developmental Education. Specific educational opportunities inside and outside the AF
to include but not limited to Air War College, National Defense University, Industrial College of the
Armed Forces, Army War College and Naval War College.

TMRS. Tactical Munitions Reporting System.

TOS. Time on Station.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of
the United States Air Force.

TR. Training Reference.

UGT. Upgrade Training. Mandatory training, which leads to the award of a higher skill level.

U&TW. Utilization and Training Workshop. A forum led by the AFCFM and AETC/A3TM of
MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional managers (who are the focal point for career
field education and training within each MAJCOM), Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training
personnel that establish career field training requirements.

WSA. Weapons Storage Area.

WSO. Weapon Safety Officer.

WS3. Weapons Storage and Security System.




                                                 5
PART I

SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose. This CFETP contains information for career field functional managers, training managers,
commanders, supervisors, trainers, and technical training centers to plan, develop, manage and conduct a
robust 21M training and force development program. The CFETP:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to ensure training is provided at appropriate points in an officer’s career.

1.2. Identifies requirements for each certification level and recommends training for each career phase.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty.

1.4. Identifies training sources, and the training medium.

1.5. Establishes force development guidance the AFPC assignment team uses to allocate assignments.

2. CFETP Uses. MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFM) and supervisors at all levels will use this plan
to ensure a comprehensive and cohesive training program is instituted for each officer.

2.1. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) develops/revises formal resident, and exportable
training based on user requirements documented in this CFETP. AETC is responsible for developing
procurement and acquisition strategies to obtain the resources required to provide training identified in the
CFETP. The AETC Course Training Manager (AETC CTM) and the AFCFM are the custodians of this
CFETP and ensures HQ AFPC/DPPAT receives approved revisions for publication. The AETC CTM is
responsible for notifying HQ AETC to index the CFETP in http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

2.2. The AFCFM will schedule and chair a U&TW at a minimum, every three years to address the
training needs of the career field. Due to fiscal constraints, U&TWs may be partially conducted through
virtual methods such as Defense Connect On-line or video teleconferencing. In-person UT&W activities
should be limited in attendance and shortened to the maximum extent possible through use of virtual
preparation.

2.3. The MAJCOM functional manager will ensure training programs complement the CFETP mandatory
initial skills and upgrade requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by AETC and unit
resident training, or exportable courseware/courses. MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFSC
must be identified for inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate available training.

2.4. Commanders and immediate supervisors will manage and control progression through the career field
by ensuring each officer completes the mandatory training requirements for upgrade specified in this plan
as supplemented by their MAJCOM. The list of courses in Part II, Section D, will be used as a reference
to determine required training. Commanders should take advantage of local opportunities to provide 21M
officers the opportunity to develop consistent with the functional pairing concept.

2.5. Squadron Commanders, or equivalent, are responsible for ensuring their assigned officers meet the
requirements of the CFETP. Squadron Commander (or higher authority) will certify the officer’s
progression by documenting task completion on the “Training Completion Certification” sheet in the
CFETP or documented in Training Business Area (TBA) or approved electronic training record. Group
Commanders should take advantage of 21M/21A cross flow opportunities within their maintenance



                                                          6
group when circumstances allow. The functional pairing concept should take precedence over 21M/21A
cross flow where both opportunities exist locally and the officer has not gained experience in more than
one area of munitions. Group Commander 21M/21A cross flow decisions account for nearly all cross
flow experience between the two AFSCs, but the AFPC AT should be consulted as far in advance as
possible to secure required initial skills training before cross flow decisions are fully executed.

2.6. Individual 21M officers will use this CFETP to determine training requirements and understand the
career field development paths and opportunities. Each 21M officer will complete the mandatory
follow-on training requirements specified in this plan and as specified by the unit. Specific instructions
for follow-on training are described in Part II, Section C. The CFETP serves as the training record for
the individual officer and is to be maintained as part of their career development by the Squadron
Commander. Once the officer has met all Master Certification, training documentation will be returned
to the individual for personal disposition.

2.7. Cross flow officers will maintain a 21M CFETP while in the 21M cross flow and accomplish all
core tasks identified in this CFETP, as well as locally identified mandatory items. Recommend cross
flow officers returning to their core AFSC continue to maintain this record for future requirements. A
cross flow officer that does not have an AFSC related CFETP will use 21M CFETP.

3. Coordination and Approval. The CFETP is approved and maintained by the AFCFM in accordance
with (IAW) AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program Career Field Education and Training. Forward
recommended changes to the AFCFM, HQ USAF/A4LW. MAJCOM requests for additional training
must either be accompanied by funding or must be satisfied within existing resources. The AFCFM is the
approval authority. MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate
career field training requirements. The AETC CTM for AFSC 21M will coordinate with the AFCFM to
initiate an annual MAJCOM review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy.

4. Training Documentation. The use of TBA or approved electronic training record is mandatory for all
active, guard, and reserve munitions personnel to document CFETP requirements. Contact your
MAJCOM 21M functional if unable to comply with this mandate.




                                                    7
PART I

SECTION B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

1. Purpose. This section provides information for career field functional managers, commanders,
supervisors, training managers, trainers, and the technical training centers to plan career field progression
in the munitions and missile maintenance officer specialty. It also describes the functions and
responsibilities of the 21M AFSC.

2. Specialty Description. The 21M career field encompasses aircraft armament, conventional weapons,
nuclear weapons, cruise missile, Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) weapon system, and space lift
system maintenance. The following sub-paragraphs (2.1. through 2.3.) are duplicated from Air Force
Officer Classification Directory, 30 April 2013.

2.1. Specialty Summary. Manages maintenance and modification of conventional munitions, nuclear
weapons, Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBM), cruise missiles and associated equipment.
Administers weapons programs and resources. Directs weapons maintenance production, staff activity,
and related material programs. Manages missile maintenance activities at launch and missile alert
facilities, including maintenance, repair, and inspection of missile flight systems, expendable launch
vehicles (ELV), nuclear certified support vehicles and equipment, and associated ground support
equipment (SE). Serves as munitions and missile maintenance staff advisor to commanders. Related DoD
Occupational Groups: 240500.

2.2. Duties and Responsibilities:

2.2.1. Formulates maintenance procedures for all munitions and missile systems. Builds integrated
logistics support plans and develops maintenance support structures to sustain maintenance and
personnel. Manages storage and distribution of Air Force munitions. Establishes training requirements
and support standards of operational systems. Identifies and upgrades system deficiencies to meet mission
requirements and enhance safety.

2.2.2. Assesses operational requirements and environment. Advises commanders on risks associated with
conventional munitions, nuclear weapons, and missile operations. Evaluates explosives and nuclear safety
criteria and develops explosives site plans for storage, movement, and operations of conventional
munitions, nuclear weapons, and missiles. Conducts conventional munitions, nuclear weapons, and
missile safety training.

2.2.3. Manages conventional munitions, nuclear weapons, and missile maintenance production.
Recommends procedural and technical improvements and modifications. Schedules resources to ensure
required readiness. Enforces technical performance standards, and ensures assigned work force is
properly trained and equipped. Assesses unit capability and advises commanders, supervisors, and staff.
Budgets and allocates resources. Coordinates with operational and support units to ensure equipment
readiness and efficiency of assigned forces.

2.2.4. Formulates maintenance plans. Plans and programs support requirements, modifications, and
modernization. Defines technical problems and economic factors related to research and development,
and system application. Reviews maintenance and operational data to evaluate programs, assess trends,
and identify improvements and deficiencies.

2.2.5. Plans and directs munitions support for in-place and Air Expeditionary Force operations.



                                                     8
2.2.6. Plans and organizes munitions and missile maintenance activities. Performs engineering functions
for maintenance and operations facilities; provides space, tools, test equipment, and spare parts;
establishes workflow. Develops and improves methods and procedures for assembly, checkout,
calibration, and analysis of aerospace systems. Establishes performance standards for system assembly,
checkout, and component replacement. Plans and coordinates booster flight profiles. Manages
qualifications and validation of ELVs, including engineering proposals, hardware, and software
procurement. Certifies launch readiness of flight hardware, associated facilities, and supporting test range
resources. Directs DoD and civilian agencies and aerospace contractors throughout launch preparation
activities.

2.2.7. Manages and coordinates activities to support intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) launch
readiness operations. Advises commander on operational status of ICBM assets. Maintains liaison with
manufacturers' representatives to solve maintenance and performance problems. Coordinates lateral
logistics activities to ensure supply, transport, and funding are integrated to support mission requirements.
Develops flight plans and supports ground flight software and hardware configuration. Monitors
operation and performance of vehicle activities and flight dynamics. Represents logistics in development
of flight procedures, mission checklists, and mission flight rules.

2.2.8. Writes munitions, nuclear weapon, and missile maintenance annexes to logistics plans. Provides
weapon system data for operational and logistics support analysis. Monitors and evaluates contracted
logistics and maintenance support activities.

2.2.9. Develops procedures for storing, assembling, delivering, inventory management, and testing
conventional munitions, nuclear weapons, and missiles.

2.2.10. Develops procedures for, and manages, routine disposal of common US munitions.

2.2.11. Develops munitions accountability programs. Understands and manages all aspects of the Air
Force munitions accountability system.

2.3. Specialty Qualifications:

2.3.1. Knowledge. The following knowledge is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

2.3.1.1. 21M3A. Maintenance management procedures and organizational and mission requirements;
capabilities, limitations, and basic weapons, weapons procedures, and quality assurance; supply,
transportation, civil engineer, and other unit operations related to munitions, missile, or aircraft
maintenance units; conventional air-to-air missiles; air-to-ground weapons including guided, rocket-
boosted, and unguided munitions; dispensers and submunitions; suspension and release equipment; fuses;
wiring harnesses; loading procedures; safety tests; munitions (ground) handling equipment; maintenance
management; production control and maintenance data collection procedures; and lateral logistic
functions related to munitions maintenance.

2.3.1.2. 21M3I. Missile and re-entry systems; suspension and release equipment; weapon employment;
nuclear surety; joint nuclear procedures; related test, handling, and SE; evolution of missiles; missile
operations including booster and payload processing; solid and liquid rocket performance, maintenance
capabilities, limitations, and employment of missile equipment; and ICBM life cycle logistics.

2.3.1.3. 21M3N. Nuclear weapons and warheads; nuclear armament systems; suspension and release
equipment; nuclear weapons employment; Munitions Accountable Systems Officer responsibilities;


                                                     9
nuclear weapons maintenance, life cycle management, and inspections; nuclear surety; nuclear theory,
effects, and components; nuclear weapons storage; nuclear weapons movement; nuclear weapons physical
security; nuclear weapons transportation; nuclear weapons maintenance documentation, records and
reports; and joint nuclear procedures.

2.3.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, an undergraduate academic degree in engineering,
management, business administration, economics, mathematics, science, computer science, logistics
management, or space operations is desirable.

2.3.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

2.3.3.1. 21M1. Completion of the Munitions and Missile Maintenance Officer Fundamentals Course is
mandatory and a prerequisite for attending specialty shredout courses.

2.3.3.2. 21M1A. Completion of Conventional Munitions Officer Course.

2.3.3.3. 21M1I. Completion of ICBM Maintenance Officer Course.

2.3.3.4. 21M1N. Completion of Nuclear Maintenance Officer Course.

2.3.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC specialty shredout
indicated:

2.3.4.1. 21M3A. A minimum of 24 months experience managing conventional munitions maintenance
activities and completion of Career Field Education and Training Plan requirements are mandatory are
mandatory.

2.3.4.2. 21M3I. A minimum of 24 months experience managing ICBM maintenance activities and
completion of Career Field Education and Training Plan requirements are mandatory are mandatory.

2.3.4.3. 21M3N. A minimum of 24 months experience managing nuclear weapons maintenance activities
and completion of Career Field Education and Training Plan requirements are mandatory. Completion of
Nuclear Accountability Course is required within 24 months of assignment.

2.3.5. Other.

2.3.5.1. For entry into this specialty (ANG and AFRC officers exempt), accessions must be screened for
eligibility and meet requirements of the Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) as outlined in the HQ AETC
PRP prescreening guidance.

2.3.5.2. Specialty requires routine access to Top Secret material or similar environment. For award and
retention of AFSCs 21MXX, completion of a current Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI)
according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management is mandatory.

NOTE: Award of the entry level without a completed SSBI is authorized provided an interim Top Secret
security clearance has been granted according to AFI 31-501.




                                                   10
Table 1: Munitions and Missile Maintenance Officer Special Experience Identifiers (SEIs)
 MUNITIONS SPECIAL EXPERIENCE IDENTIFIERS
 WA      Nuclear Weapons         Requires (1) 12 consecutive months of nuclear weapons
         Maintenance – Level I   maintenance management experience and (2) Squadron
                                 Commander's recommendation. This experience set is authorized
                                 for use with AFSCs 21MX/X.
 WB      Nuclear Weapons         Requires (1) prior award of experience set WA, (2) a total of 48
         Maintenance – Level II months of nuclear weapons maintenance management experience
                                 and (3) Squadron or Group (if individual is assigned above
                                 squadron level) Commander's recommendation. This experience
                                 set is authorized for use with AFSCs 21MX/X.
 WC      Nuclear Weapons         Requires (1) a total of 96 months of nuclear weapons maintenance
         Maintenance – Level III management experience and (2) Squadron or Group (if individual
                                 is assigned above squadron level) Commander's recommendation.
                                 This experience set is authorized for use with AFSCs 21MX/X.
 QT      ICBM Maintenance        Requires (1) 12 consecutive months of ICBM maintenance
         Management – Level I    management experience and; (2) Squadron Commander’s
                                 recommendation. This experience set is authorized for use with
                                 AFSCs 21MX/X.
 QU      ICBM Maintenance        Requires (1) prior award of experience set QT, (2) a total of 48
         Management – Level II months of ICBM maintenance management experience and (3)
                                 Squadron or Group (if individual is assigned above squadron level)
                                 Commander’s recommendation. This experience set is authorized
                                 for use with AFSCs 21MX/X.
 QV      ICBM Maintenance        Requires (1) a total of 96 months of ICBM maintenance
         Management – Level III management experience and (2) Squadron or Group (if individual
                                 is assigned above squadron level) Commander’s recommendation.
                                 This experience set is authorized for use with AFSCs 21MX/X.

 Q7       USAF AMMOS                 Requires (1) completion of USAF AMMOS Course (PDS code
          Graduate                   XH4), IAW AFI 21-111, and (2) USAF AMMOS/CO approval.
                                     Authorized for use with AFSCs 21AX and 21MX.

 ET       Weapons Safety           Requires completion of Weapons Safety Officer Course
          (Explosives and Nuclear) (G30ZR4054X) or 6 months of consecutive experience in
                                   explosives and/or nuclear weapons safety functions.


3. Skill and Career Progression. Quality training and timely progression through skill levels plays an
extremely important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its mission. The guidance provided in
this part of the CFETP will ensure officers receive correct training at appropriate points in their career.
Generally, skill-level progression is associated with three levels of certification: Basic, Master and
Senior.

3.1. Entry Level. IAW AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, Initial Skills Training (IST) must be
completed within 6 months of entering active duty unless restricted by lack of security clearance or
other extenuating circumstances. Upon successful completion of MOFC and the appropriate AFSC
awarding follow-on course, graduates will be awarded the entry level “21M1” AFSC with the appropriate
“A”, “I” or “N” shred. Initial assignments provide opportunities to establish and build depth of


                                                    11
knowledge and technical expertise within this munitions and missile maintenance discipline.          Group
Commanders will expose new officers to the entire mission of the unit.

3.1.1 Positions include, but are not limited to those in Table 3.

3.1.2 Entry level officers should thoroughly understand all requirements within the 21M CFETP.

3.2. Basic Certification. The following are mandatory for basic certification: Completion of a formal
AETC entry-level training course, 24 months managing conventional munitions maintenance activities,
nuclear weapons maintenance activities, or ICBM maintenance activities, and completion of CFETP
requirements. Additionally, commanders may enroll officers in enlisted 2W or 2M Career Development
Courses to accelerate and enhance an officer’s technical knowledge.

3.3 Intermediate Level. This represents the period of time after the 24 month basic certification
and Senior Certification.

3.3.1. To develop a firm foundation in the maintenance career field, two of the first three assignments
should be in a 21M position. Commanders, supervisor and the individual officer should strive to fulfill
the intent of the functional pairing concept. The functional pairings are predominately ICBM – Nuclear
and Conventional – Nuclear; however, the Conventional – ICBM pairing meets this intent. Commanders
should take advantage of local broadening opportunities between 21M shreds as circumstances allow,
specifically at locations such as Minot and Whiteman where 21Ms can move between conventional and
nuclear maintenance billets and locations such as Vandenberg, FE Warren, Malmstrom and Minot
where 21Ms can move between ICBM and nuclear maintenance billets. Initial skills training
availability should be arranged before broadening decisions are finalized.

3.3.2. After broadening their knowledge, experience and expertise within the 21M career field,
Developmental Assignment (DA) opportunities should be considered. Primary DA cross flow should
be into aircraft maintenance, but other opportunities include AETC instructor, logistics readiness,
acquisition, Component Repair Facility/Air Logistics Complex (CRF/ALC), and aerospace power
employment. Timing and needs of the AF as well as individual goals will determine DA opportunities
for each individual. Back-to-back development/cross flow assignments are strongly discouraged.
Commanders may take advantage of local 21A/21M cross flow and broadening opportunities as
circumstances allow. Initial skills training availability should be arranged before cross flow decisions are
finalized.

3.3.3. Company Grade Officers will be considered for the Logistics Career Broadening Program by the
21A/M Development Team. Information pertaining to this program and eligibility criteria can be found in
AFI 36-2111, The Air Force Logistics Officer Career Broadening.

3.3.5. Positions include, but are not limited to those in Table 3.

3.4. Senior Certification. An officer will be eligible for the Senior level at the 7-year point in the
specialty, provided they have completed a second AETC 21M specialty shredout course, the AETC
Maintenance Officer Intermediate Course, or Advanced Maintenance and Munitions Officer School
Combat Support Course. With prior coordination and approval from Group Commanders, ARC members
may extend this requirement to 36 months to accommodate their unique time availability constraints. All
CFETP requirements must be complete for the officer to be eligible for the award of the Senior
certification.




                                                      12
3.5. Staff and Senior Level. At the field grade level, an officer will continue to broaden expertise while
strengthening their background in maintenance through leadership and staff assignments. During this
time they should pursue those opportunities that make them viable for squadron command and
subsequent selection for group command or a key senior maintenance officer position. DE and DA
opportunities for field grade officers are evolving. Check the AFPC Force Development web page for
the most current information.

3.5.1. DA opportunities include aircraft maintenance, logistics readiness, acquisition, CRF/ALC,
financial management, aerospace power employment, plans and programs and political military positions.

3.5.1.1 Positions include, but are not limited to those in the 21M Career Progression Chart, Table 3.

3.6. Master Certification. An officer will be eligible for the Master certification at the 15-year point
in the specialty. Time spent outside of career field in positions not coded 21MX does not count toward
award of master certification unless waivered by the Group Commander or equivalent. Officers within
this level of competency are prepared to assume broader leadership roles.

3.6.1. Positions include, but are not limited to those in the 21M Career Progression Chart, Table 3.

3.7. Grandfather Plan. When the 21M AFSC was formed in 1998, a plan was developed to transition
officers in various year groups into the new training scheme. These questions should be directed to
the MAJCOM 21M functional manager. MAJCOM functional managers can then consult the AFCFM if
necessary.

                                       Table 2. Grandfather Plan
                                                        CFETP Requirements
            TAFCSD
                                          Basic                  Senior                    Master
 1 Jan 02 through current                   All                   All                         All
 1 Jan 91 through 31 Dec 01           Grandfathered          Grandfathered                    All
 31 Dec 90 and prior                  Grandfathered          Grandfathered              Grandfathered

4. U&TW Training Decisions. After reviewing occupational analysis report (OAR) data, formal
training data, course training standards and available formal/informal courses, the following decisions
were made: The focus of the 21M breakout was to streamline the fundamental training while
retaining the nuclear emphasis. The courses were adjusted to ensure the educational applicability and
student retention of core nuclear enterprise tasks.

4.1. Removal of the Nuclear Fundamental Course (NFC), several areas of this course were taught
three times while students were in the pipeline. NFC tasks were consolidated and transferred to the
initial s k i l l s course in the pipeline. The team ensured the fidelity and depth of the course was not
diluted to maintain the critical emphasis on the nuclear community.

4.2. The initial course, MOFC, is the pipeline for all three 21M shred courses IMOC, CMOC and
NMOC. Each follow on course had several tasks pulled and added to the fundamental course to build
a better 21M foundation.

4.3. The ICBM course name will be changed from Missile Maintenance Officer Course (MMOC) to
ICBM Maintenance Officer Course (IMOC).



                                                    13
4.4. MOFC Synopsis: The MOFC CTS was expanded to include common tasks from all courses in
the 21M pipeline to enhance the fidelity of the core 21M officer. There were 36 tasks added to
MOFC. The majority of the added tasks came from NFC and the inclusion of tasks mirrored from the
Aircraft Maintenance Officer Course (AMOC) pertaining to delivery systems. All AMOC tasks
added were knowledge level tasks. Field Interviews and MAJCOM feedback indicated a need for
increased knowledge in supply procedures. Supply procedures were compared to those covered in the
Aircraft Maintenance Officer Course and courseware will be adjusted to standardize across the
21A/21M spectrum. Several tasks were deleted due to the redundancy across the pipeline and the
decision to emphasize those subjects in the initial skills courses. Three tasks were lowered from a "B"
to an "A" knowledge level to give a fundamental overview, while the initial skills courses will add to
the knowledge level in the learning continuum and to provide a solid foundation for the 21M officer.
Overall, MOFC increased in length by ten academic training days. There are no new requirements for
equipment or facilities.

4.5. CMOC Synopsis: The CMOC CTS was reviewed and 19 tasks were moved to MOFC to increase
the overall core 21M knowledge base. Two tasks were deleted due to redundancy. A Munitions
Report (MUREP) task was added to the "A" knowledge level. Additionally, two tasks were raised
from a knowledge level to a performance level to cement the application of explosive safety
requirements.      Munitions build-up procedures were increased from a knowledge level to a
performance level to ensure the conventional officer fully understands munitions operations. A
Munitions Assembly Conveyer (MAC) will be required to accomplish this task as well as additional
training munitions. A MAC is available in the training squadron and will be co-utilized with the
enlisted initial skills 2W0 course. A Munitions Storage Virtual Trainer (MSVT) is required to perform
Maintenance Generation Scenario, 8.1., Execute Munitions Maintenance Officer duties and is 2b/X
pending delivery of the MSVT to Sheppard AFB. This line will be accomplished to the “2b” level
upon receipt of the MSVT. System was functional as of October 2013; however, it remains in beta
testing at the time of this publication. CMOC decreased by five academic training days.

4.6. NMOC Synopsis: The NMOC CTS was assessed and two tasks were removed. One moved to
MOFC and the other task was deleted due to redundancy within the NMOC CTS. Four tasks were
lowered, one from a "B" knowledge level to an "A" and the other three were lowered from a "C" to a
"B" due to source material limitations. SAAM/PNAF Security was raised from an "A" to a "B" to
build and expand on knowledge taught in MOFC. SIPR accounts and a terminal are required for
instructor access to nuclear inspection reports and other restricted publications. Task line item 7.3
and its sub-tasks require a Reentry Vehicle (RV) Maintenance Trainer. This was also required in the
2008 21M U&TW, as to date, no trainer is available. Line items are met through co-utilization of
resources with the 2W2 enlisted initial skills course. However, the large amount of time required to
train the tasks (40 hours) continually creates severe scheduling constraints and possible training
deficiencies. Like CMOC, the MSVT is required to CTS 2.1, Demonstrate WSA Flight/Element
Interactions (Capstone Exercise) and is 2b/X pending delivery of the MSVT to Sheppard AFB. This line
will be accomplished to the “2b” level upon receipt of the MSVT. Anticipated delivery date December
2012. There was no change in the course length, course remains at 35 academic training days.

4.7. IMOC Synopsis: The title for the current MMOC will be changed to IMOC. A bridge course is
required and will be created to better manage core 21M officers who will be transferring to an ICBM
unit. The current supplemental course (V3OZR21M3I 088A) will be discontinued because the
requirement no longer exists. Twenty-three tasks were removed. One was deleted because a 21M is
not required to know the task. Two tasks were moved to MOFC to enhance ICBM learning in the
fundamentals course. Twenty tasks were merged as a result of task analysis. Two tasks were raised


                                                  14
from an "A" knowledge level to a "B". Both tasks were raised to build and expand on knowledge
taught in MOFC. Three tasks were lowered from a "B" knowledge level to an "A". The schematic
task was lowered to expose the 21M to basic facts of schematics since the ICBM officer does not
directly perform maintenance. The MPH task was also lowered from a "B" to an "A" due to the
directive nature of the establishment of the MPH network. Secure transportation was lowered from a
"B" to an "A" due to classification of information. Nine tasks had changes in learning levels; three of
those went from a "c" knowledge level to a "lb" to allow the ICBM officer a first-hand understanding
of those procedures. Six tasks went from a "c" performance task knowledge level to a "B" to realistically
mirror knowledge required for the field. A periodic maintenance task was added as a requirement to
meet other training line items. SIPR accounts and a terminal are required for instructor access to
nuclear inspection reports and other restricted publications. Overall, the course decreased by four
academic training days.

4.8. NAC Synopsis: The NAC CTS was assessed and “C” level objectives were changed to “B” level
objectives to emphasis the relationship of basic facts and general principles about subject contents as well
as allow for better course flow. Two tasks, SAAM/PNAF Security and Operational Movements, were
emphasized so course development personnel could build on knowledge gained in MOFC and NMOC.
The DIAMONDS Accountability Training System (DATS) database needs to be modified to reflect
more accurate weapon information and codes. The NAC instructors have created a Location Inventory
Listing (LIL) that reflects the desired database and have submitted it to DTRA to have the DATS
database changed. MAJCOM functional support may be required to facilitate required changes.
SIPR accounts and a terminal are required for instructor access to nuclear inspection reports and other
restricted publications. The CTS remained otherwise unchanged and the course will remain at 16
academic training days.

4.9. These changes reflect the creation of the three 21M shreds matching the three distinct experience sets
to facilitate more deliberate cultivation of nuclear experience as described previously in this CFETP and
graphically presented in Table 3. The course training standards are presented in Attachment 4.

4.10. Proficiency Training. Each MAJCOM provided MAJCOM-specific proficiency codes for 21M
officer “Follow-on Unit Training.” Units may increase task proficiency requirements, but may not
decrease the established MAJCOM levels. Conventional and nuclear training standards were added as
an objective measure of an officer’s readiness to perform well in those duties. Additionally, the U&TW
recognized the value in the 2W0, 2W1, 2W2 and 2M0 career development courses. The U&TW agreed
the technical knowledge of all 21Ms could be increased to: a) enhance 21M understanding of enlisted
workforce training, b) increase 21M technical communication ability with enlisted workforce members,
c) increase 21M credibility with wing level senior leaders (often with operations backgrounds) who
expect more technical knowledge than has been traditionally been expected within the 21M community.
The U&TW stopped short of making CDC completion a basic certification requirement recognizing this
as an individual officer or commander’s option to enhance weapon system technical knowledge. The
U&TW additionally recognized the intent is not to turn 21Ms into technicians, but that 21Ms with
enhanced technical knowledge can be more effective workforce managers and leaders.

5. 21M Career Progression. Experience and knowledge in this Air Force specialty will help officers
plan and achieve their Air Force career goals as Munitions and Missile Maintenance Officers. There are
certain jobs or experiences in this discipline that will assist them in meeting individual goals.

5.1. All facets of unit-level maintenance provide ample opportunities to supervise Airmen of all ranks
and experience levels. It is common to find Maintenance officers leading and supervising as few as 30
technicians to as many as 200 on their first assignment. Several permanent change of station (PCS)


                                                    15
moves are normally required for you to experience the breadth of unit maintenance opportunities to
sufficient depth. When contemplating such a move, keep in mind the following:

      Functional Pairing Concept. Broadening to another 21M3X shred to obtain complementary
       experience IAW 21M CFETP guidance (i.e. 21M3I to 21M3N) will expand an officers
       understanding of the differences in weapon system complexity, supportability, and deployability
       within the 21M career field.

      Short-tour overseas assignments represent prime opportunities to quickly fill gaps in your
       professional development and to hone skills in a typically austere environment.

      A change in major command (MAJCOM). Be mindful of the fact that experience in several
       different MAJCOMs will give you a broader view of the total Air Force mission and a deeper
       understanding of how all the "pieces" fit together. This knowledge will lay the foundation for
       success on the Air Staff or Joint Staff.

5.2. Officers will develop depth on their first assignment by gaining experience both as a leader and a
functional expert. As they progress, officers will gain experience and depth that will ultimately lead to
becoming a fully qualified maintenance officer (21M3X). Some officers will have the opportunity to
cross flow into the aircraft maintenance career field. A minimum of three years of experience is
recommended before cross flowing into a second AFSC. Upon completion of training, a minimum of 24
months of experience is required to become fully qualified in the second functional area. Maintenance
officers will also gain valuable experience in their development while assigned to a headquarters staff
position and during a tour as an Operations Officer.

5.3. Upon completion of the second tour, a variety of new options become available. Officers will have
the opportunity to:

      Concentrate on building depth by leading a larger flight/branch or leading squadron maintenance
       activities as an Operations Officer.

      Cross flow into Aircraft Maintenance or other logistics disciplines to develop breadth of
       experience. Compete for Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) Degree Programs. Officers
       graduating from these programs are typically assigned to staff positions.

      Career broaden into an Air Force Special Duty. Opportunities include: United States Air Force
       Academy (USAFA), Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC), Squadron Officers School (SOS),
       and Officer Training School (OTS) instructors, Recruiting Flight Commander, command and
       control operations, and operations support officers. These jobs are available to a limited number
       of maintenance officers. Release is contingent on career field dynamics and officers return to
       their “core” AFSC following the career broadening tour.

5.4. The technical foundation built early in a career will pay great dividends as a staff officer. Staff
billets above the wing level for munitions officers are available at NAF, MAJCOM, HQ Air Force, joint
service agencies, Direct Reporting Unit (DRU), and field operating agencies. Staff positions will
normally be coded with a shred to indicate the type of experience the officer needs to be effective in the
position.

5.5. A certain percentage of those officers selected for major will be identified as candidates for
resident Intermediate Developmental Education (IDE). Many IDE students will go to a challenging
joint-duty staff assignment, commander, MAJCOM, or Air Staff level job upon graduation. Officers not


                                                   16
afforded the opportunity to attend Professional Military Education (PME) in residence must complete
PME by correspondence or seminar to remain competitive in their Air Force career progression.

5.6. Command billets exist at several levels. Captains can compete for detachment commander
positions; majors and lieutenant colonels can compete for squadron command positions. Assignments
for lieutenant colonels include opportunities to serve as Squadron Commanders, joint duty positions,
higher headquarter staff positions, as ROTC Detachment Commanders, and Deputy Maintenance Group
Commanders.

5.7. Officers selected for promotion to lieutenant colonel or colonel will also have the opportunity to
compete for in-residence attendance at SDE. Upon graduation, officers may be assigned to the Air Staff,
joint-duty billets or chosen for command at the group level. An officer’s performance in their current
job is the most important factor in determining future opportunities.

                                    Table 3. 21M Career Progression Chart.



                                                             Joint
                                                           HQ USAF
                                                           MAJCOM
                                                           Group CC
                                                           ALC/SPM


                                                       HQ USAF, MAJCOM            SDE
                                                          ALC/SPM/PGM
                                                                                  AWC, ICAF, NWC, Fellowships

                                                           Dep Grp/CC
                                                     Squadron Commander
                                                  Developmental Assignment                 IDE
                                                     Developmental Assignment
                                             Special Duty             Ops Officer          ACSC, AAD (AFIT, NPS), EWI,
                                            Joint /OSD/DLA          DRU, FOA, Center       Fellowships


                                                                   Leadership (Wing/Base
                                         MAJCOM/NAF
                                                                   Ops Officer, IDO, AMU
                                            Staff                  OIC, Flt/CC, MASO,
                                                                                                    BDE
                                                                   ALC, SPO)                        AAD, SOS, AFIT
                                   LCBP, Acq Log                      Developmental Assignment
                                                                                                         Training
                               21M Continuing Core Development             Special Duty                  CMOC, NMOC, IMOC,
                                in ICBM, Nuclear or Conventional   (PME, Schoolhouse, Instructor,        MOIC, AMMOS
                                                                    Exchange Officer, Recruiting)



                                                                                                                Training
                                             Maintenance Officer Job Proficiencies
                                                                                                                MOFC, CMOC,
                                                                                                                NMOC, IMOC
                                                       Flt/CC, OIC, MASO
                                                                                                                 Begin AAD




                                                           17
PART I

SECTION C - PROFICIENCY TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

1. Purpose. The proficiency training requirements in the 21MX career field are defined in terms of
task and knowledge requirements for each skill level in the munitions, missile and space maintenance
officer specialty. They are stated in broad, general terms, and establish the standards of performance.
The specific knowledge training requirements are identified in Part II. Officers will develop depth on
their first unit level assignment by gaining experience both as a leader and a functional expert.

2. 21M1 and 21M3 Specialty Qualification Requirements: Once the officer successfully completes
MOFC and completes 24 months of 21M duty as a 21M1, the officer can be considered for upgrade to
a 21M3. The Squadron Commander will verify the munitions and missile maintenance officer has
completed training requirements for award of 21M3 AFSC, which designates full qualification. The
Squadron Commander will then certify the officer for upgrade.

2.1. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

2.1.1. 21M1X. Award of the 21M1 AFSC, requires completion of the AETC resident initial skills
courses. MOFC is the pre-requisite feeder course. 21M1A officers attend CMOC, 21M1I officer attend
IMOC and 21M1N officers attend NMOC.

2.2. Experience. The following is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

2.2.1. 21M3X. Complete all CFETP core training requirements for the appropriate shred and a minimum
of 24 months of experience managing conventional munitions, ICBM or nuclear maintenance activities.

2.2.2. 21M3X Broadening. Officers are expected to broaden within the 21M career field IAW CFETP
guidance and functional pairing concept. The appropriate initial skills course (NMOC, CMOC, IMOC)
will be attended and completion of appropriate mandatory CFETP training is required.

2.3. Training Sources. A list of all courses supporting education and training is in Part II, Section B.

2.4. Implementation. The Training Task List in Part II, Section C outlines tasks that should be taken to
reach appropriate training levels.

3. 21M4 Specialty Qualification Requirements:

3.1. Education. Master’s degree in logistics management or business administration with emphasis on
management is highly desirable.

3.2. Training. 21M4 training is same as 21M3.

3.3. Experience. Award of the 21M4 will be made to officers who were awarded the 21M3 AFSC,
successfully completed the AETC MOIC or AMMOS course and are assigned to a staff position above
the wing level. Its purpose is for listing requirements to fill staff positions, not as an individual’s
progression.

3.4. Implementation. The Training Task List in Part II, Section C outlines tasks that should be taken to
reach appropriate training levels.



                                                    18
PART I

SECTION D – RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS.

1. Resource Constraints. Identified under U&TW Training Decisions, Part 1 Section B, 4. Any resource
constraints identified during course revision will be forwarded for Course Resource Estimate and
forwarded to AETC/A3TM Training Pipeline Manager for resolution IAW AFI 36-2201 and AETCI 36-
2203.




                                                19
PART II

1. Purpose. Provide a comprehensive listing of training courses and standards available to support 21MX
training requirements.

2. Part II contains four sections: CTS; Training Course Index; Support Material; and MAJCOM Unique
Requirements.

SECTION A – COURSE TRAINING STANDARD

1. Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level requirements. These are based on an analysis of the duties
contained herein and validated by the U&TW. The qualitative requirements for each task are based on
the proficiency values listed on the Proficiency Code Key in Attachment 4.

1.1. Customer Feedback. Unit supervisors will submit responses to Graduate Assessment Surveys
(GAS) and Field Evaluation Questionnaires (FEQ) on officers who complete the formal MOFC training
at Sheppard AFB. Respond to GASs and FEQs when received from the technical training group (82 TRG
and 381 TRG). (Reference AFI 36-2201)

1.2. Records Documentation. Completion of training will be documented and certified. Squadron
Commanders will document MOFC, CMOC, IMOC and/or NMOC training completion in the officer’s
CFETP in the table at Attachment 1, Training Completion Certification. Supervisors will document
follow-on unit training using the Training Task List table in Part II, Section C. The officer’s Squadron
Commander is responsible for certifying that the officer has completed all formal training and is task
knowledge. The commander will document this in TBA or approved electronic training record.

1.3. The Course Training Standards (CTS) are listed in the attachments of this CFETP. Task, Knowledge,
and Proficiency Levels are broken out by each training course CTS.




                                                  20
PART II

SECTION B –TRAINING COURSE INDEX

1. Purpose. This section of CFETP identifies training courses available in the munitions and missile
maintenance officer specialty and shows how courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field
training programs. Career field functional managers and training management personnel should use
this information to plan, develop and update their respective MAJCOM continuation training program.
The Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) contains more detailed course information
at https://etca.randolph.af.mil. Refer to this site for more detailed course information.

2. Munitions and Missile Maintenance Officer AFSC Awarding Courses. All 21M accession
officers and non-21X cross flow officers will attend MOFC, and the initial skills course for the
appropriate 21M shred (IMOC for 21MXI, NMOC for 21MXN, and CMOC for 21MXA).

2.1. MOFC. This course is required initial skills training for all 21MXX accession and cross flow
officers who do not already possess the 21M AFSC. Cross flow officers who attended MOFC as part of
their initial skills training are not required to repeat MOFC (e.g., 21AX officers).

2.1.1. MOFC presents general maintenance principles, processes and organizations so that students
understand core maintenance and operations in a both wartime and peacetime environments and is the
initial course requirement for all 21M officers. The MOFC CTS detailing the Task, Knowledge, and
Proficiency Level are presented in Attachment 3.

2.2. IMOC. Initial skills training for all 21MXI accession and cross flow officers assigned to ICBM or
space lift maintenance positions. IMOC fulfills bridge course requirements for those officers cross
flowing from other 21M shreds or broadening from 21A or non-maintenance officer AFSCs (after MOFC
completion) identified to fill a 21MXI position.

2.2.1. The ICBM task familiarization portion of IMOC is taught at the macro level. The goal of the
training is not task proficiency, but to guarantee subject and task knowledge to identify critical steps
within various maintenance procedures. This is accomplished by emphasizing safety, security, use of
technical orders, applicable code components or other critical items during task familiarization. Within
this level of training, the student must complete the actual task to ensure task comprehension. The
instructor controls task flow to stress identified areas of emphasis. The IMOC CTS detailing the Task,
Knowledge, and Proficiency Level are presented in Attachment 4.

2.3. CMOC. Initial skills training for all 21MXA accession and cross flow officers assigned to
conventional munitions maintenance positions. CMOC fulfills bridge requirements for those officers cross
flowing from other 21M shreds or broadening from 21A or non-maintenance officer AFSCs (after MOFC
completion) identified to fill a 21MXA position.

2.3.1. CMOC students will gain understanding of munitions operations in both war and peacetime
environments. Core topics are munitions production processes, stockpile maintenance processes and
munitions accounting processes and how they support mission generation and war readiness material
global ammunition requirements, allocation, movement and posturing. The CMOC CTS detailing the
Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level are presented in Attachment 5.

2.4. NMOC. Initial skills training for all 21MXN accession officers assigned to nuclear weapons
maintenance positions. NMOC fulfills bridge requirements for those officers cross flowing from other


                                                  21
21M shreds or broadening from 21A or non-maintenance officer AFSCs (after MOFC completion)
identified to fill a 21MXN position.

2.4.1. NMOC students will gain an understanding of nuclear weapons maintenance operations. They will
become familiar with DoD, CJCSI and service guidance that define how nuclear operations are governed
as well as nuclear weapons principles of operations and effects. The course will contain hands-on
weapons maintenance tasks to indoctrinate students into the exacting nature of weapons maintenance
tasks. Additionally the course covers nuclear certification for equipment and weapon systems and the
unique lifecycle sustainment processes. Students are required to have a secret clearance and must have
CNWDI access granted by their home unit commander to attend this course. The NMOC CTS
detailing the Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level are presented in Attachment 6.

3. Non-AFSC Awarding Courses.

3.1. MOIC. Provides training for Air Force officers in mission generation and repair network
operations, performance indicators, maintenance planning, maintenance and operations scheduling,
aircraft forms, training, manpower, budgets, maintenance data analysis, Air Force occupational safety
and mishap prevention, quality assurance, supply/acquisition processes, deployments, flight line
processes, aerospace expeditionary forces, munitions and armament systems. This course is an optional
requirement for senior certification and is encouraged but not mandatory for the ARC.

3.2. Nuclear Accountability Course (NAC). The course provides training for selected Air Force
officers in the advanced knowledge and skills needed to perform Munitions Accountable Systems Officer
(MASO) duties, and 2W2 technicians to achieve the highest level of mission readiness in Nuclear
Ordnance Controlled Materiel (NOCM) account management. The scope of training includes Stockpile
Laboratory Test (SLT), Stockpile Flight Test (SFT), and training weapons, nuclear weapons configuration
records, Access, Approval, and Authority List (AAAL) management responsibilities, transportation of
munitions, Nuclear Accountability and Reporting Section (NARS), and Defense Integration And
Management Of Nuclear Data Services (DIAMONDS) roles, responsibilities, and applications. The NAC
CTS detailing the Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level are presented in Attachment 7.

3.3. Conventional Munitions Accountability Course. This course teaches conventional munitions
accountability and stockpile management processes and how these processes are managed in the Combat
Ammunitions System (CAS) system. This course can be a valuable to a 21MXA officer’s education in
that it offers a hands-on understanding of accountability processes and enables students to understand
these processes in the context of the AIT system. Additionally, it de-mystifies and enhances the
officer’s knowledge of CAS enabling the officer to gain an understanding of its capabilities and
application in conventional munitions management.

3.4. Air Force Combat Ammunition Center (AFCOMAC). AFCOMAC offers two courses for
continuing development of munitions officers. The Combat Ammunition Planning and Production
(CAPP) course is applicable to company grade officers serving in a munitions position. The CAPP
course quotas are filled by the MAJCOMs through the Air Force Training Management System
(AFTMS) under course code ACC AFCOMAC, PDS code 8RM. The Senior Officer Orientation
Course (SOO) is applicable to senior officers (O-4 and above, serving as Squadron Commanders,
Logistics/Operations Group Commanders, Wing Commanders, and headquarters-level staff
officers/division chiefs/directors) and civilian equivalents in logistics and operations disciplines.
MAJCOM munitions functional managers manage SOO course quotas. TDY expenses for both courses
are funded by Air Combat Command (ACC) through the 9th Munitions Squadron. Details may be found
at https://cs.eis.af.mil/afmunitions/AFCOMAC%20Scheduling%20Site/default.aspx.



                                                  22
3.4.1. CAPP Course. This course consists of two weeks of academic instruction in a seminar
environment, followed by a five-day practical exercise. During the academic portion of the course,
the students edit an existing Munitions Employment Plan (MEP) which they implement during the
practical phase. The students are exposed to all the steps and source documents necessary to develop
an effective plan. The Ex e r c i s e IRON FLAG practical exercise allows the students to implement
their MEP in support of an exercise Air Tasking Order (ATO). Both fighter and bomber scenarios are
included.

3.4.1.1. 21MXX officers should have completed CMOC prior to attending CAPP and 21MXA
officers have priority over 21MXN/I officers for attendance. 21MXA officers in their first assignment
ideally should attend CAPP between 12 and 24 months of duty as mission permits. When attending as a
Second or First Lieutenant, the objectives call for the officer to be rotated through as many of the
Exercise IRON FLAG production operations as possible to gain an understanding of each production
function. Additionally, it is highly encouraged for 21MXA officers to attend CAPP a second time as a
Captain to serve as the class commander to mentor the Lieutenants in the class. Attending a second time
offers an entirely different leadership level experience from the first production level/hands-on experience.

3.4.2. SOO Course. This 2-day course provides an orientation in the concepts and techniques involved
in combat munitions planning and production. The course takes place during the CAPP course Exercise
IRON FLAG practical exercise so senior officers can observe and participate in a mass munitions
production operation. Field grade officers (and civilian equivalents) in logistics and operations
disciplines are selected for SOO attendance at the discretion of the MAJCOM.

4. Air Force In-Residence Course List.

 COURSE NUMBER             TITLE                                       LOCATION              AFSC AWRD
 J3OQR21M1 0F1C            Munitions and Missile Maintenance           Sheppard AFB           Pre-requisite
                           Officer Fundamentals Course
 V3OBR21M1I 088B           ICBM Maintenance Officer Course             Vandenberg AFB             YES
 V3OLR21M1I 088A           ICBM Maintenance Officer Course             Vandenberg AFB             YES
                           (Bridge)
 J3OBR21M1A 0M1B           Conventional Munitions Officer Course       Sheppard AFB               YES
 J3OLR21M1A 0M1B           Conventional Munitions Officer (Bridge)     Sheppard AFB               YES
                           Course
 J3OBR21M1N 0N1C           Nuclear Maintenance Officer Course          Sheppard AFB               YES
 J3OLR21M1N 0N1C           Nuclear Maintenance Officer (Bridge)        Sheppard AFB               YES
                           Course
 J30AR21XX 0A1B            Maintenance Officer Intermediate            Sheppard AFB
                           Course
 WCIP05A                   Aircraft Mishap Investigation Course        Kirtland AFB
 WCIP059                   Mishap Investigation Non-Aviation           Kirtland AFB
 L3AZR2W071 0C2A           Weapons Safety Management Course            Lackland AFB
 J3AZR2W051 0A0B           Conventional Munitions Accountability       Sheppard AFB
 J3OZR21M1N 0N1B           Nuclear Accountability Course               Sheppard AFB
 J50ZD21A1A 02DA           AF Nuclear Weapon Refresher Training        Kirtland AFB
 ACC AFCOMAC               ACC Combat Ammunition Planning and          Beale AFB
                           Production (CAPP)
 ACC AMMOS                 Advanced Maintenance & Munitions            Nellis AFB
                           Officer School (AMMOS)


                                                     23
                          AFNWC Nuclear Management                    Kirtland AFB
                          Fundamentals
                          CourseAdvanced ICBM Course
                          NSSI                                        Peterson AFB
5. Air Force Enlisted Career Development Courses.

5.1. According to the Air University Registrar’s Office, officers are eligible to enroll into CDCs and the
enrollment process is simple for officers desiring to take a CDC. Enrollment is processed through
MILPDS at the base education office or through the unit training manager who has MILPDS access, as a
“voluntary enrollment” in the system, just as a PME enrollment is requested.

5.2. Enlisted CDCs are exceptional sources of both technical and process information and can greatly
increase the technical competency of the 21M CGO workforce. Officers are encouraged to pursue these
outstanding courses, as they apply to their duties, to deepen their technical knowledge and commanders
are encouraged to leverage these resources and integrate them into their officers’ training plan. If
enrollment problems are encountered, email usaf.pentagon.af-a4-7.mbx.a4lw-workflow@mail.mil,
attention, “21M Career Field Manager AO”.

 COURSE NUMBER            TITLE
 CDC 2M051                Missile and Space Systems Electronic Maintenance Journeyman
 CDC 2M052                Missile and Space Systems Maintenance Journeyman
 CDC 2M053                Missile and Space Systems Facilities Journeyman
 CDC 2M071                Missile and Space Systems Electronic Maintenance Craftsman
 CDC 2M072                Missile and Space Systems Maintenance Craftsman
 CDC 2M073                Missile and Space Systems Facilities Craftsman
 CDC 2W151A               Aircraft Armament Systems Journeyman
 CDC 2W151B               Aircraft Armament Systems Journeyman
 CDC 2W171                Aircraft Armament Systems Craftsman
 CDC 2W051A               Munitions Systems Journeyman
 CDC 2W051B               Munitions Systems Journeyman
 CDC 2W251A               Nuclear Weapons Journeyman
 CDC 2W251B               Nuclear Weapons Journeyman
 CDC 2W271                Nuclear Weapons Craftsman

6. Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT): AFIT is the Air Force’s premier institution of
professional and graduate education in acquisition, logistics, engineering, and management.

6.1. The AFIT Logistics Management Graduate Program provides a broad and diverse curriculum
equipping students with the skills required to perform most effectively as middle and upper managers in
any of a variety of USAF and DoD logistics positions. Satisfactory completion of the graduate curriculum
leads to award of a Master of Science degree in logistics management. Course duration is 15
months. A bachelor’s degree in business administration, transportation, economics, the physical
sciences, industrial engineering, or a degree from a service academy is required. As a minimum, the
officer must have completed college algebra with a grade of C or higher. Intermediate algebra does not
satisfy this requirement. Applicants must satisfactorily complete either the aptitude test for the Graduate
Record Examination (GRE) or Graduate Management Aptitude Test (GMAT) before a letter of eligibility
will be issued.

6.2. AFIT’s School of Systems and Logistics (AFIT/LS) is the Air Force’s sole provider of
professional continuing education (PCE) courses in the areas of Logistics, Acquisition, and Software
Engineering. The school offers courses, executive seminars, and tailored workshops that transcend


                                                    24
specialty boundaries. Optional courses available for the 21MX qualification/certification provide
professional tools needed for effective combat support and attendance is highly encouraged. Contact
your local education and training office for the latest information on scheduled course offerings.
Contact LSA to set-up out-of-cycle requirements or DSN: 785-7777 extension 3107 or
http://www.afit.edu/ls. Course descriptions are also listed at the AFIT web site.

 COURSE NUMBER           TITLE
 WLOG 131                Industrial Maintenance Management Course
 WLOG 262                Applied Maintenance Management Concepts Course
 WLOG 199                Introduction to Logistics Course Focus
 WLOG 299                Combat Logistics
 WLOG 399                Strategic Logistics Management
 WLOG 499                Executive Management
 WLOG 032                Reliability Centered Maintenance
 LOG 262                 Applied Maintenance Management Concepts
 LOG 299                 Combat Logistics
 LOG 399                 Strategic Logistics Management
 REQ 111                 Capabilities Based Operational Requirements Course
 SYS 170                 Maintenance Planning
 SYS 172                 Modification Management Process
 SYS 173                 Product Support Management Planning
 SYS 350                 Reducing Acquisition Response Time
 SYS 352                 Incentives for Reducing Acquisition Response Time


7. Field Training Detachment Courses. There are no FTD courses available.

8. Extension Course Institute (ECI) Courses. There are no ECI courses available.

9. Exportable Courses. There are no exportable courses available.

10. Follow-on MAJCOM/Unit Courses (not all inclusive).

10.1. USAFE Nuclear College: For information go to the Nuclear College web-site
 https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-LG-FE-44/default.aspx
 COURSE NUMBER TITLE                                                         LOCATION
 USAFE-NMC                   Nuclear Managers Course                         Ramstein AB, GE
 USAFE-SLNC                  Senior Leaders Nuclear Course                   Ramstein AB, GE
 USAFE-SUP                   Weapons Maintenance Supervisors Course          Ramstein AB, GE
 USAFE-LMC                   Load Monitors Course                            Ramstein AB, GE

11. Department of Defense Courses.

11.1. Defense Acquisition University (DAU): DAU coordinates the acquisition education and training
programs to meet the training requirements of approximately 132, 000 DoD Acquisition, Technology
and Logistics (AT&L) workforce personnel. As the DoD corporate university for acquisition
education, the DAU sponsors curriculum and instructor training to provide a full range of basic,
intermediate, advanced, and assignment-specific courses to support the career goals and professional
development of the AT&L Workforce. Information and course descriptions can be found at
http://www.dau.mil/.



                                                 25
 COURSE NUMBER          TITLE                                                  LOCATION
 DAU ACQ 101            Fundamentals of Systems Acquisition Management         On-Line
 DAU ACQ 201A           Intermediate Systems Acquisition, Part A               DSMC, Ft Belvoir
 DAU ACQ 201B           Intermediate Systems Acquisition, Part B               Campus
                                                                               DSMC, Ft Belvoir
 DAU LOG 101            Acquisition Logistics Fundamentals                     Campus
                                                                               On-Line
 DAU LOG 102            Systems Sustainment Management Fundamentals            DSMC, Ft Belvoir
 DAU LOG 201A           Intermediate Acquisition Logistics, Part A             Campus Ft Belvoir
                                                                               DSMC,
 DAU LOG 201B           Intermediate Acquisition Logistics, Part B             Campus Ft Belvoir
                                                                               DSMC,
 DAU LOG 203            Reliability and Maintainability                        Campus
                                                                               On-Line
 DAU LOG 204            Configuration Management                               DSMC, Ft Belvoir
 DAU LOG 235A           Performance Based Logistics, Part A                    Campus
                                                                               DSMC, Ft Belvoir
 DAU LOG 235B           Performance Based Logistics, Part B                    Campus Ft Belvoir
                                                                               DSMC,
 DAU LOG 304            Executive Life Cycle Logistics Management              Campus Ft Belvoir
                                                                               DSMC,
 DAU PMT 250            Program Management Tools                               Campus Ft Belvoir
                                                                               DSMC,
 DAU PQM 101            Production, Quality & Manufacturing Fundamentals       Campus
                                                                               On-Line
 DAU PQM 201A           Intermediate Production, Quality & Manufacturing,      DSMC, Ft Belvoir
                        Part A                                                 Campus
 DAU PQM 201B           Intermediate Production, Quality & Manufacturing,      DSMC, Ft Belvoir
                        Part B                                                 Campus
 DAU TST 101            Intro to Acquisition Workforce Test & Evaluation       On-Line

11.2. Defense Nuclear Weapons School (DNWS):                 DNWS provides nuclear weapons core
competencies and chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high explosive (CBRNE) response
training to DoD, other Federal and State Agencies, and National Laboratory personnel. The DNWS
provides the warfighter with topical information relating to United States nuclear weapons, weapons of
mass destruction (WMD)/CBRNE, proliferation issues, nuclear accident response and radiological and
health environmental issues. Information and course descriptions can be found at
http://www.dtra.mil/SpecialFocus/WMDEdu.aspx.

 COURSE NUMBER           TITLE                                                 LOCATION
 DNWS NWOC               Nuclear Weapons Orientation Course                    DNWS, Kirtland AFB,
 DNWS TNOC               Theater Nuclear Operations Course                     NM
                                                                               DNWS, Kirtland AFB,
                         Defense Ammunition Center (DAC)                       NM
                         http://ammo.okstate.edu




                                                 26
PART II

Section C – SUPPORT MATERIAL

1. Reference List. The following list is not all inclusive; however, it covers the most frequently
referenced instructions, directives, technical orders, tactics, techniques and procedures.

 1.1. Instructions and Directives.
˗ AFI 10-206: Operational Reporting
˗ AFI 10-2501: Full Spectrum Threat Response (FSTR) Planning and Operations
- AFI 13-526v1: Prime Nuclear Airlift Force Operations
- AFI 13-526v2: DOE/NNSA Category I & II Special Nuclear Material (SNM) Cargo Airlift Operations
˗ AFI 20-110: Nuclear Weapons Related Materiel Management
˗ AFI 20-111: Logistics Compliance Assessment Program (LCAP)
˗ AFI 21-101: Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management
˗ AFI 21-102: Depot Maintenance Management
˗ AFI 21-103: Equipment Inventory, Status and Utilization Reporting
˗ AFI 21-104: Selective Management of Selected Gas Turbine Engines
˗ AFI 21-109: Communications Security (COMSEC) Equipment Maintenance/Maintenance Training
˗ AFI 21-110: Engineering and Technical Services
˗ AFI 21-115: Product Quality Deficiency Report Program
˗ AFI 21-118: Improving Air & Space Equipment Reliability & Maintainability
˗ AFI 21-200: Munitions and Missile Maintenance Management
˗ AFI 21-201: Conventional Munitions Maintenance Management
˗ AFI 21-202v 1 & 2: Missile Maintenance Management
˗ AFI 21-203: Nuclear Accountability Procedures
˗ AFI 21-204: Nuclear Weapons Maintenance Procedures
˗ AFI 21-211: Emergency Munitions Support For Joint Operations
˗ AFI 21-303: Technical Orders
- AFI 23-101: AIR FORCE MATERIEL MANAGEMENT
˗ AFI 23-111: Management of Government Property in Possession of the Air Force
˗ AFI 25-101: WRM Program Guidance and Procedures
˗ AFI 31-101: The Air Force Installation Security Program (FOUO)
˗ AFI 31-207: Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel
˗ AFI 32-1065: Grounding Systems
˗ AFI 36-2201: Air Force Training Program
˗ AFI 36-2406: Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems
˗ AFI 36-2501: Officer Promotions and Selective Continuation
˗ AFI 36-2502: Airman Promotion Program
˗ AFI 48-148: Ionizing Radiation Protection
˗ AFI 63-101: Operations of Capabilities Based Acquisition System
˗ AFI 63-125: Nuclear Certification Program
˗ AFI 90-201: Inspector General Activities
˗ AFI 91-101: Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program
˗ AFI 91-102: Nuclear Weapon System Safety Studies, Operational Safety Reviews, And Safety Rules
˗ AFI 91-103: Air Force Nuclear Safety Design Certification Program
˗ AFI 91-104: Nuclear Surety Tamper Control and Detection Programs
˗ AFI 91-105: Critical Components
˗ AFI 91-106: Unauthorized Launch, Threat Mitigation, and Launch Action Studies
˗ AFI 91-107: Design, Evaluation, Troubleshooting, and Maintenance Criteria for Nuclear Weapon
                Systems

                                               27
˗ AFI 91-108: Air Force Nuclear Weapons Intrinsic Radiation And 91(b) Radioactive Material Safety
              Program
˗ AFI 91-111: Safety Rules For US Strategic Bomber Aircraft
˗ AFI 91-112: Safety Rules For US/NATO Strike Fighters
˗ AFI 91-114: Safety Rules For The Intercontinental Ballistic Missile Systems
˗ AFI 91-115: Safety Rules For Nuclear Logistics Transport By The Prime Nuclear Airlift Force
˗ AFI 91-116: Safety Rules For Long-Term Storage And Maintenance Operations For Nuclear
              Weapons
˗ AFI 91-202: The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program
- AFI 91-203: Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction
˗ AFI 91-204: Safety Investigations and Reports
˗ AFI 91-302: Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
              (AFOSH) Standards
˗ AFJI 11-204: Operational Procedures for Aircraft Carrying Hazardous Materials
- AFMAN 31-108: The Air Force Nuclear Weapon Security Manual
˗ AFMAN 91-118: Safety Design And Evaluation Criteria For Nuclear Weapon Systems
˗ AFMAN 91-119: Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems Software
˗ AFMAN 91-201: Explosives Safety Standards
˗ AFMAN10-3902: Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program (PRP)
˗ AFPAM 36-2506: You and Your Promotions – The Air Force Officer Promotion Program
˗ AFPD 21-1: Air & Space Maintenance
˗ AFPD 21-2: Munitions
˗ AFPD 91-1: Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety
˗ AFPD 91-2: Safety Programs
˗ AFPD 91-3: Occupational Safety and Health

1.2. Conventional Weapon System Technical Orders
˗ 00-5-1: AF Technical Order System
˗ 00-20-1: Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policies and Procedure
- 00-20-2: Maintenance Data Documentation
- 00-20-3: Maintenance Processing of Repairable Property and Repair Cycle Asset Control System
˗ 00-20-7: Inspection System, Documentation and Status Reporting
˗ 00-25-172: Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding
˗ 00-5-15: Air Force Time Compliance Technical Order Process
˗ 11-1-38: Positioning and Tie Down Procedures, Non Nuclear Munitions
˗ 11A-1-10: Air Force Munitions Surveillance Program and Serviceability Procedures
˗ 11A-1-33: Handling and Maintenance of Explosives Loaded Aircraft
˗ 11A-1-46: Fire Fighting Guidance, Transportation and Storage Management Data
˗ 11A-1-60: General Instruction – Inspection of Reusable Munitions Containers and Scrap Material
             Generated from Items Exposed To or Containing XPL
˗ 11A-1-63: Munitions Assembly Procedures
˗ 1X-1XX-33-1-2: Non-nuclear Munitions Loading Procedures for various aircraft
˗ 1X-1XX-33-1-4: Integrated Combat Turnaround Procedures for various aircraft
˗ 35-1-30 USAF: Serial Number Registration System for Selected Support Equipment

1.3. ICBM Technical Orders
˗ 21M-LGM30G series: Minuteman ICBMs
˗ Contractor Manuals: Space Systems

1.4. Nuclear Weapons Technical Orders


                                                 28
˗ CJCSI 3150.04: Nuclear Weapons Stockpile Logistics Management and Nuclear Weapons Reports
                  Under the Joint Reporting Structure
- CJCSI 3263.05: Department of Defense Nuclear Weapons Technical Inspection System
- DoD 3150.8-M: Nuclear Weapons Accident Response Procedures
- Master Nuclear Certification List (https://wwwmil.nwc.kirtland.af.mil/mncl/index.cfm)
- 0-1-11N: Numerical Index to Joint Nuclear Weapons Publications System
- 0-1-11N-1: Numerical Index to Joint Nuclear Weapons Publications (Air Force Supplement)
- 11N-20-7: Nuclear Safety Criteria
- 11N-20-11: General Firefighting Guidance
- 11N-3150-8-1: USAF DIAMONDS Policy and Procedures"
- 11N-35-7: Inspection Record Card
- 11N-35-50: Weapons Information Report
- 11N-35-51: General Instructions Applicable to Nuclear Weapons
- 11N-45-51X: Transportation of Nuclear Weapons Material
- 11N-5-1: Unsatisfactory Reports
- 11N-50-X: Series Control Procedures and Related Equipment
- 11N-100-X: Series Supply and Management of Nuclear Weapons and Components
- 11N-H-61: Special Handling Equipment
- 11N-T-55A: Miscellaneous Special Test Equipment
1.5. Tactics, Techniques and Procedures.
- TTP 3-3. Munitions & Missile Maintenance: https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-LG-AC-07/default.aspx

2. FOLLOW-ON UNIT TRAINING. Designed to teach new officers how concepts presented at
technical school instruction are applied at the unit level.

2.1. Concept. Ideally officers should complete AETC formal training prior to unit training. The intent
of follow-on unit training is to provide a local training plan to familiarize officers with unit specific
procedures and operations. Follow-on unit training consists of the core tasks identified by the unit from
the tasks listed table 7. Officers will not be upgraded to a fully qualified level until satisfactorily
completing both AETC formal training and CFETP core tasks. One successful occurrence does not
necessarily constitute understanding of the training objective, but it should provide the individual with a
basic understanding of subject areas.

2.2. Training Plan. The instructional design for unit level training is determined locally. Appropriate
lesson plans, support materials, and instructor guidance are the responsibility of each unit. Unit
training may include work center and field visits, task observations, classroom instruction, self-study,
supervisor/commander interaction to meet training objectives. Squadrons/Groups should produce a
local Maintenance Officer Training Plan (MOTP) to standardize and formalize follow-on unit training
processes.

2.3. Training Period. The unit must structure and conduct training to ensure the officer completes all
training within 24 months (may be extended to 36 months for ARC) after assignment to a 21M position.

2.4. Familiarization Training and Workcenter Visits. Officers must be scheduled to observe
familiarization tasks from start to finish. Supervisors will ensure pre-task, task, and post-task actions are
included. Training may be conducted concurrent with team training operations or during routine
maintenance operations. Instructors/supervisors will ensure officers understand the fundamentals of each
task, why it is performed, associated hazards, and the overall system impact. Unit training should also
include work center visits. Visits consist of tours of all maintenance work centers and key support
agencies as determined by the commander/supervisor.

                                                     29
2.5. Training Documentation. Document the officer’s training in TBA or approved electronic training
record.

2.5.1. Supervisors will review training progress with trainees at an initial interview within 60 days
of the trainee’s assignment to the unit. During the interview the supervisor and trainee will discuss
core task requirements (identified by an *) and explain that core tasks must be completed within 24
months after assignment to a 21M position. The initial review shall be documented.

2.5.2. Supervisors will identify tasks, in addition to the core tasks, the trainee will be required to
complete, as some installations may not have all the required equipment, supervisors will identify core
tasks able to be completed in TBA. Every effort should be made by the trainee to meet the core task
requirement when able (TDY, loaner equipment, etc.).

2.5.3. For the Basic Certification Training Task List, supervisors will review training progress with
trainees quarterly. Supervisors will conduct the review on this basis until all items are complete.
Documentation of this review will be in TBA.

2.5.4. Grandfathered Record Documentation. Document Grandfathered tasks/training via journal entries.




                                                  30
3. 21M Maintenance Officer Training Task List

                             This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)         Initials (Written)    SSAN (Last 4 only)
Printed Name Of Supervisor (Last, First, Middle Initial) and Written Initials
N/I                                                N/I

N/I                                                N/I
N/I                                                N/I

3.1. 21M3x Training Task List.

 Munitions, Missile & Space Maintenance Officer Training Task List

 Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                               Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                                     Date
                                                                                Initials  Initials




 Requirements for the Basic Certification:
 Complete MOFC, & one of the following (CMOC, IMOC or NMOC).
  Record in Attachment 1

 21M3x Core Requirements:


 Follow-on Unit Training Task List

 A1. Training Plan Review (AFI 36-2201)
 *A1.1. Read, then review CFETP with supervisor within 60 days of
  assignment
 A1.1.1 Review AFTTP 3-3. Munitions and Missile Maintenance
  (https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-LG-AC-07/default.aspx )
 *A1.1.2 Understand purpose of TTPs
 *A1.1.3. Describe usage of TTPs
 *A1.1.4. Describe Agile Combat Support (ACS) six master processes

 A1.2. Maintenance Leadership Fundamentals
 A1.2.1 Understand fundamentals of
 *A1.2.2. Maintenance discipline
 *A1.2.3. Maintenance culture
 A1.2.4. Maintenance basics


                                                   31
Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                    Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                         Date
                                                                    Initials  Initials
A1.2.5. Understand fundamentals of:
*A1.2.5.1. Compliance with technical data, instruction and policy
A1.2.5.2. Applicable data collection systems (IMDS, CAS, ETIMS,
AMST, DIAMONDS, etc)
A1.2.5.3. Emergency Action Checklists (EACs)
A1.2.5.4. Vehicle allowances and management
A1.2.5.5. Management of nuclear certified vehicles
A1.2.5.6. MICAP verification reporting procedures
A1.2.5.7. Equipment allowances
A1.2.5.8. DIFM process
A1.2.5.9. Memorandum of Agreements
A1.2.5.10. IGESP
* A1.2.5.11. Tool control
A1.2.5.12. PMEL/TMDE
A1.2.5.13. Custodian Authorization/Custodian Receipt Listing
(CA/CRL)

A1.3. Maintenance Training
*A1.3.1. Plans, scheduling and documentation
A1.3.2. Review flying schedule to determine munitions/armament
requirements
A1.3.3. Observe maintenance and scheduling procedure
A1.3.4. Attend appropriate maintenance production scheduling
meetings

A1.4. Maintenance Manpower
A1.4.1. Understand fundamentals of
A1.4.1.1 Logistics Composite Model (LCOM)
A1.4.1.2. Unit Manning Document (UMD)
A1.4.1.3. SORTS/ART/DRRS
A1.4.1.4. Unit Personnel Management Roster (UPMR)
A1.4.1.5. Local EPR/OPR and awards/decorations process
*A1.4.2. Ancillary training requirements
A1.4.3. Deployment manpower
A1.4.4. Global force management
A1.4.5. Air Expeditionary Force (AEF)
A1.4.6. Unit Type Codes (UTCs)

A1.5. Munitions and Missile Maintenance Training
*A1.5.1. Review officer/enlisted master training plans


                                                 32
Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                            Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                                 Date
                                                                            Initials  Initials
*A1.5.2. Understand officer/enlisted TBA process
A1.5.3. Types of training
* A1.5.3.1. Understand unit officer/enlisted 5/7/9 level upgrade training
process
* A1.5.3.2. Understand unit qualification/On-the-Job training
requirements
A1.5.4.Managing training
A1.5.4.1. Understand unit scheduling training process
A1.5.4.2. Review unit Special Certification Roster (SCR) (AFI 21-101)
A1.5.4.3. Understand unit Special Experience Identifiers (SEI)
requirements
A1.5.4.4. Attend & understand requirements for unit monthly Status of
Training (SOT) meeting

A1.6. Munitions Safety Programs
*A1.6.1. Understand Operational Risk Management (ORM) concepts
* A1.6.2. Understand Mishap Reporting procedures
A1.6.3. Weapon safety
A1.6.3.1. Explosive safety
*A1.6.3.1.1. Review local explosive safety site plan
A1.6.3.1.1.1. Review primary and alternate explosive routes
A1.6.3.1.2. Understand licensed explosive storage locations
A1.6.3.1.3. Review local explosive safety deviations and
waiver/minimum requirements
A1.6.3.1.4. Understand forward/side firing ordinance
A1.6.3.1.5. Understand all local explosive hazards
A1.6.3.1.6. Understand static grounding requirements
A1.6.3.1.7. Understand lightning protection program
A1.6.3.1.8. Understand storage and transportation compatibility issues
A1.6.4. Missile safety
A1.6.4.1. Understand the tenets of the local missile safety program
A1.6.4.2. Understand unique hazards associated with missile operations
A1.6.5. Nuclear surety
A1.6.5.1. Complete local nuclear surety training
A1.6.5.2. Understand nuclear certification process
*A1.6.5.2.1. Be familiar with Nuclear Certified Equipment (NCE)
*A1.6.5.2.2. Review Master Nuclear Certification listing (MNCL)
A1.6.5.3. Understand NWRM procedures/accountability
A1.6.5.4. Comprehend Weapon System Safety Rules (WSSRs)
*A1.6.5.5. Understand DULL SWORD reporting


                                                  33
Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                          Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                               Date
                                                                          Initials  Initials
A1.6.5.6. Understand unit radiation safety program
A1.6.5.7. Understand local key and lock management system
A1.6.6. Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standards, (AFI
91-203)
A1.6.6.1. Review:
A1.6.6.1.1. Job Safety Training Outline (JSTO)
A1.6.6.1.2. AF Form 55
A1.6.6.1.3. Applicable state, local and host nation safety requirements
A1.6.6.1.4. HAZCOM training program
A1.6.6.1.5. Environmental programs
A1.6.6.1.5.1. Understand fundamentals of
A1.6.6.1.5.1.1. Hazardous material spill response procedures
A1.6.6.1.5.1.2. Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)
A1.6.6.1.5.1.3. Hazardous chemical used locally
A1.6.6.1.5.1.4. HAZMART pharmacy process
A1.6.6.1.5.1.5. Waste storage and disposal procedures

A1.7. Security Clearance and Personnel Reliability Program
A1.7.1. Understand security clearances are matched to duty positions on
the UMD
A1.7.2. Understand Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS)
A1.7.3. Understand special access program concept (AFI 16-701)
A1.7.4. Understand unit PRP positions according to the UMD
A1.7.5. Understand PRP Certifying Official (CO) responsibilities
A1.7.6. Understand types of PRP certifications
A1.7.7. Understand PRP suspension/decertification
A1.7.8. Understand security violation reporting procedures

A1.8. Financial Management
A1.8.1. Understand players involved in process
A1.8.2. Understand Resource Advisors (RAs) role
A1.8.3. Understand fundamentals of:
*A1.8.3.1. Budget process
* A1.8.3.2. Fiscal cycle
*A1.8.3.3. Budget activity codes (colors of money)
A1.8.3.4. Alternative sources of money
A1.8.3.5. GPC program
*A1.8.3.6. Personal travel requirements
A1.8.3.7. Defense Travel System (DTS)


                                                  34
 Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                       Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                             Date
                                                                        Initials  Initials
 A1.9. Infrastructure
 A1.9.1. Understand fundamentals of
 A1.9.1.1. Facility management
 A1.9.1.2. Working relationships between CE, host nation, and/or host
 unit
 A1.9.1.3. Communication requirements
 A1.9.1.4. Hoists and cranes
 A1.9.1.5. Lightning Protection System (LPS)
 A1.9.1.6. Roads, explosive routes and load constraints
 A1.9.1.7. Vault and safe requirements
 A1.9.1.8. Risk Assessment Codes (RACs)

 A1.10. Evaluation, Inspection, and Exercise Programs
 A1.10.1. Understand types of
 A1.10.1.1. Evaluations (SAV, LCAP, NSSAV, QA, etc)
 *A1.10.1.2. Inspections (NSI, UCI, ORI, NORI, etc)
 *A1.10.1.3. Exercises (ORE, CAPEX, etc)

3.2. 21M3x Training Task List.

 Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                       Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                             Date
                                                                        Initials  Initials


 21M3A Requirements
 A1.11. Readying the Force
 A1.11.1. Munitions requirements and positioning
 A1.11.1.1. Understand fundamentals of
 A1.11.1.1.1. Global asset positioning (Starter/swing stocks, theater
 stocks, fly away)
 A1.11.1.1.2. Munitions movement plan
 A1.11.1.1.3. Unit allocation process
 A1.11. 2 Understand the following mission elements
 A1.11. 2.1. Accountability
 *A1.11.2.2. DOC statement
 *A1.11.2.3 Unit Committed Munitions List (UCML)
 A1.11.2.4 Test and Training Munitions Listing (TTML)
 A1.11.2.5 Standard configuration load

 A1.12. Conventional Munitions Allocation/Accountability



                                                   35
Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                         Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                              Date
                                                                         Initials  Initials
*A1.12. 1. Visit MASO and discuss responsibilities
*A1.12.2. Understand all local munitions supply points and current
status/condition
A1.12.3. Gain access, review and understand key munitions
management reports
*A1.12.4. Obtain CAS access, review, understand and apply key
munitions management reports
A1.12.5. Understand munitions sortie generation procedures
*A1.12.6. Understand munitions forecasting/scheduling procedures
*A1.12.7. Understand different types of munitions inventory and
procedures for inventorying munitions
A1.12.8. Understand custody account process
*A1.12.9. Understand capability and application of TMRS, CAS,
AMST, MC2 and SharePoint as applicable
A1.12.10. Mission requirements
*A1.12.11. Receive unit mission briefing
A1.12.12. Understand local EWO requirements
*A1.12.13. Understand local requirements to support AEF concept
*A1.12.14. Understand local deployment plans/process
*A1.12.15. Review unit war and exercise plans

*A1.13. Complete AFCOMAC CAPP Course

A1.14 Preparing the Battlespace
A1.14.1. Understand fundamentals of
A1. 14.1.1. OPLANS/CONPLANS
A1.14.1.2. Time Phased Force Deployment Data (TPFDD)
A1.14.1.3. Munitions Employment Plans (MEP)
A1.14.1.4. Site survey techniques
A1.14.1.5. Generation planning
A1.14.1.6. Host nation support
A1.14.2. Conventional munitions/missiles
A1.14.2.1. Describe fuzing and firing sequence of weapons required by
local unit
*A1.14.2.2. Understand munitions build-up requirements/plans
A1.14.2.3. Understand local munitions master storage plan
A1.14.2.4. Understand federal/state/local and host nation requirements
for transporting munitions-to include local hold points requirements
A1. 14.2.5. Understand munitions flight line delivery requirements
A1. 14.2.6. Review applicable maintenance directives, references and
instructions, and local supplements/OI’s


                                                36
Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                        Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                             Date
                                                                        Initials  Initials
A1.14.2.7. Understand War Consumable Distribution Objectives
(WCDO)

A1.15. Understand Controlled Item Codes
*A1. 15.1. Understand munitions/missiles hazard class division and
compatibility rules
*A1.15.2. Understand fire response procedures
*A1.15.3. Understand adverse weather procedures
A1.15.4. Understand munitions/missiles security requirements
A1. A15.5. Controlled/restricted areas
A1.15.6. DOD risk categories
A1.15.7. IDS requirements
A1.15.8. Classified munitions handling/access

A1.16. Positioning the Force
A1.16.1. Understand the fundamentals of
A1.16.2. Installation Deployment Plan (IDP)
A1.16.3. Mobilization techniques
A1.16.4. Deployment Schedule of Events (DSOE)
A1.16.6. Personnel deployment function role
A1.16.7. Cargo deployment function role
A1.16.8. Advanced Echelon (ADVON) role

A1.17. Employing the Force
A1.A17.1 Understand the fundamentals of :
A1.17.1.1 Munitions Reports (MUREP)
A1.17.1.2 Wing mission planning cells
A1.17.1.3 Air Tasking Orders (ATO)
A1.17.1.4 Sortie generation techniques
A1.17.1.5. Employing armament/flight line operations

A1.18. Aircraft Armament
*A1.18.1. Alternate Mission Equipment (AME) management
A1.18.2. Understand function and maintenance requirements of
assigned racks, adapters and pylons
*A1.18.3. Special Purpose Recoverables Authorized Maintenance
(SPRAM) management
A1.18.4. Normally Installed Equipment (NIE) management
A1.18.5. Understand plans & scheduling requirements and processes for
AME, NIE and SPRAM


                                                37
Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                         Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                              Date
                                                                         Initials  Initials
A1.18.6. Understand how AME, NIE and SPRAM is scheduled and
tracked in MIS
A1.18.7 Weapons support equipment (ie UALS, LALS, ALA, etc)
A1.18.8. Aircraft and armament system test equipment
*A1.18.9. Understand Locally Manufactured Equipment (LME)
guidance
A1.18.10. Understand aircraft stores management systems
A1.18.11. Understand two-person concept processes
A1.18.12. Be familiar with weapons loading tasks
A1.18.11. Understand operation/maintenance concept of assigned gun
systems
A1.18.12. Understand local flight line maintenance operations
A1.18.12.1. Arm/de-arm area
A1.18.12.2. Hot cargo pad
A1.18.12.3. Aircraft separation requirements
A1.18.12.4. FOD program
A1.18.12.5. Explain aircraft parking requirements and clear zones
A1.18.12.6. Assist in aircraft launch and recovery
A1.18.12.7. Identify location of cartridges, squibs, initiators on an
aircraft
A1.18.12.8. Understand weapons expediter responsibilities and role of
weapons personnel in maintaining munitions accountability and
reconciliation procedures
A1.18.12. 9. Explain allowable maintenance for weapons loaded aircraft
A1.18.12.10. Explain hung bomb/hot gun process
A1.18.12.11. Observe local MDS specific weapons/munitions upload,
testing, and download
A1.18.12.12. Weapons standardization section
A1.18.12.12.1.. Be familiar with Wing Weapons Manager
duties/responsibilities
A1.18.12.12.2. Be familiar with loading standardization crew and
squadron lead crew duties/responsibilities
A1.18.12.12.3. Be familiar with load crew certification/qualification
process
A1.18.12.12.4. Be familiar with Task Assignment List (TAL)
A1.18.12.12.5. Be familiar with concurrent servicing procedures

A1.19. Sustaining the Force
A1.19.1 Read and understand Attachment 2 Section V of AFTTP 3-3.
Munitions and Missile Maintenance




                                                38
 Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                          Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                                Date
                                                                           Initials  Initials
 A1.20. Redeploying and Recovering the Force
 A1.20.1. Read and understand Attachment 2 Section V of AFTTP 3-3.
 Munitions and Missile Maintenance

3.3. 21M3N Training Task List.

 Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                          Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                                Date
                                                                           Initials  Initials


 21M3N Requirements:
 A1.21. Nuclear Maintenance (AFI 21-204, AFTTP 3-3 Attachments
 3 and 4, and Applicable 11N Series T.O.s)
 A1.21. 1. Understand maintenance requirements for all assigned
 weapons
 A1.21. 1.1. Observe Limited Life Component Exchange (LLCE)
 A1.21.1.2. Observe General Maintenance (GM) (T.O. 11N-35-51)
 A1.21.1.3. Observe mate/demate to rotary launcher/pylon
 A1.21.1.4. Observe warhead mate/demate
 A1.21.1.5. Observe reentry system (RS) / vehicle (RV) recycle
 A1.21.1.6. Parachute exchange
 *A1.21.1.7. Understand/execute key and lock procedures
 *A1.21.1.8. Qualification certification program
 A1.21.1.9. PAL code/recode
 A1.21.1.10. WS3 operations (ACO 80-6 if applicable)
 A1.21.1.11. Understand special security and storage requirements
 A1.21.1.12. Understand cruise missile test requirements
 A1.21.1.13. Review applicable security classification guidance
 *A1.21.1.14. Understand nuclear certified equipment (NCE) and Master
 Nuclear Certification List (MNCL)
 A1.21.1.15. Validate certification of representative unit equipment and
 facilities
 A1.21.1.16. Understand firefighting guidance (T.O. 11N-20-11)
 *A1.21.1.17. Be familiar with maintenance capability letter (MCL)
 A1.21.1.18. Review DoD nuclear weapons technical inspections graded
 areas and rating system (CJCSI 3263.05 and AFI 90-201)

 A1.22. Munitions Accountable Systems Officer (MASO) (AFI 21-
 203 and 11N-100-3150)
 A1.22.1. Use DIAMONDS
 A1.22.1.1. Describe security measures
 A1. 22.1.2. Gain access/use


                                                 39
Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                        Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                             Date
                                                                        Initials  Initials
A1.22.1.3. Process build sheet
A1.22. 1.4. Process Unsatisfactory Report (UR) (T.O. 11N-5-1)
A1.22. 1.5. Process Inspection Record Card (IRC) (T.O. 11N-35-7)
A1.22. 1.6. Process Weapon Information Report (WIR) (TO 11N-35-
50)
A1.22. 1.7. Process Status Change Report (SCR)
A1.22. 1.8. Process Weapon Status Report (WSR)
A1.22. 1.9. Process Container Asset Report (CAR)
A1.22. 1.10. Produce Location Inventory Listing (LIL)
A1.22. 1.11. Process Semiannual Inventory Report (SIR)
A1.22. 1.12. Process Quality Assurance Service Test (QAST) Status
Report (QSR)
A1.22. 1.13. Process Stockpile Emergency Verification (SEV)
A1.22.2. NOCM management
* A1.22.2.1. Describe MASO responsibilities
* A1.22.2.2. Participate in stockpile inventory
A1.22.2.3. Document control (supply document register)
A1.22.2.4. Stock control
A1.22.2.5. DOE major assemblies
A1.22.2.6. WR containers/bolsters
A1.22.2.7. Military Spares (MS)
A1.22.2.8. Base Spares (BS)
A1.22.2.9. Unit Spare Authorization Listing (USAL)
A1.22.2.10. Excess item reporting and disposition
A1.22.2.11. Requisitions
A1.22.2.12. Receipt of material, inspection and documentation
A1.22.2.13. Preparation/processing shipment documentation
A1.22.2.14. Prepare/process issue, turn-in, expenditure documentation
A1.22.2.15. Custodian accounting procedures
A1.22.2.16. Accounting for TCTO/retrofit kits
A1.22.2.17. Inventory documentation
A1.22.2.18. Accounting for lost, damaged, destroyed property
A1.22.2.19. Inventory adjustments
A1.22.2.20. Audits of accounts
A1.22.3. Logistics movements
A1.22.3.1. Use Nuclear Ordnance Shipping Schedule (NOSS)
A1.22.3.2. Process Special Assignment Airlift Mission (SAAM) set up
message
A1.22.3.3. Prepare/conduct SAAM briefing



                                                40
 Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                          Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                                Date
                                                                           Initials  Initials
 A1.22.3.4. Prepare/conduct courier briefing
 A1.22.3.5. Prepare/use DD Form 1911, Material Courier Receipt
 * A1.22.3.6. Custody transfer process (AF Form 504, Weapons Custody
 Transfer Document)
 A1.22.3.7. DOE SST/SGT shipment coordination

3.4. 21M3I Training Task List.

 When certification requirements are completed record in Attachment 1

 21M3I Requirements:                                                       Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                                Date
                                                                           Initials  Initials
  A1.23. ICBM Roles and Responsibilities
  A1.23.1. Understand roles and responsibilities of:
  A1.23.1.1. USSTRATCOM
  A1.23.1.2. Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC)
  A1.23.1.3. 20th AF
  A1.23.1.4. 526 ICBM Systems Group
  A1.23.1.5. 309th Missile Maintenance Group

  A1.24. Deploying the Force
  A1.24 1. Understand the following:
  A1.24.1.1. Find-it-Fix-it maintenance concept
  A1.24.1.2. ICBM maintenance priorities
  A1.24.1.3. ICBM maintenance surge
  A1.24.1.4. Emergency War Order (EWO) generation

  A1.25. ICBM Familiarization
 *A1.25.1. Perform missile alert facility (MAF) and launch facility (LF)
  site visits
  A1.25.2. Observe power systems tasks
  A1.25.2.1. LF
  A1.25.2.2. MAF
  A1.25.3. Observe AVE tasks
  A1.25.4. Observe ECS tasks
  A1. 25.4.1. LF
  A1.25.4.2. MAF
  A1.25.5. Observe Command, Control and Communications (C3) task
  A1.25.6. Observe periodic maintenance
  A1.25.6.1. LF


                                                  41
Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                         Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                              Date
                                                                         Initials  Initials
 A1.25.6.2. MAF
 A1.25.7. Observe security system checkout
 A1.25.8. Observe category 1 movement briefing
 A1.25.9. Observe missile handling operations and complete missile
 downstage convoy commander orientation
 A1. 25.10. Observe shop maintenance
 A1.25.11. Observe additional tasks as required by local training plan
 A1.25.12. Tour base trainers and proof load test facility
 A1.25.13. Complete codes familiarization training
* A1.25.14. Understand field dispatching procedures
* A1.25.15. Describe vehicle issue/turn-in procedures
* A1.25.16. Describe equipment issue/turn-in procedures and
 processing for maintenance
 A1.25.17. Consequence Management Team (CMT) familiarization

 A1.26. Space launch Maintenance Familiarization
*A1.26.1. Understand hazardous chemicals used during vehicle
 processing
 A1.26.2. Understand unit space environmental compliance program
*A1.26.3. Understand national space organization and policy
 A1.26.4. Complete space support course
 A1.26.5. Complete local contracting/QAE training
 A1.26.6. Understand operational concept of EELV
 A1.26.7. Understand heritage and EELV rocket systems to include:
 A1.26.7.1. Vehicle propulsion
 A1.26.7.2. Liquid/solid propellant engines
 A1.268.7.3. Thrust vectoring
 A1.26.7.4. Navigation/guidance systems
 A1.26.7.5. Booster/ordnance
 A1.26.7.6. Telemetry
 A1.26.7.7. Flight safety/termination
 A1.26.7.8. Understand spacecraft systems/components to include:
 A1.26.7.8.1. Propulsion systems
 A1.26.7.8.2. Satellite processing
 A1.26.7.8.3. Payload fairings
 A1.26.8. Understand vehicle processing facilities/support systems:
 A1.26.8.1. Power systems
 A1.26.8.2. Environmental control systems
 A1.26.8.3. Area warning systems
 A1.26.8.4. Hazardous storage areas

                                                 42
 Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                        Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                              Date
                                                                         Initials  Initials
  A1.26.8.5. Umbilical/mobile service tower
  A1.26.8.6. Cranes/winches
  A1.26.9. Understand non-destructive inspections
 * A1.26.10. Understand processing flows and critical tasks
 * A1.26.11. Understand launch vehicle processing safety and security
  A1.26.12. Complete Spacelift Course (in development)

  A1.27. Space Acquisition
  A1.27.1. Complete space support course
  A1.27.2. Complete SMC business of space course
  A1.27.3. Complete ACQ 101
  A1.27.4. Complete LOG 101
  A1.27.5. Complete LOG 102
  A1.27.6. Complete other acquisition courses in coordination with SMC
  training manager

  A1.28. Space System Sustainment
  A1.28.1. Complete Space Support Course
  A1.28.2. Complete QAE Course

  A1.29. Space or Missile Test
  A1.29.1. Complete ACQ 101
  A1.29.2. Complete TST 101
  A1.29.3. Complete Space Support Course for space test

  A1.30. Complete any of the following core 21Mxx unit level jobs:
  A1.30.1. Section OIC
  A1.30.2. Flight Commander
  A1.30.3. MASO

3.5. Senior Certification Requirements

 When certification requirements are completed record in Attachment 1

 Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                        Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                              Date
                                                                         Initials  Initials
  A2.1. In addition to primary shred, complete one of the following
  courses:
  A2.1.1. 21M Bridge Course (CMOC/IMOC/NMOC) , MOIC or
  AMMOS
  A2.2 Has held any of the following duty positions (N/A for ARC)

                                                 43
 Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                         Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                               Date
                                                                          Initials  Initials
  A2.2.1. Maintenance Flight Commander
  A2.2.2. AMU OIC
  A2.2.3. QA
  A2.2.4. Depot Maintenance
  A2.2.5. NAF, MAJCOM, or Air Staff
  A2.2.6. MOO
  A2.3. Successfully complete 7 years in the specialty (AFI 36-2903)

3.6. Master Certification Requirements

 When certification requirements are completed record in Attachment 1

 Supervisor’s Initial & Follow-up Training Review                         Trainee Supervisor
                                                                                               Date
                                                                          Initials  Initials
 A3.1. Has held any two of the following duty positions (One for ARC)
 A3.1.1. MOIC/AMMOS Instructor
 A3.1.2. Command
 A3.1.3. NAF, MAJCOM, or Air Staff
 A3.1.4. Depot Level Maintenance
 A3.1.5. Acquisition Duty
 A3.1.6. Joint Logistics Duty
 A3.1.7. Deputy Maintenance/Logistics Group Commander
 A3.1.8. Other Logistics AFSC (21A or 21R)

 A3.2. Successful completion of 15 years in the specialty (AFI 36-2903)




                                                 44
PART II
Section D - MAJCOM UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS. None Identified


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE

OFFICIAL




                                        JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                        DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support




                                       45
Attachment 1
                             Training Completion Certification Signatures

The following table certifies which Munitions and Missile Maintenance Officer training courses have been
completed during initial skills training and the certification levels attained by
                                      ,
                             (Rank)       (Last, First, Middle Initial)

                    Course                                            Certification

   Initial Skills Training                  Insert Squadron Commanders Signature Block

   MOFC

   CMOC, IMOC, or NMOC

   (Circle Courses Completed)

   21M3 Certification                       Insert Squadron Commander’s Signature Block




   Senior Certification                     Insert Squadron Commander’s Signature Block




   Master Certification                     Insert Group or Squadron Commander’s Signature Block




OPR: 363 TRS/TRR (Mr. Jason M. Durst), DSN 736-2996
Approved by: Col Geoffrey Bacon, USAF/A4LW


                                                    46
Attachment 2

                               CTS Qualitative Requirements

                                 PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                    Scale
                             Definition: The individual
                    Value
                             Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to
                       1     do most of the task. (Extremely Limited)
                             Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts.
Task Performance       2
                             (Partially Proficient)
     Levels                  Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed
                       3
                             work. (Competent)
                             Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show
                       4
                             others how to do the task. (Highly Proficient)
                             Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task.
                       a
                             (Nomenclature)
                             Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task.
                       b
*Task Knowledge              (Procedures)
     Levels                  Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each
                       c
                             step is needed. (Operating Principles)
                             Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.
                       d
                             (Advanced Theory)
                      A      Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
                             Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles
   **Subject          B
                             about the subject. (Principles)
   Knowledge                 Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the
    Levels            C
                             subject. (Analysis)
                             Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the
                      D
                             subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to
define a level of knowledge for a specific task. (Example: b and 1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject
not directly related to any specific task, or for a subject common to several tasks.
- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is
provided in the course or CDC.
X This make is used alone in course columns to show that training required but not given due to
limitations in resources.
 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war
time.




                                              47
Attachment 3

                COURSE TRAINING STANDARD (CTS)
MUNITIONS AND MISSILE MAINTENANCE OFFICER FUNDAMENTALS COURSE
                             (MOFC)
                         J3OQR21M1 0F1C

                           Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level
1. SUPPORT EQUIPMENT                                                                     -
1.1. Types and uses of support equipment/vehicles                                        A
1.2. Use and application of common handtools                                             B
1.3. Application of Tool Accountability Systems and Composite Tool Kits (CTKs)           B
1.4. Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) related to munitions             A
     maintenance requirements
1.5. Requirements for nuclear certification status of equipment                          A
1.6. Concept of support equipment decentralization, software, vehicles, and test         A
     equipment
1.7. General and special purpose vehicles                                                A
1.8. Maintenance Forms                                                                    -
1.8.1. Purpose                                                                           A
1.8.2. Symbols                                                                           A
1.8.3. Accomplish documentation                                                          2b
2. AIR FORCE PUBLICATION SYSTEMS                                                          -
2.1. Use and application of Technical Orders (TO)                                        B
2.2. Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO) process                                     B
2.3. Current and projected digital TO systems                                            A
2.4. Maintenance directives to include Air Force Instructions (AFIs) and Department of   B
     Defense Instructions (DODIs)
3. PERSONNEL                                                                             -
3.1. Munitions and missile maintenance officer career path                               A
3.2. Munitions, Missile and Maintenance Officer Career Field Education and Training      A
     Plan (CFETP)
3.3. Enlisted CFETP                                                                      A
3.4. Munitions and missile maintenance training process                                  A
3.5. Certification/qualification training for nuclear maintenance and handling           A
3.6. Allocation of unit manpower requirements (UPMR/UMD)                                 A
3.7. Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) concept                                     A
3.8. Elements of the resource management system                                          A
4. DELIVERY SYSTEMS                                                                      -
4.1. Airframe                                                                            -
4.1.1. Basic principles of aerodynamics                                                  A
4.1.2. Aircraft structural materials                                                     A
4.2. Aircraft Accessories                                                                -
4.2.1. Hydraulic/pneudraulic systems                                                     A
4.2.2. Fuel systems                                                                      A


                                             48
4.2.3. Air conditioning and pressurization systems                                       A
4.2.4. Electrical systems                                                                A
4.2.5. Fire detection and suppression system                                             A
4.2.6. Egress systems                                                                    A
4.3. Avionics                                                                            -
4.3.1. Weapon control/bomb navigation system                                             B
4.3.2. Communication/navigation                                                          A
4.3.3. Sensors and radar systems                                                         A
4.3.4. Electronic warfare systems                                                        A
4.4. Munitions                                                                           -
4.4.1. Gun systems                                                                       A
4.4.2. Release systems                                                                   A
4.4.3. Types of munitions                                                                A
4.5. Propulsion                                                                          A
4.6. ICBM                                                                                A
5. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION                                                              -
5.1. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) directives as applied to munitions and        A
     missile maintenance and the role of the EPA in the safeguarding and production of
     hazardous waste
5.2. Hazardous waste minimization techniques                                             A
5.3. Precautions and handling procedures applicable to hazardous chemicals               A
5.4. EPA requirements specifically related to nuclear weapons maintenance                A
6. LOGISTICS                                                                             -
6.1. LRS organizational structures                                                       A
6.2. Supply procedures pertaining to maintenance                                         B
6.3. Depot Level Repairable (DLR) process                                                B
6.4. Due In From Maintenance (DIFM) process and the maintenance and supply interface     B
6.5. Custodian Account/Custody Receipts Listing (CA/CRL)                                 B
6.6. Positive Inventory Control of Nuclear Weapons Related Material (NWRM)               A
6.7. Functions of base-level logistics plans                                             A
7. SAFETY                                                                                -
7.1. Principles of the Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH)                  B
7.2. Principles of Air Force mishap prevention                                           B
7.3. Unsafe situations that may be encountered in maintenance                            B
7.4. General Principles of Flight Line Safety                                            B
7.5. Purpose and elements of the AFI 91-1XX series (Weapons Systems Safety Rules)        A
7.6. Principles of explosive site planning                                               B
7.7. Principles of proper storage and compatibility                                      B
7.8. Requirements for transportation of conventional munitions                           B
7.9. Reporting and response procedures for explosive/missile mishaps and high accident   B
     potential (HAP)
7.10. Firefighting guidance                                                              A
7.11. Radiation safety                                                                   A




                                            49
7.12. Leadership Responsibilities                                                     -
7.12.1. Principles                                                                    B
7.12.2. Risk Management (RM)                                                          A
7.12.3. Static ground and lightning protection                                        B
7.12.4. Hazardous waste management functions and responsibilities                     B
7.13. Ground safety program                                                           A
7.14. Weapons safety (explosive safety) program                                       A
8. PROGRAMS                                                                           -
8.1. Air Force preventive maintenance programs                                        B
8.2. Air Force inspection program                                                     A
8.3. Types of treaties effecting munitions                                            A
8.4. Quality Assurance (QA) program                                                   B
8.5. Objectives of the Foreign Object Damage (FOD) prevention program                 B
8.6. Facility management principles                                                   A
9. ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS                                                         -
9.1. Functions and responsibilities of the MAJCOMs and NAFs                           A
9.2. NATO, USAFE, and MUNSS organizations, interface and responsibilities             A
9.3. Functions and responsibilities of Air Force Sustainment Center (AFSC)            A
9.4. Functions and responsibilities of the Air Armament Center (AAC)                  A
9.5. Functions and responsibilities of the Air Force Safety Center (AFSEC)            A
9.6. Structural composition of a typical fighter wing                                 A
9.7. Structural composition of a typical bomber wing                                  A
9.8. Structural composition of a typical ICBM wing                                    A
9.9. Responsibilities of the Department of Defense (DoD)/Department of Energy (DOE)   A
     for nuclear weapons
9.10. COCOM roles and responsibilities                                                A
9.11. Duties and responsibilities of the MASO                                         A
10. STATUS AND MEASUREMENT                                                            -
10.1. Current and projected Maintenance Data Collection (MDC) systems                 B
10.2. Munitions maintenance indicators                                                B
10.3. Purpose and uses of Status of Resources and Training Systems (SORTS/ART)        A
      reports
10.4. Scheduling and maintenance priorities                                           B
11. SECURITY                                                                          -
11.1. Types and characteristics of security measures                                  A
11.2. Force Protection Conditions (FPCON) requirements as related to munitions        A
      maintenance
11.3. Use of force by Air Force personnel                                             A
11.4. The key and lock program                                                        A
11.5. Controlled/restricted areas                                                     A
11.6. Entry control point                                                             A
11.7. Escort duties                                                                   A
11.8. Munitions security                                                              A
11.9. Controlled Inventory Item Code (CIIC)/DoD risk codes                            A
12. TACTICS, TECHNIQUES, AND PROCEDURES (TTP)                                         B


                                           50
13. USAF NUCLEAR SURETY PROGRAM                                                            -
13.1. Protection of Nuclear Assets                                                         -
13.1.1. Personnel Reliability Program (PRP)                                                A
13.1.2. Tamper control                                                                     A
13.2. Nuclear Safety Standards                                                             -
13.2.1. USAF nuclear surety program                                                        A
13.2.2. DOD nuclear weapon system safety standards                                         A
13.3. Nuclear deficiency reporting                                                         A
13.4. Accident/Incident/Deficiency (AID) report                                            A
13.5. Nuclear certification process for equipment, software, vehicles and test equipment   A
13.6. Nuclear Surety Inspections (NSIs)                                                    A
14. NUCLEAR WEAPONS                                                                        -
14.1. Effects of nuclear weapons                                                           A
14.2. Types of nuclear weapons                                                             A
14.3. Nuclear weapons maintenances operations                                              A
14.4. Maintenance records and reports                                                      A
14.5. Operational and logistical movements of nuclear weapons                              A
14.6. Custody transfer                                                                     A
14.7. Storage and handling procedures                                                      A
14.8. Nuclear Accident Response Procedures (NARP)                                          A




                                              51
Attachment 4

                    COURSE TRAINING STANDARD (CTS)
                ICBM MAINTENANCE OFFICER COURSE (IMOC)
                     V3OBR21M1I 088B/V3OLR21M1I 088A

                          Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level
1.        ICBM Mission                                             B
2.        WEAPONS SYSTEM FAMILIARIZATION                           -
2.1.      Minuteman III Weapon System                              -
2.1.1.    Current deployment                                       A
2.1.2.    Characteristics                                          A
2.1.3.    Weapon system components                                 B
2.1.4.    Weapon system operation                                  B
2.2.      Missile Alert Facility (MAF) characteristics             B
2.3.      Launch Facility (LF) characteristics                     B
2.4.      Missile Command and Control Communications               -
2.4.1.    Communication systems                                    B
2.4.2.    Command and control function                             B
2.4.3.    Missile field interconnectivity                          B
2.5.      MAF/LF power systems                                     B
2.6.      Schematics                                               A
2.7.      MAF/LF Environmental Control Systems (ECS)               B
3.        ICBM MAINTENANCE OVERVIEW                                -
3.1.      ICBM maintenance directives                              B
3.2.      Maintenance requirements of ICBMs                        B
3.3.      Dispatching                                              -
3.3.1.    Process                                                  B
3.3.2.    Maintenance limitations                                  B
3.4.      ICBM Training Programs                                   -
3.4.1.    Work center/back shop                                    B
3.4.2.    Unit                                                     B
3.4.3.    Team training                                            B
3.5.      ICBM Life Extension Programs (LEPs)                      A
3.6.      Force Development Evaluation (FDE)                       B
3.7.      Fault analysis                                           B
3.8.      New START Treaty (NST) inspections                       B
3.9.      ICBM Test, Tools and Handling Equipment (TTHE)           B
3.10.     Site supervision/Team Chief responsibilities             B
3.11.     Maintenance Management Process                           -
3.11.1.   Maintenance data systems                                 B
3.11.2.   Plans and Scheduling processes                           B
3.11.3.   Production indicators                                    B
3.11.4.   Configuration control                                    B

                                           52
4.       SECURITY                                                                -
4.1.     Physical security                                                      B
4.2.     Security response                                                      B
4.3.     Secure transportation                                                  A
5.       SAFETY                                                                  -
5.1.     Safety equipment requirements                                          B
5.2.     ICBM mishap prevention                                                 B
6.       ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                              -
6.1.     Missile Combat Crew (MCC) responsibilities                             A
6.2.     Weapons custody transfer process                                       B
6.3.     Roles and responsibilities of each maintenance group flight            B
7.       CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS                                                  -
7.1.     Emergency War Order (EWO)                                              B
7.2.     Consequence Management Team (CMT)                                      B
7.3.     Missile Potential Hazard (MPH)                                         A
8.       MAINTENANCE OPERATING PRINCIPLES                                        -
8.1.     ICBM General Procedures                                                 -
8.1.1.   Perform LF entry and exit procedures                                   1b
8.1.2.   Perform LF emergency procedures                                        1b
8.1.3.   Perform pre/post dispatch                                              1b
8.2.     ICBM Work Center Specific Procedures                                    -
8.2.1.   ICBM code handling                                                     B
8.2.2.   LF tape load and startup                                               B
         Aerospace Vehicle Equipment (AVE)/Operational Ground Equipment (OGE)
8.2.3.                                                                          B
         startup
8.2.4.   Post Boost Vehicle remove and replacement                              B
8.2.5.   Guided Missile Maintenance Platform (GMMP) operations                  B
8.2.6.   Payload Transporter checkout                                           B
8.2.7.   Missile Handling requirements                                          B
8.2.8.   Power System Verification Box (PSVB) checkout                          B
8.2.9.   Periodic maintenance                                                   B
9.       MAINTENANCE GENERATION                                                  -
9.1.     Perform maintenance generation scenario                                2b




                                       53
Attachment 5

                   COURSE TRAINING STANDARD (CTS)
            CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS OFFICER COURSE (CMOC)
                  J3OBR21M1A 0M1B/J3OLR21M1A 0M1B
                            Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level
1. ORGANIZATIONS AND FUNCTIONS TR: AFI 21-201                                          -
1.1. Functions, roles, and responsibilities of Munitions Supervision                  B
1.2. Munitions Production Flight                                                       -
1.2.1. Functions, roles and responsibilities                                          B
1.2.2. Conventional Maintenance, Line Delivery, and Munitions Support Equipment       B
1.2.3. General handling procedures                                                    B
1.3. Munitions Materiel Flight                                                         -
1.3.1. Functions, roles, and responsibilities                                         B
1.3.2. Storage, Inspection, and Accountability                                        B
1.3.3. General principles of storage planning                                         B
1.3.4. Storage magazine types/area hazards                                            B
1.3.5. Calculate storage and compatibility requirements                               2b
1.3.6. Flow of assets from break-out to expenditure                                   B
1.3.7. Discrepancy reporting procedures                                               B
1.4. Munitions Systems Flight                                                          -
1.4.1. Functions, roles, and responsibilities                                         B
1.4.2. Munitions Control, Combat Plans and Mobility, Training, Plans and Scheduling   B
1.5. Functions, roles, and responsibilities of an Armament Systems Flight             B
2. SAFETY TR: AFI 91-201, AFI 32-1065, AFI 90-821                                      -
2.1. Explosive/Missile Safety                                                          -
2.1.1. Principles                                                                     B
2.1.2. Calculate Quantity-Distance (QD)                                               2b
3. MUNITIONS TR: 11A-1-63, Weapons Guide                                               -
3.1. Principles of conventional munitions and components                              B
3.2. Types of unguided munitions                                                      B
3.2.1. Chaff, flare, squibs, and impulse cartridges                                   B
3.3. Types of guided munitions/missile systems                                        B
3.4. Munitions test equipment                                                         B
3.5. Munitions material handling equipment                                            B
3.6. Munitions disposal requirements                                                  B
3.7. Emergency destruction and emergency response procedures                          A
3.8. Perform munitions build-up procedures                                            1b
3.9. Aircraft gun systems                                                             A
3.10. Weapons release systems                                                         A
4. FLIGHT LINE OPERATIONS TR: AFI 21-201, AFCSM 21-series                              -
4.1. Aircraft loading and standardization                                             A
4.2. Munitions allocation processes in support of flying operations                   B
5. SECURITY TR: AFI 21-200, DoD 5100.76-M, AFI 31-101                                  -


                                            54
5.1. Resource protection                                                                B
5.2. Munitions Storage Area (MSA)                                                       B
5.3. Conventional munitions key and lock program                                        B
6. MUNITIONS ALLOCATION AND ACCOUNTING TR: AFI 11-212, AFI 21-200,                      -
   AFI 21-201
6.1. Munitions accounting and supply process                                            B
6.2. Duties and responsibilities of the Munitions Accountable Systems Officer (MASO)    B
6.3. Perform selected actions within the Combat Ammunition System (CAS)                 2b
6.4. Munitions forecast and allocation process                                          B
6.5. Capability and application of munitions Command and Control (C2) systems           B
7. CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS TR: AFI 21-201, AFI 10-401, AFI 10-403, AFI                    -
   10-404, AFI 25-101
7.1. Air Force and DoD munitions allocation, distribution, and prepositioning process   B
7.2. Principles of wing war and exercise plans                                          B
7.3. Air Tasking Orders (ATO)                                                           B
7.4. Munitions Report (MUREP)                                                           A
7.5. Concept/purpose of the Munitions Employment Plan                                   B
7.6. War Reserve Material (WRM) stockpile                                               B
8. MAINTENANCE GENERATION SCENARIO                                                       -
8.1. Execute Munitions Maintenance Officer duties                                       2b




                                           55
Attachment 6

                     COURSE TRAINING STANDARD (CTS)
               NUCLEAR MAINTENANCE OFFICER COURSE (NMOC)
                     J3OBR21M1N 0N1C/J3OLR21M1N 0N1C

                            Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level
1. 11N SERIES TECHNICAL ORDERS                                                            B
2. QUALIFICATION/CERTIFICATION TRAINING                                                    -
2.1. Certification/qualification training for nuclear maintenance and handling            B
2.2. Quality assurance program                                                            B
3. NUCLEAR SURETY                                                                          -
3.1. Protection of Nuclear Assets                                                          -
3.1.1. Personnel Reliability Program (PRP)                                                B
3.1.2. Tamper control                                                                     B
3.2. DoD Nuclear Weapon System Safety Standards                                           B
3.3. Nuclear Deficiency Reporting                                                          -
3.3.1. Requirements                                                                       B
3.3.2. Analyze unsatisfactory reports                                                     2c
3.4. Accident/Incident/Deficiency (AID) Reports                                            -
3.4.1. Requirements                                                                       B
3.4.2. Prepare Nuclear Deficiency Worksheet                                               2b
3.5. Nuclear certification process for equipment, software, vehicles and test equipment   B
4. USAF NUCLEAR INSPECTION PROGRAM                                                        B
5. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                                          B
    (DOD)/DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (DOE)
6. NUCLEAR THEORY, EFFECTS, AND COMPONENTS                                                 -
6.1. Principles of Nuclear Theory                                                         A
6.2. Functions of nuclear weapons and components                                          A
7. AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS                                                               -
7.1. Physical characteristics of current AF nuclear weapons stockpile                     B
7.2. Stockpile Laboratory Test (SLT), Stockpile Flight Test (SFT), TYPE Weapons           A
8. MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF A TYPICAL NUCLEAR WEAPON                                  -
8.1. Operations                                                                           B
8.2. B-61 Maintenance                                                                      -
8.2.1. Bay prep procedures                                                                1b
8.2.2. Receipt/Verification inspection                                                    1b
8.2.3. General Maintenance (GM) procedures                                                1b
8.2.4. Prep for strike/prep for storage                                                   1b
8.2.5. Limited Life Cycle (LLC) exchange                                                  1b
8.3. Reentry Vehicle (RV) Maintenance                                                      -
8.3.1. Bay prep procedures                                                                1b
8.3.2. Receipt/Verification inspection                                                    1b
8.3.3. GM procedures                                                                      1b
8.3.4. LLC exchange                                                                       1b


                                              56
8.3.5. RV assembly/disassembly                                                     1b
9. NUCLEAR WEAPONS MAINTENANCE DOCUMENTATION, RECORDS,                              -
   AND REPORTS
9.1. Maintenance Records and Reports                                               -
9.1.1. Requirements                                                                B
9.1.2. Inspection Record Card (IRC) documentation                                  b
9.2. Nuclear Munitions Maintenance Actions And Applicable Forms/Documentation      -
9.2.1. Requirements                                                                B
9.2.2. Weapons Information Report (WIR) documentation                              b
9.3. Build Sheet Requirements                                                      B
9.4. Air Force Nuclear Munitions Command and Control (NMC2) SharePoint             B
10. NUCLEAR WEAPONS MATING PROCEDURES                                              A
11. STORAGE AND MANAGEMENT                                                         -
11.1. Storage and Handling Procedures                                              B
11.2. Nuclear safety requirements associated with nuclear weapons                  B
11.3. Firefighting guidance                                                        B
11.4. Access, Approval, and Authority List (AAAL) management responsibilities      B
12. PHYSICAL SECURITY                                                              -
12.1. Types of nuclear security                                                    B
12.2. Nuclear munitions key and lock program                                       B
12.3. Weapon Storage and Security System (WS3) requirements                        A
13. TRANSPORTATION OF MUNITIONS                                                    -
13.1. Special Assignment Airlift Mission/Prime Nuclear Airlift Force (SAAM/PNAF)   B
     procedures
13.2. Safeguards Transporter (SGT) operations                                      B
13.3. Tactical movements                                                           B
13.4. SAAM/PNAF security                                                           B
13.5. Custody transfer                                                             B
14. Types and uses of nuclear support equipment                                    B
15. Life cycle management                                                          A
16. Nuclear Weapons Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requirements             B
17. MUNITIONS ACCOUNTABLE SYSTEM OFFICER (MASO)                                    -
17.1. Duties and responsibilities of the MASO                                      B
17.2. Location Inventory Listing (LIL)                                             B
17.3. Reporting maintenance transactions                                           B
17.4. Nuclear Ordnance Controlled Material (NOCM) Account Management               -
17.4.1. Semiannual Inventory Report (SIR)                                          B
17.4.2. Weapon Status Report (WSR)                                                 B
17.4.3. Audit                                                                      B
17.4.4. Stockpile Emergency Verification (SEV)                                     B
17.5. Permissive Action Link (PAL), Active Protection System (APS), and Command    -
     Disable System (CDS)
17.5.1. PAL and APS                                                                B
17.5.2. CDS recode, code check, and disablement procedures                         2b
18. Maintenance scheduling                                                         B


                                         57
19. DIAMONDS                                                          B
20. Munitions Control duties and responsibilities                     B
21. Demonstrate WSA flight/element interactions (Capstone Exercise)   2b




                                            58
Attachment 7

                       COURSE TRAINING STANDARD (CTS)
                 NUCLEAR ACCOUNTABILITY COURSE (NAC)
                                 J3OZR21M1 0N1C

                           Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level
1. STOCKPILE LABORATORY TEST (SLT), STOCKPILE FLIGHT TEST (SFT)                   B
   AND TRAINING WEAPONS
2. NUCLEAR WEAPONS CONFIGURATIONS RECORDS                                         B
3. ACCESS, APPROVAL, AND AUTHORITY LIST (AAAL) MANAGEMENT                         B
   RESPONSIBILITIES
4. TRANSPORTATION OF MUNITIONS                                                    -
4.1. Special Assignment Airlift Mission/Prime Nuclear Airlift Force (SAAM/PNAF)   B
     procedures
4.2. SAAM/PNAF security                                                           B
4.3. Safeguards Transporter (SGT) operations                                      B
4.4. Operational movements                                                        B
4.5. Custody transfer                                                             B
5. NUCLEAR ACCOUNTABILITY AND REPORTING SECTION (NARS)                             -
5.1. Duties and responsibilities of the MASO                                      B
5.2. Location Inventory Listing (LIL)                                              -
5.2.1. LIL Requirements                                                           B
5.2.2. LIL management review process                                              B
5.2.3. Perform LIL management review and documentation                            2c
5.3. Unit Level Reports                                                           B
5.4. Perform unit level reports management review                                 2c
5.5. Nuclear Ordnance Controlled Material (NOCM)                                   -
5.5.1. NOCM account management                                                    B
5.5.2. Semiannual Inventory Report (SIR) procedures                               B
5.5.3. Perform SIR procedures                                                     2c
5.5.4. Weapon Status Report (WSR) procedures                                      B
5.5.5. Perform WSR procedures                                                     2c
5.5.6. Audit procedures                                                           B
5.5.7. Stockpile Emergency Verification (SEV) procedures                          B
5.5.8. Perform SEV procedures                                                     2c
5.5.9. Custody transfer procedures                                                B
5.5.10. Perform custody transfer procedures                                       2c
5.5.11. NARS warehouse management procedures                                      B
5.5.12. Perform inventory/management procedures on NOCM items within NARS         2c
         warehouse
5.5.13. Unit Spares Authorization Listings (USAL) management and recapitulation   B
         procedures
5.5.14. Perform USAL management and recapitulation procedures                     2c
5.5.15. Receipt/shipment/issue/turn-in documents                                  B


                                        59
5.5.16. Prepare and analyze receipt/shipment/issue/turn-in documents      2c
5.5.17. Maintaining an audit trail of accountable transactions            B
5.6. Nuclear Weapons Related Materiel (NWRM)                               -
5.6.1. Positive inventory control of NWRM                                 B
5.6.2. Perform NWRM management duties in Combat Ammunition System (CAS)   2b
6. DIAMONDS                                                                -
6.1. DIAMONDS roles, responsibilities, and applications                   B
6.2. Perform Data Dictionary maintenance                                  2c




                                       60
