DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                     CFETP 4E0XI
Headquarters US Air Force                                                        Parts I and II
Washington DC 20330-1030                                                      1 February 2014



              Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) 4E0X1

                               PUBLIC HEALTH




                     CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                       AND TRAINING PLAN

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALTY
                                       AFSC 4E0X1


                                            Table of Contents

PART I

Preface                                                                         4

Abbreviations/Terms Explained                                                   4

Section A, General Information                                                  8

1. Purpose of the CFETP                                                         8

2. Uses of the CFETP                                                            8

3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP                                       9

Section B, Career Progression and Information                                   9

1. Specialty Description                                                        9

2. Skill/Career Progression                                                     10
Apprentice (3-Skill Level)
Journeyman (5-Skill Level)
Craftsman (7-Skill Level)
Superintendent (9-Skill Level)

3. Training Decisions                                                           11

4. Community College of the Air Force                                           13

5. Active Duty 4E0X1 Career Field Path                                          16

Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements                                    18

1. Purpose                                                                      18

2.   Specialty Qualification Requirements (Apprentice through Superintendent)   19
a.   Knowledge
b.   Education
c.   Training
d.   Experience
e.   Other
f.   Training Sources
g.   Implementation

Section D, Resource Constraints                                                 21


                                                    2
Section E, Transition Training Guide                                                 21

PART II

Section A, Specialty Training Standard                                               22

1. Training Implementation Procedures                                                22

2. Structure                                                                         22

3. Recommendations for Feedback on Product/Process                                   22

4. Proficiency Code Key                                                              23

5. Specialty Training Standard (STS)                                                 24

Section B, Course Objectives List                                                    33

Section C, Support Material                                                          33

Section D, Training Course Index                                                     33

1. Air Force In-Residence Courses                                                    33

2. Education, Logistics, and Communications (A4/6) Courses and Exportable/Distance
Learning Courses                                                                     34

Section E, MAJCOM-Unique Requirements                                                34

Section F, Training Development & Documentation                                      34


OPR: AF/SG1E
Certified by: CMSgt Leslie Pratt (AFMSA/SG3P)
Supersedes: CFETP 4E0X1, 15 October 2012
Pages: 34




                                                 3
                       CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                               PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALTY
                                      AFSC 4E0X1

Part I, Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and training
document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements, training support resources, and
minimum core task requirements for the deliberate development of the 4E0X1 Air Force Specialty Code
(AFSC). The CFETP will provide Public Health (PH) personnel with a clear career path to success.
NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty-position qualification
training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors use both parts to plan, manage, and control 4E0X1
training.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall specialty management.

2.1.1. Section A explains how everyone will use this plan.

2.1.2. Section B identifies career field progression information, duties, responsibilities, training
strategies, and provides a developmental pathway.

2.1.3. Section C associates each skill level with the specialty qualifications for knowledge, education,
training, and experience.

2.1.4. Section D indicates resource constraints.

2.1.5. Section E is reserved for a Transitional Training Guide for use with merging career fields.

2.2. Part II provides a comprehensive list of training courses and standards available to support career
field training requirements. There are six sections to Part II: Specialty Training Standard (STS), Course
Objective List (COL), Support Material, Training Course Index, MAJCOM-Unique Requirements, and
Training Development & Documentation.

2.2.1. Section A contains the most current version of the STS. This revised STS identifies 3-, 5-, and 7-
skill level training requirements and indicates those tasks determined to be "core" tasks. The STS also
includes duties, tasks, technical references, United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine
(USAFSAM) conducted training, wartime emergency "surge" training curriculum, and correspondence
course requirements.

2.2.1.1. The 3-skill level column lists the topics and proficiency levels to which entry-level students are
trained in the Public Health Apprentice Course.

2.2.1.2. The 3-skill level column should be used by supervisors to conduct course graduate evaluations in
accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.

2.2.2. Section B contains the COL. Supervisors use this list to determine the scope of training Airmen
receive from these courses.

2.2.3. Section C identifies available training support materials.


                                                      4
2.2.4. Section D contains the Training Course Index, listing mandatory "in-residence" courses, field
training, education, logistics, and communications courses, and exportable courses used to support
training within the 4E career field. Supervisors use this index to determine resources available to support
training. Both mandatory and optional courses are listed here.

2.2.5. Section E identifies any MAJCOM-unique requirements, if any.

2.2.6. Section F is specific to medical AFSCs. It describes the master training plan and training
documentation.

2.2.7. At unit level, supervisors and trainers use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training in line with
the overall goals of this CFETP.

ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training: Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one or more
positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in
the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS/CJQS): A
comprehensive task list, which describes a particular job type or duty position. Supervisors documenting
task qualifications use them. The tasks on AFJQS/CJQS are common to all persons serving in the
described duty position.

Air Force Specialty (AFS): A group of positions requiring common qualifications. Each AFS has a title
and code.

Air Force Training Record (AFTR): provides the capability to manage the training lifecycle for Total
Force personnel. AFTR may be accessed within the Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS) by
clicking on "Training Records" in the bottom right of the ADLS main screen.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP): A comprehensive, multipurpose document
encapsulating the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines a logical growth
plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career field training identifiable, eliminate
duplication, and ensure the training is budget appropriate.

Certification: A formal indication of an individual's ability to perform a task to required standards.

Certification Official: A person designated by the commander to determine an individual's ability to
perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training: Additional training exceeding basic upgrade requirements with emphasis on
present or future duty assignments.

Core Task: Tasks the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identify as minimum qualification
requirements within an AFSC. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill level, duty position, or in
general across the AFSC. Guidance for using core tasks can be found in the applicable CFETP narrative.

Course Objective List (COL): A publication derived from initial and advanced skills Course Training
Standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve



                                                       5
a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate
evaluations.

Course Training Standard (CTS): A training standard that identifies the training members will receive
in a specific course.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST): A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training
(on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training: Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other
necessary means to supplement training.

External Evaluation: Acquisition and analysis of data from outside the training environment to evaluate
the training product in the operating environment.

Go/No Go: In on-the-job training (OJT), the stage at which an individual has gained enough skill,
knowledge, and experience to perform the tasks without supervision.

Initial Skills Training: A formal resident course, which results in award of the 3-skill (apprentice) level.

Instructional System Development (ISD): A deliberate and orderly, but flexible, process for planning,
developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel are taught in a cost-
effective manner the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job performance.

Master Training Plan (MTP): A reference guide developed for each section that includes all facets of
training for individuals assigned.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR): A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey of
tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT): Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify personnel in
both upgrade (skill level award) and qualification training (duty position certification).

Position Qualification Training: Training designed to qualify airmen in a specific position, which
occurs after upgrade training.

Qualification Training: Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an individual in
a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel OJT program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP): An instructional package designed for use at the unit to
qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position, program or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed,
computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints: Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and equipment
that precludes desired training from being delivered.

Skills Training: A formal course that results in award of a skill level.

Specialty Training Standard (STS): An Air Force (AF) publication that describes the skills and
knowledge that airmen in a particular AFS need on the job. It further serves as a contract between the Air


                                                      6
Education and Training Command (AETC) or the USAFSAM and the user to show the overall training
requirements for an AFSC that the formal schools teach.

Standard: An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by authority,
custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model or rule in measuring quantities or qualities,
establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed quantity or quality.

Task Certifier: See Certification Official.

Total Force: All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of the
United States Air Force.

Trainer: A trained and qualified person who teaches airmen to perform specific tasks through OJT
methods. Also, equipment that the trainer uses to teach airmen specified tasks.

Training Capacity: The capability of a training setting to provide training on specified requirements,
based on the availability of resources.

Training Requirements Analysis: A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be included in the
training decision process.

Training Session: Training that trainer’s conduct based on technical data for a maintenance task that
existing courses cannot support.

Training Setting: The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-job,
field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT): Mandatory training which leads to attainment of a higher level of
proficiency.

Utilization and Training Pattern: A depiction of the training provided to and the jobs performed by
personnel throughout their tenure within a career field or AFS. There are two types of patterns: 1)
current pattern, which is based on the training provided to incumbents and the jobs to which they have
been and are assigned, and 2) alternate pattern, which considers proposed changes in manpower,
personnel, and training policies.

United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM): USAFSAM is located at
Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW): A forum of the AFSC Career Field Manager (CFM),
MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFM), Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and USAFSAM training
personnel who determine career ladder training requirements.




                                                    7
PART I, Section A - General Information

1. Purpose of the CFETP: This CFETP provides information necessary for the PH CFM, PH MFMs,
commanders, training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an
effective career field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in the 4E0X1
AFSC will receive to develop and progress in the 4E career field. This plan identifies initial skills,
upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training.

1.1. Initial skills training, conducted at USAFSAM, is the AFSC-specific training an individual receives
upon entry into the 4E career field. Course graduates are awarded the 3-skill level.

1.2. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task-qualification requirements, minimum
experience level, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-
skill levels.

1.3. Qualification training is actual "hands on" task performance training designed to qualify an airman
in a specific duty position. This training occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is
designed to provide the knowledge, skill, ability, and confidence required to do the job.

1.4. Advanced training is formal specialty training provided to select airmen.

1.5. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence, exportable, or on-the-job, provided to
increase an airman's skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade.

2. Uses of the CFETP: The plan will be used by PH MFMs and supervisors of 4E Airmen at all levels
to ensure comprehensive and cohesive specialty training.

2.1. USAFSAM PH staff develop and revise formal resident, nonresident, field and exportable training
based on requirements established during U&TWs and other curriculum reviews. They also work with
the PH CFM to develop acquisition strategies to obtain resources needed to provide the identified
training.

2.2. PH MFMs will ensure MAJCOM-unique training programs complement 4E CFETP requirements.

2.3. Each 4E Airman will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan for their
respective upgrade training.

2.4. Scope of practice waivers. When the military treatment facility (MTF) executive management team
or any other leadership entity determines there is need for PH enlisted personnel to perform tasks clearly
beyond the expectations of this CFETP, the MAJCOM Surgeon General considers and recommends
waivers as appropriate. The recommended waiver must then be forwarded to the CFM for approval.
Consistent with the CFETP review process, waivers will be reviewed annually.

2.4.1. In all cases, training for additional clinical tasks will be formally certified on AF Form 797, Job
Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS, and maintained in the individual enlisted
training and competency record. Training references for all tasks beyond the CFETP will be maintained
in the duty section where these tasks are performed.

2.4.2. Waiver requests will include the following:
         Rationale for expanding practice to include who and location within the MTF.
         Procedures for competency validation/verification.


                                                      8
           Guidelines for maintaining proficiency.
           Procedures for sustaining the expanded practice within the MTF.

3. Coordination and Approval of CFETP: The AFCFM is the approval authority for this CFETP. 4E
MFMs and USAFSAM PH staff will identify and coordinate career field training requirements. The
USAFSAM PH Training Manager will coordinate with the 4E CFM and 4E MFMs to complete an annual
review of the 4E CFETP to assure document currency and accuracy.

PART I, Section B - Career Progression and Information

1. 4E0X1 Specialty Description

1.1. Summary: Manages and performs public health activities and programs in support of the Aerospace
Medicine Program. There are two major divisions within Public Health: Community Health Management
and Force Health Management. Included within Community Health Management are communicable
disease control and prevention, food safety and defense, medical entomology, sanitary compliance, and
public health contingency response. Included within Force Health Management are management of
medical deployment clearance processing, Preventive Health Assessment (PHA) and Individual Medical
Readiness in Aeromedical Services Information Management Systems (ASIMS), administrative oversight
of occupational health examinations (including performing audiograms). Related DoD Occupational
Subgroup: 132200.

1.2. Duties and Responsibilities:

1.2.1. Community Health Management.

1.2.1.1. Organizes and assists in communicable disease prevention and control programs. Controls
disease transmission through patient interviews, epidemiological investigations, patient education and
community outreach programs. Advises professionals on control measures. Updates and completes
associated records and forms. Investigates disease outbreaks. Collects and compiles epidemiological
data. Identifies, evaluates, and reports trends.

1.2.1.2. Conducts food safety and defense programs. Inspects sanitary condition of containers and
vehicles. Ensures food origin and distribution are from approved sources. Inspects foods for
wholesomeness and contract compliance. Makes recommendations for disposition of deteriorated or
distressed foods. Assesses risks associated with production, transportation, storage, preparation and
serving of food. Recommends measures to prevent contamination (unintentional as well as intentional),
deterioration and completes Food Vulnerability Assessments. Inspects operational rations. Collects and
ships food for laboratory analysis. Investigates customer complaints and food recalls. Evaluates and
completes inspection records.

1.2.1.3. Plans and conducts medical entomology program. Evaluates vector-borne disease risk.
Conducts disease and pest/vector surveillance. Monitors compliance and effectiveness of vector and pest
management control measures. Recommends prevention and control measures. Provides education and
training on prevention and control of vector-borne diseases.

1.2.1.4. Plans and conducts sanitation programs. Conducts sanitary evaluations of food, public facilities,
and military and civilian contract aircraft. Determines compliance with sanitary standards and reports
discrepancies. Provides food handler, disease outbreak, and community health education and training.

1.2.1.5. Plans, organizes, and conducts public health contingency response programs.


                                                    9
1.2.2. Force Health Management.

1.2.2.1. Assists in Occupational Health Programs. Ensures personnel receive appropriate pre-
employment, periodic and termination occupational examinations. Conducts occupational audiometric
evaluations. Provides consultation to supervisors and workers in personal hygiene, occupational hazards,
hazard communications and personal protective equipment. Monitors results of occupational health
examinations to detect adverse trends. Investigates occupational illnesses and assists with completion of
fitness and risk evaluations. Advises healthcare providers on workplace hazards. Manages and provides
quality control of occupational health examinations. Conducts shop visits at the discretion of the
Occupational Environmental Health Working Group.

1.2.2.2. Provides administrative oversight to the ASIMS program. Gathers data, produces rosters and
provides reports for Primary Care Management Teams, Unit personnel and both medical and line
leadership regarding Individual Medical Readiness (IMR) requirements.

1.2.2.3. Plans and conducts deployment medicine programs. Oversees medical clearances for deploying
personnel. Provides deploying personnel with medical intelligence briefs to include the threat of vector
borne disease and prevention; use of personal protective equipment. Also oversees medical reintegration
by ensuring all re-deployers complete required post-deployment medical requirements.

1.2.2.4. Conducts PHA program. Manages PHA program to include processing, tracking, notification,
and quality control. Coordinates with the MPF to review in-processing medical records for IMR
deficiencies and potentially disqualifying information. Makes patient referrals based on PHA business
rules and clinical guidance from patient care teams. Orders necessary ancillary studies as directed by
IMR regulations, Air Force Instructions, and PHA business rules. Conducts height, weight, blood
pressure, and distant vision screening assessment measurements. Completes required documentation in
the medical records.

2. Skill/Career Progression: Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent skill level plays an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its mission. The
guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each PH Airman receives viable training at
appropriate points in his/her career.

2.1. Apprentice (3-Skill) Level: Initial skills training in this specialty consists of the task and knowledge
training provided in the 3-skilI level resident course (B3ABY4E031 0A1C) located at Wright-Patterson
AFB, OH. Following completion of initial skills training, the 4E011 "helper" level Airman is awarded
the 4E031 "apprentice" skill level. The 4E031’s immediate supervisor will manage the member's 5-skill
level upgrade training curriculum to include career development course (CDC) enrollment and fulfillment
of OJT requirements. Apprentice should initiate off-duty college education and strive to complete
Associate Degree in Public Health Technology requirements for award of their Community College of the
Air Force (CCAF) degree.

2.2. Journeyman (5-Skill) Level: For award of the 5-skill level, 4E Airmen must (1) complete a
minimum of 12 months OJT (9 months for retrainees), (2) complete the 4E051 CDC, (3) be signed off on
all STS specified "core" tasks, and (4) be recommended by their supervisor before upgrade to the 5-skill
level. Once upgraded to the 5-skill level, a journeyman will enter into continuation training. 4E051s are
typically assigned duties of increased responsibility such as program manager, inspector, interviewer, and
instructor. PH Journeyman-level Airmen are also fully qualified for deployment service. Most 4E051s
will attend Airman Leadership School (ALS) after having 48 months time-in-service (for specifics, see
AFI 36-2301, Developmental Education). Following completion of ALS, 5-skill levels will be considered


                                                     10
for appointment as supervisors and, rank permitting, element-level Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
(NCOIC). 4E051s should complete their Associate Degree in Public Health Technology requirements for
award of their CCAF degree.

2.3. Craftsman (7-Skill) Level: Individuals must be SSgt selects or above to enter 7-skill level upgrade
training. They must complete a minimum 12 months (6 months for retrainees who currently or previously
held a 7-skill level) OJT and a combination of formal and distance learning courses (see Table 1,
Mandatory 7- skill level Training Requirements). The Center for Disease Control and Prevention
Epidemiology distance learning course must be completed as continuation training at any time following
award of the 5-skill level. A 4E071 can expect to fill various supervisory and management positions such
as NCOIC of a flight or element. They may also be assigned to higher headquarters staff positions or as a
technical training instructor. Additionally, they can expect career broadening experiences beyond the 4E
career field (i.e. USAFSAM, PME instructor, first sergeant, recruiter, etc.). Increasing PH management
experience, deployment service, and additional duty at squadron level are strongly recommended for
senior noncommissioned officer (SNCO) promotion. Continued education leading to award of a PH-
related bachelor's degree (i.e. Air University Associate-to-Baccalaureate Cooperative degree program) is
expected.

                Table 1. Minimum Requirements for 7-Skill Level Upgrade:

• Complete in residence Operational Entomology Course;
• Complete minimum 12 months upgrade training (minimum 6 months for retrainees who currently or
  previously held a 7-skill level);
• All core tasks signed off;
• Complete Center for Disease Control and Prevention Epidemiology Distance Learning Course;
• Receive supervisor and training manager recommendation;
• Current Hearing Conservation Certification

2.4. Superintendent (9-Skill) Level: AFSC 4E091 will be awarded upon promotion to SMSgt, and after
satisfying the requirements of AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted). A
4E091 can be expected to fill positions such as MAJCOM PH Functional Manager; Superintendent,
Public Health Flight and may include additional duty as a squadron superintendent. Additional training in
the areas of budget, manpower, resources, and personnel management should be pursued through
continuing education. Higher education, deployment experience, and greater responsibility within the
medical treatment facility and in the host unit, base, or community are all expectations of SNCOs.

3. Training Decisions: The training decisions for 4E0X1 career field were made during the 15-18 July
2011 Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). Additionally, modifications were made to the CFETP
removing MSME functions as they have transitioned to AFSC 4N0X1F, Flight and Operational Medicine
Technician, effective 1 Oct 13. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the 4E0X1 career field. The spectrum
includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training requirements. The strategy must be
apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training.

3.1. Initial Skills Training (3) Skill Level: There were multiple proficiency code changes in addition of
training for PHAs and inclusion of medical terminology. Due to high costs and a low pass rate, the
requirement for Serve Safe certification was discontinued. All 3-skill level personnel will continue to



                                                    11
receive thorough indoctrination to the Food Code; however, during the 2011 U&TW, it was determined
that training in every section of the Food Code will not be provided. Information Systems Management
was revised to indicate current software applications.

3.2. Five (5) Skill Level: The 4E051 CDC will be revised and updated to meet new training requirements
(PHA) identified, and update new technology and regulatory information. CDCs are expected to be
completed and available NLT June 2014. Completion of CDCs is mandatory before member is eligible
for upgrade to the 5-skill level.

3.3. Seven (7) Skill Level: Members of the July 2011 U&TW streamlined the mandatory upgrade training
requirements, eliminating the EduNeering web-based training requirement; mandated "in residence"
completion of the Operational Entomology Course, and made the Public Health Office Management
courses optional. Additionally, the proficiency codes for many 7-skill level tasks were adjusted based on
results from the Occupational Job Analysis and recommendations from SMEs. New tasks identified were
primarily in the area of PHA.

3.4. Rotational Training: To ensure maximum training benefits, at all times possible, the public health
apprentices will rotate through the various duty areas with regards to their CDCs (i.e. if working on Food
Technology and Sanitation Evaluation CDC, trainee would also be working in that area). Trainees in 5-
skill level UGT will stay in each functional area (Force Health Management and Community Health) for a
minimum of 4 months. Once the 5-skill level is obtained, the Public Health Journeyman will rotate
through each functional area as described in Table 2. This will ensure each journeyman has the
opportunity to master all tasks prior to achieving his/her 7-skill level. Once the 7-skill level is obtained,
the Public Heath Craftsman will rotate through each functional area as described in Table 2. Rotational-
based performance ensures stability within each functional area and allows the Craftsman to perfect
his/her craft while providing appropriate training to others in UGT.

3.5. Qualification Training Packages (QTPs): There are currently two QTPs available for the 4E0X1
career field. Any additional QTPs will be addressed with MFMs and USAFSAM representatives, and
will be identified during periodic updates of this CFETP.

3.6. Proficiency Training: Any additional knowledge and skill requirements, which were not taught
through initial skills or UGT, were assigned to continuation training. The purpose of the continuation-
training program is to provide additional training exceeding the minimum UGT requirements with
emphasis on present and future duty positions. PH supervisors and managers must develop a
continuation-training program that ensures individuals in the PH career field receive the necessary
training at the appropriate point in their career. The training program will identify both mandatory and
optional training requirements. Supervisors can use the PH Task Breakdown library, found on the PH
CFM Knowledge Exchange site, as a proficiency training resource. PH supervisors must be familiar with
available training courses listed on AETC Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA), and
highly encourage and support attendance of these courses.

3.7. Recommended Rotation. To maximize career broadening opportunities, the rotation schedule
following is highly recommended for 4Es working at an MTF. These are only recommendations and
deviations may be required to meet the specific mission requirements of each facility.




                                                     12
                               Table 2. Recommended Rotation Schedule

Force Health Management                                          3-Skill Level > 4 months
Public Health technicians should rotate equally through          5-Skill Level > 18-24 months
PHAs, Deployment/Occupational Health, etc.                       7-Skill Level > 24-36 months
                                                                 NCOIC, HSI through HSI
Community Health                                                 3-Skill Level > 4 months
Public Health Technicians should rotate equally between          5-Skill Level > 18-24 months
Food Safety/Communicable Disease/Entomology, etc.                7-Skill Level > 24-36 months
                                                                 NCOIC, HSI through HSI

4. Community College of the Air Force: Enrollment in the CCAF occurs upon completion of basic
military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Science degree. In
addition to its associate degree program, the CCAF offers the following.
4.1. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program: CCAF offers the CIC Program for qualified
instructors who teach CCAF collegiate-level courses at a CCAF-affiliated school. The purpose of the
certification is to recognize the instructor's extensive faculty development training, education and
qualification required to teach a CCAF course and formally acknowledges the instructor's practical
teaching experience.
4.2. CCAF ISD Certification Program: CCAF offers the ISD Certification Program for qualified
individuals who develop and/or manage CCAF courses or curriculum at CCAF affiliated schools. The
purpose of the certification is to recognize the training and education required for individuals to be
qualified to develop and manage CCAF collegiate courses. The certification also recognizes the
individual's ISD qualifications and experience in planning, developing, implementing, and managing
instructional systems. Qualified officer, enlisted, civilian, and other service curriculum writers and
managers are eligible for this certification.
4.3. Trade Skill Certification: When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill certification is
awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The college uses a competency-based assessment
process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels: Apprentice, Journeyman,
Craftsman/Supervisor, or Master Craftsman/Manager. All are transcribed on the CCAF transcript.
4.4. Professional Manager Certification (PMC): CCAF offers the PMC for qualified senior Air Force
enlisted personnel who have demonstrated an advanced level of professional accomplishment. The
purpose of the certification is to recognize the individual’s outstanding education and training required to
lead and manage Air Force personnel and critical national defense assets. The certification also formally
acknowledges the individuals management qualifications and experience. Qualified Air Force enlisted
personnel are eligible for this certification.
4.5. Degree Requirements: All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Public Health
degree program requirements are shown in Table 3. Airmen can tap into multiple CCAF self-service
options via the Air Force Virtual Education Center application from the Air Force Portal or via the Air
University CCAF website.
4.6. Off-duty Education: Pursing an off-duty education is a personal choice that is strongly encouraged
for all Airmen. Individuals desiring to become an AETC Instructor should be actively pursuing an
associate degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools.
4.7. Education Office: First-term airmen will receive mandatory in-processing briefings from the
education services office concerning CCAF and local opportunities. Supervisors should encourage
personnel to visit the base education service center for additional information.


                                                     13
                                   Table 3. CCAF Degree Requirements
                                            Public Health Technology (7ECY)
DEGREE REQUIREMENTS: The journeyman (5-skill) level must be held at the time of program completion.
TECHNICAL EDUCATION (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of technical core subjects or courses
must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from technical core or technical elective subjects or courses.
Requests to substitute comparable courses or to exceed specified semester hour values in any subject or course must be
approved in advance.
Technical Core
Max Semester Hours
CCAF Internship                       18
Communicable Diseases                  6
Epidemiology                           8
Food Safety/Sanitation                 6
Hearing Conservation                   3
Medical Entomology                     3
Medical Readiness                      3
Occupational Health and Safety         9
Public Health                         16
Zoonotic Diseases                      3
Technical Electives
Max Semester Hours
Computer Science                       6
Ergonomics                             3
General Biology                        8
General Chemistry                      8
General Physical Science               4
General Psychology                     3
Microbiology                           4
Statistics                             3
LEADERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, AND MILITARY STUDIES (6 Semester Hours): Professional military education,
civilian management courses accepted in transfer and/or by testing credit.
PHYSICAL EDUCATION (4 Semester Hours)
GENERAL EDUCATION (15 Semester Hours) Applicable courses must meet the criteria for application of courses to
general education requirement and agree with the definitions of applicable courses.
Subjects/Courses                    Semester Hours
Oral Communication (Speech)                       3
Written Communication (English Comp)              3
Mathematics                                       3
   Intermediate algebra or college-level mathematics course satisfying delivering institution's
   mathematics graduation requirement-if an acceptable mathematics course applies as technical or
   program elective, you may substitute a natural science course for mathematics.
Social Science                                     3
   Anthropology, Archaeology, Economics, Geography, Government, History, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology
Humanities                                         3
   Fine Arts (Criticism, Appreciation, Historical Significance), Foreign Language, Literature, Philosophy, Religion
PROGRAM ELECTIVE (15 Semester Hours): Courses applying to technical education, LMMS or general education
requirements; natural science courses meeting general education requirement application criteria; foreign language credit
earned at Defense Language Institute or through Defense Language Proficiency Test; maximum 9 semester hours of CCAF
degree-applicable technical course credit otherwise not applicable to program of enrollment. Please reference the CCAF
Catalog for continuous updates.




                                                            14
5. Active Duty 4E0X1 Career Path.
                                                    Table 4. Enlisted Career Path

                                                                                         GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training Requirements                                 Rank           Average       Earliest   High Year Of Tenure
                                                                                  Promotion     Promotion         (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School
(3-Skill Level)                                                     Amn            6 months
                                                                    A1C           10 months

Upgrade To Journeyman
(5-Skill Level)
- Minimum 12 months in Upgrade Training (UGT)
   - 9 months for retrainees                                        Amn
- Complete 4E051 CDCs                                               A1C             3 years          28 months                 8 Years
- Trained/Certified on all core tasks.                              SrA
Airman Leadership School (ALS)
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time-in-service or be a SSgt
  selectee
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt sew-on (Active
Duty Only)
Trainer/Certifier Requirements                                                                          Trainer
                                                                  - Qualified and certified to perform task to be trained.
                                                                  - Must attend AF Training Course and be appointed by Commander
                                                                  - Recommended by supervisor
                                                                                                       Certifier
                                                                  - Possess at least the grade of SSgt with 5 skill level or civilian
                                                                    equivalent
                                                                  - Attend AF Training Course and appointed by Commander
                                                                  - Be a person other than the trainer
                                                                  - Be certified on the tasks to be evaluated
Upgrade To Craftsman
(7-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SSgt
- 12 months UGT
   - 6 months for retrainees                                        SSgt            4 years            3 years                15 Years
- Complete all core and duty position tasks
- Complete In Resident Operational Entomology
- Complete Center for Diseases Control and Prevention
  Epidemiology CBT
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt selectee                                   TSgt          10.8 years           5 years                20 Years
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt sew-on (Active
  Duty Only)                                                        MSgt          16.8 years           8 years                24 Years

USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)
- Must be a MSgt or SMSgt selectee
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for CMSgt sew-on           SMSgt          19.8 years          11 years                26 Years
(Active Duty Only). A percentage of top nonselects (for
promotion to E-8) MSgts attend SNCOA each year
Upgrade to Superintendent
 (9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt
Upon Selection to CMSgt
- Intermediate Executive Skills Course
- Other Leadership Courses (AFSO21 Executive Leadership            CMSgt          25.3 years          14 years                30 Years
  Seminar, Keystone, etc.)




                                                                    15
                         Figure 1. 4E Enlisted Career Field Path




        Skill Level                                                       Professional Development

                                                                            •   Keystone National Defense University
                                                                            •   The ARC of Crisis
                                                                            •   AFSO21 Executive Leadership Course
4E000                                          CMSAF
                                                                            •   The Enterprise Management Seminar
                                                CFM
                                                                            •   Gettysburg Leadership Experience
                                                CCM                         •   Leadership Development Program
                                           PME Commandant
                                               AAFES
                                             USAFSAM
                                              MAJCOM


                                      Squadron Superintendent                      • SNCOA
                                            USAFSAM                                • Masters Degree in Public Health
                                             MAJCOM
                                               AAFES
4E091                                     USAF Academy
                                           First Sergeant


                      USAF Academy                    AFMOA                                       • NCOA
                      AFMSA                           AFMIC                                       • SNCOA Correspondence (Course 14)
                      TRICARE Lead Agent              USAFSAM or AETC Instructor                  • Senior Enlisted Joint PME
4E071                 AFSOC OSM                       DMRTI (C4Course)                            • Bachelors Degree in Biological
                      Aircrew Standards               GSU Staff                                     Sciences or other degree with heavy
                      MTL/MTI                         Recruiter                                     concentration in biological sciences
                                                                                                  • Operational Entomology
                                                                                                  • CDC Epidemiology Course
                                           USAF Academy
4E051                                        USAFSAM
                                              USAF Academy
4E031                                           USAFSAM




                                                16
Part I, Section C – Skill Level Training Requirements

1. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of task and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill
level in broad terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each
skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS at Part II,
Sections A and B of this CFETP.

2. Specialty Qualification Requirements

2.1. Apprentice Level Upgrade Training (AFSC 4E011 to 4E031)

2.1.1. Specialty Qualification

2.1.1.1. Knowledge: Mandatory understanding of: basic biological and physical sciences; preventive
medicine; fundamentals of microbiology, chemistry, anatomy, physiology, and pathology of the human
body; terminology, limited paraprofessional examinations, medical entomology programs; food science
and technology; food handler training; food and water safety and defense principles; food inspection;
laboratory procedures; sanitary evaluations; public facility sanitation; prevention and control of
foodborne, waterborne, and vector borne diseases; communicable disease prevention and control;
epidemiology; occupational health (including hearing conservation); medical readiness (including
medical intelligence, deployment processing, and deployment surveillance); personnel management and
administration; medical service organization and function; basic medical information management
(including database management); and written and oral communication.

2.1.1.2. Education: For entry into this specialty, completion of high school courses in biology,
chemistry, and general science is desirable.

2.1.1.3. Training: For award of AFSC 4E031, successful completion of the Public Health Apprentice
course is mandatory.

2.1.1.4. Experience: None.

2.1.2. Training Sources and Resources: Completion of the resident Public Health Apprentice Course at
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH satisfies the training requirements specified in the specialty qualification
section (above) for award of the 3-skill level. A list of all training courses is in Part II, Section A of this
CFETP.

2.1.3. Implementation: Entry into 3-skill level training is accomplished by new accessions upon
graduation from Basic Military Training. Another venue is by approved retraining from any AFSC at the
5-skill level or higher (must complete normal retraining application). The Public Health Apprentice
Course (B3ABY4E031 0A1C ) is an in resident course requiring mandatory attendance. Course is hosted
by USAFSAM, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH. This course is approximately 60 days long. The 3-skill level
is awarded upon completion (graduation) from Public Health Apprentice initial skills training.

2.2. Journeyman Level Upgrade Training (AFSC 4E031 to 4E051)

2.2.1. Specialty Qualification: Entry into 5-skill level UGT is initiated after the individual has completed
the technical training requirements and in-processed at their gaining unit. All 4E031 qualifications in
addition to the following:



                                                       17
2.2.1.1. Knowledge: Expanded knowledge of: basic biological and physical sciences; preventive
medicine; fundamentals of microbiology, chemistry, anatomy, physiology, and pathology of the human
body; terminology, limited paraprofessional examinations, medical entomology programs; food science
and technology; food handler training; food and water safety and defense principles; food inspection;
laboratory procedures; sanitary evaluations; public facility sanitation; prevention and control of
foodborne, waterborne, and vector borne diseases; communicable disease prevention and control;
epidemiology; occupational health (including hearing conservation); medical readiness (including
medical intelligence, deployment processing, and deployment surveillance); personnel management and
administration; medical service organization and function; basic medical information management
(including database management) and written and oral communication.

2.2.1.2. Education: Completion of college level courses towards award of the CCAF Public Health
Technology associate degree is strongly encouraged.

2.2.1.3. Training: Completion of the 4E051 Public Health Journeyman CDC and all core tasks/duty
position tasks trained and signed off are mandatory.

2.2.1.4. Experience: Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4E031. Also, experience in functions
such as routine food safety and defense inspection; sanitary evaluations; communicable disease control
and disease intervention; occupational health; force health management activities; PHA cell; medical
entomology programs; and public health medical readiness programs.

2.2.2. Training Sources and Resources: 4E051 Public Health Journeyman CDC plus OJT via task
references (see STS) and the 4E Task Breakdown library available at the PH CFM Knowledge Exchange
site. SrA with 48 months time-in-service and SSgt selects will attend ALS.

2.2.3. Implementation: Upgrade training to the 5-skill level begins upon assignment to the first duty
station and is awarded upon completion of mandatory training (CDCs, all core tasks, and duty position
tasks) and supervisor's recommendation.

2.3. Craftsman Level Upgrade Training (4E051 to 4E071)

2.3.1. Specialty Qualification: Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4E051.

2.3.1.1. Knowledge: Managing personnel, resources, and equipment, personnel training, counseling, and
budgeting; preventive medicine programs; medical entomology programs; food safety, security and
sanitation programs; public facility sanitation; prevention and control of foodborne, waterborne, and
vector borne diseases; communicable disease prevention and control; epidemiology; occupational health
programs; medical readiness; medical administration and information management; limited
paraprofessional examinations; database management; medical intelligence and deployment processing
and written and oral communication. Public Health Craftsman candidates are expected to demonstrate an
in-depth understanding of foodborne disease that will enable them to evaluate food sources, food
manufacturing plants, and food service and storage operations at Continental United States and Outside
the Continental United States main operating bases. The craftsman is expected to apply this knowledge in
developing-nation and field settings to protect deployed forces from food-related disease threats.

2.3.1.2. Education: Award of the Public Health Technology associate degree is expected, and award of a
higher-level degree is highly desirable.




                                                   18
2.3.1.3. Training: Completion of mandatory formal and distance learning coursework (see page 14,
Table 1), trained and signed off in all core/duty position, and currency in all readiness skills verification
(RSV) items/tasks.

2.3.1.4. Experience: Experience in performing public health programs combined with continuing
development and emphasis on leadership, management, and supervisory skills are critical to the transition
from technician to supervisor. Strong writing and oral communication skills are essential for success.
Communicating with civilian-equivalent public health agencies and increased involvement with other
flights and squadrons within the organization and across the installation enhance experience.
Membership, certification, or registration with a professional Public Health or Environmental Health
organization is desirable.

2.3.2. Training Sources/Resources: Formal Training (see USAFSAM Course Catalog) and distance
learning tools. The NCO Academy in-residence is available to TSgt selects and TSgts. The SNCO
Academy (non-resident course) is available to all TSgts who have completed the NCOA and have at least
2 years time-in-grade.

2.3.3. Implementation: Formal upgrade training to the 7-skill level begins upon the first day of the first
month of the promotion cycle for promotion to Staff Sergeant. The 7-skill level is awarded after
completion of all prerequisite courses, certification of training in core tasks, completion of mandatory
upgrade training duration, and recommendation of the supervisor.

2.4 Superintendent Level Upgrade Training (4E071 to 4E091)

2.4.1. Specialty Qualification: Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4E071.

2.4.1.1. Knowledge: Extensive knowledge of wing and medical service organization and functions; all
public health programs; personnel management; administration; resource management; and leadership are
mandatory.

2.4.1.2. Education: Award of a higher level degree at this skill level is expected.

2.4.1.3. Training: Completion of the duty position training requirements and RSV currency is
mandatory.

2.4.1.4. Experience: Broad experience managing public health activities, supervising civilian and
military personnel, and demonstrated leadership skills.

2.4.2. Training Sources/Resources: Completion of appropriate PME for this grade is expected.

2.4.3. Implementation: The 9-skill level is awarded upon promotion to Senior Master Sergeant.

2.5. Other: The following are mandatory for entry into this specialty:

2.5.1. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, Medical
Standards Directory.

2.5.2. For award and retention of AFSCs 4E031/4E051/4E071, Hearing Conservation certification is
mandatory.

2.5.3. Must pass Reading Aloud Test as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Standards Directory.


                                                      19
2.5.4. Valid state driver’s license and qualification to operate government motor vehicles according to
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.

2.5.5. For award and retention of these AFSCs, must maintain an Air Force Network License according to
AFI 33-115, Volume 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals.

Section D - Resource Constraints: There are currently no resource constraints.

Section E- Transition Training Guide: There is currently no transition training requirement. This area
is reserved.


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL

                                                      THOMAS W. TRAVIS
                                                      Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                                      Surgeon General




                                                   20
Part II, Section A – Specialty Training Standard

1. Training Implementation Procedures: This STS will be used for technical training provided by
USAFSAM for classes beginning after 1 January 2013 and graduating thereafter until the STS is revised.
Training documentation will be accomplished in the web-based Air Force Training Record (AFTR),
accessible from the AF Portal via the Advanced Distributed Learning System (ADLS).

2. Structure:

2.1. Column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) shows the most common tasks, knowledge
requirements, and technical references (TR) necessary for PH Airmen to perform duties in the 4E 3-, 5-,
and, 7-skill levels.

2.2. Column 2 shows both the wartime and core tasks (for both 5- and 7-skill levels) identified by the
letter “C” for core task and letter “W” for emergency “surge” apprentice course training.

2.3. Column 3 shows certification for OJT document training start and completion dates and initials.

2.3.1. Column 3A indicates the training start date.

2.3.2. Column 3B indicates the training completion date.

2.3.3. Column 3C is reserved for the trainee’s initials.

2.3.4. Column 3D is reserved for the trainer’s initials.

2.3.5. Column 3E is reserved for the certifier’s initials. Note: There are currently no 4E tasks that
require third-party certification.

2.4. Column 4 Proficiency code used to indicate training/information provided (for notes, refer to the
proficiency code key on page 24).

2.4.1. Column 4A shows the Public Health Apprentice Course training requirements.

2.4.2. Column 4B.

2.4.2.1. Column 4B1 shows 4E051 OJT requirements.

2.4.2.2. Column 4B2 shows 4E051 CDC training requirements.

2.4.3. Column 4C shows 4E071 course and OJT training requirements.

3. Recommendations for Feedback on Product/Process: Report unsatisfactory performance of
individual course graduates (identify complete AETC technical school’s mailing address). Reference
specific STS paragraphs.

Attachment:
Qualitative Requirements




                                                      21
                                                         Attachment 1
                                           Section A – Public Health (4E0X1) STS
                                        Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
                                                     Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)          Initials (Written)            SSAN (Last 4)

                                         Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                  N/I
N/I                                                                           N/I
N/I                                                                           N/I
N/I                                                                           N/I
N/I                                                                           N/I
N/I                                                                           N/I
                                                 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                            Proficiency Code Key

                                Scale Value     Definition: The individual

TASK PERFORMANCE                     1          Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most parts of the task.
      LEVELS                                    (Extremely Limited)
                                     2          Can do most parts of the task. Needs help on only the hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
                                     3          Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of the completed work. (Competent)

                                     4          Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (Highly
                                                Proficient)

  TASK KNOWLEDGE                     a          Can name parts, tools, and simple tasks about the task. (Nomenclature)
   LEVELS (Note 1)
                                     b          Can determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)

                                     c          Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed. (Operating Principles)

                                     d          Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)

SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE                    A          Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
   LEVELS (Note 2)
                                     B          Can identify relationships of basic facts and state general principles about the subject (Principles)

                                     C          Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)

                                     D          Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
1. A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task. (Example:
b and 1b)
2. A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a subject
common to several tasks.
3. An asterisk (*) following any topic in column one indicates the topic is not applicable to the ANG and AFRES.
4. A dash (-) mark in column 9-12 is used instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course/CDC. If used after a
previous scale value has been attained/certified, the applicable proficiency level is still required to be validated/certified.
5. The letter “W” in column 2 identifies minimum apprentice-level instruction during emergency surge training conditions warranting accelerated 3-
skill level formal training.
6. The letter “C” in column 3 identifies a core task.
8. STS notes for columns 9-12:
- Note 1: Hearing Conservation Certification (HCC) training during the 4E031 course fulfills this training requirement. Currency via HCC refresher
course satisfies additional upgrade training requirements.
- Note 2: The course in which the skill is taught is indicated along with the proficiency code (if applicable).
- Abbreviations: CPM=Contingency Preventive Medicine Course; EPI=CDC Epidemiology Course; OEC=Operational Entomology
NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code in the 3-skill level course column are
trained during wartime.


                                                                        22
Task, Knowledge and Technical References                                                     Certification for OJT                                   Proficiency code used to indicate
                                                                                                                                                     training/information provided (For
                                                                                                                                                     notes, refer to the proficiency code
                                                                                                                                                     key on page 25)



                                                                                               A          B          C          D          E           A             B              C
                                                                                                                                                     3-Skill    5-Skill Level     7-Skill




                                                                         Wartime/Core Task
                                                                                                                                                     Level                        Level




                                                                                                                                                                                   (See Note)
                                                                                                        Complete
                                                                                             Training

                                                                                                        Training




                                                                                                                                         Certifier
                                                                                                                   Trainee

                                                                                                                              Trainer




                                                                                                                                                       Course




                                                                                                                                                                                     Course
                                                                                                                   Initials

                                                                                                                              Initials


                                                                                                                                          Initials
                                                                                              Start




                                                                                                                                                                            CDC
                                                                                                                                                                   OJT
1. MISSION AND ORGANIZATION TR: AFl 44-102, Medical Care Management; AFl 48-101, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise

1.a. USAF Medical Service/Flight Path                                                                                                                  A                    B
1.b. Aerospace Medical Operations                                                                                                                      A                    B
1.c. Public Health Operations
1.c.(1). Air National Guard                                                                                                                            A                    B
1.c.(2). Air Force Reserve                                                                                                                             A                    B
1.d. Relationships with local, state and federal public health, food                                                                                   A                    B
inspection, occupational safety and health agencies, and other
military branches/counterparts
2. COMMUNICATION SKILLS TR: AFH 33-337, Tongue and Quill; AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications; AFMAN 36-2236,
Guidebook for Air Force Instructors
2.a. Principles and elements                                                                    A
2.b. Effective writing
2.b.(1). Prepare written correspondence                                                                                                                1a         2b                 3c
2.b.(2). Email correspondence                                                                                                                          A          2b
2.c. Education and Training
2.c.(1). Prepare lectures and briefings                                 W/C                                                                            2b         3c
2.c.(2). Present lectures and briefings                                 W/C                                                                            2b         3c
3. SUPERVISION AND TRAINING TR: AFl 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted); AFl 36-2201, Air Force Training
Program; AFl 36-2618, The Enlisted Force Structure; Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory/Air Force Officer Classification Directory
(https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/app/login/redirect/home)
3.a. Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP)
3.a.(1). AFSC                                                                                                   A
3.a.(2). CFETP                                                                                                  A         B               C
3.a.(3). Proficiency Code Key                                                                                   A         B               C
3.a.(4). Evaluate personnel                                                                                               B              3c
3.a.(5). Electronic training records                                                                           2b         B              3c
3.b. Career ladder progression
3.b.(1). Progression in career ladder                                                                           A         B               C
3.b.(2). 4E031/4E051 duties                                                                                     A         B               C
3.b.(3). 4E071/4E091/4E000 duties                                                                               A         B               C
3.b.(4). MyDP                                                                                                   A         B               ₋
4. OFFICE MANAGEMENT TR: AFl 36-2110, Assignments; AFl 41-102, Air Force Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System (MEPRS)
for Fixed Military Medical and Dental Treatment Facilities; AFl 44-102, Medical Care Management; AFl 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and
Procedures; AFI 65-601, Volume 2, Budget Management for Operations; AFl 90-201, The Air Force Inspection Systems; Books from the Covey
Leadership Center (Seven Habits of Highly Effective People, Principle-Centered Leadership, The Power Principle, etc.); CSAF Reading Program
( http://www.af.mil/information/csafreading/index.asp); Most current versions of Microsoft Office Application Handbooks (Word, PowerPoint,
Access, and Excel); Self-help sections contained within ASIMS programs; Product Line Analysis Transformation Team (PLATT), Public Health

4.a. Prepare and update operating instructions                                                                                                                    2b                 3c
4.b. Use operating instructions                                                                                                                        1a         2b                 3c
4.c. Access electronic publications and policy                                                                                                         1a
4.d. Air Force inspection system                                                                                                                       A           B        B        C
4.e. Public Health metrics                                                                                                                             A           B                 C




                                                                       23
Task, Knowledge and Technical References                                                 Certification for OJT                                   Proficiency code used to indicate
                                                                                                                                                 training/information provided (For
                                                                                                                                                 notes, refer to the proficiency code
                                                                                                                                                 key on page 24)


                                                                                           A          B          C          D          E           A               B             C




                                                                     Wartime/Core Task
                                                                                                                                                 3-Skill      5-Skill Level    7-Skill
                                                                                                                                                 Level                         Level




                                                                                                                                                                                (See Note)
                                                                                                    Complete
                                                                                         Training

                                                                                                    Training




                                                                                                                                     Certifier
                                                                                                               Trainee

                                                                                                                          Trainer




                                                                                                                                                     Course




                                                                                                                                                                                  Course
                                                                                                               Initials

                                                                                                                          Initials


                                                                                                                                      Initials
                                                                                          Start




                                                                                                                                                                         CDC
                                                                                                                                                                OJT
4.f. Information Systems Management
4.f.(1). Desktop computer applications
4.f.(1).(a). Word                                                                                                                                  2b
4.f.(1).(b). PowerPoint                                            C                                                                               2b                             3c
4.f.(1).(c). Excel                                                 C                                                                               1a          2b                 3c
4.f.(1).(d). Access                                                                                                                                A           B
4.f.(2). PH computer applications
4.f.(2).(a). ASIMS WEB                                            W/C                                                                             2b           3c
4.f.(2).(b). AFRESS                                                                                                                                B           3c
4.f.(2).(c). ESSENCE                                               C                                                                               A           2b        A      3c
4.f.(2).(d). AFSAS                                                                                                                                1a           2b               3c
4.f.(2).(e). DOEHRS-HC                                             C                                                                              2b           2b               3c
                                                                                                                                                 Note 1       Note 1           Note 1
4.f.(2).(f). CHCS & AHLTA                                            C                                                                             A           2b               3c
4.f.(2).(g). EPI INFO                                                                                                                             1a           2b               3c
4.f.(2).(h). JMeWS                                                   W                                                                                         2b
4.g. Resource Management
4.g.(1). Supplies and equipment                                                                                        A                  B
4.g.(2). Budgetary process                                                                                             A                  B
4.g.(3). PH manpower requirements                                                                                               B         C
5. MEDICAL FUNDAMENTALS TR: Thibodeau and Patton, Structure and Function of the Body, 13th Edition, 2008; Cowan and Talaro,
Microbiology: A System Approach, 1st Edition, 2006; Marieb and Hoehn, Human Anatamy and Physiology, 8th Edition, 2010; Dorland's Illustrated
Medical Dictionary, 32nd Edition, W.B. Saunders Co., 2011; Mosby Nursing Consult User Guide; Mosby Nursing Consult, Knowledge Exchange
website; Manual of Nursing Practice, 9th Edition 101 Basic Nursing, Basic Medical Technician/Corpsman Program
5.a. Microbiology                                                                                           A                   B
5.b. Chemistry                                                                                              A                   B
5.c. Basic medical terminology and abbreviations                     W                                      A                   B
5.d. Medical Ethics                                                  W                                      A                   B
5.e. Legal aspects
5.e.(1). HIPPA                                                                                              A                   B
5.e.(2). Privacy Act                                                                                        A                   B
5.f. Make record
5.f.(1). Entries                                                    W/C                                     2b         2b       B
5.f.(2). Care extender protocol                                                                             2b         2b       B        2b
5.f.(3). Document patient education                                                                         A          B        B
5.g. Anatomy & Physiology of the Human Body
5.g.(1). Descriptive terms and topographic anatomy                   W                                      A                   B
5.g.(2). Major organs and systems                                    W                                      A                   B
5.g.(3). Human physiology                                            W                                      A                   B
5.g.(4). Fluid and chemical balance                                                                         A                   B
5.g.(5). Functions and adaptations of cells and tissues                                                     A                   B
5.g.(6). Thermal regulation                                                                                 A                   B
5.g.(7). Metabolism/energy production                                                                       A                   B
5.g.(8). Oxygenation and circulation                                                                        A                   B
5.g.(9). Nutrition and elimination                                                                          A                   B
5.g.(10). Activity and rest                                                                                 A                   B
5.g.(11). Protection and regulation                                                                         A                   B
5.g.(12). Reproduction                                                                                      A                   B
5.g.(13). Human growth, development, and the aging process                                                  A                   B




                                                                24
Task, Knowledge and Technical References                                                 Certification for OJT                                   Proficiency code used to indicate
                                                                                                                                                 training/information provided (For
                                                                                                                                                 notes, refer to the proficiency code
                                                                                                                                                 key on page 24)




                                                                     Wartime/Core Task
                                                                                           A          B          C          D          E           A               B             C
                                                                                                                                                 3-Skill      5-Skill Level    7-Skill
                                                                                                                                                 Level                         Level




                                                                                                                                                                                (See Note)
                                                                                                    Complete
                                                                                         Training

                                                                                                    Training




                                                                                                                                     Certifier
                                                                                                               Trainee

                                                                                                                          Trainer




                                                                                                                                                     Course




                                                                                                                                                                                  Course
                                                                                                               Initials

                                                                                                                          Initials


                                                                                                                                      Initials
                                                                                          Start




                                                                                                                                                                         CDC
                                                                                                                                                                OJT
5.h. Basic Human Needs Theory
5.h.(1). Personal hygiene                                           C                                          A                   B
5.h.(2). Environmental/community health                             C                                          A                   B
5.h.(3). Nutrition and exercise                                     C                                          A                   B
5.h.(4). Psychological adjustments mental health                                                               A                   B
5.h.(5). Substance abuse                                                                                       A                   B
5.h.(6). Body defenses and healing processes                                                                   A                   B
6. FORCE HEALTH MANAGEMENT TR: AFI 10-203, Duty Limiting Conditions; AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program; AFI 41-210, Tricare
Operations and Patient Administration Functions; AFI 44-170, Preventive Health Assessment; AFOSH STD 48-9, Electro-Magnetic Frequency (EMF)
Radiation Occupational Health Program; AFOSH STD 48-20, Occupational Noise and Hearing Conservation Program; AFI 48-101, Aerospace
Medicine Enterprise; AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards; AFOSH STD 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program; AFI 48-145,
Occupational and Environmental Health Program; AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication; AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports; DoDI
6050.05, DoD Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program; DoDI 6055.05, Occupational and Environmental Health; DoDI 6055.12, Hearing
Conservation Program (HCP); DoD 6055.05-M, Occupational Medical Examinations and Surveillance Manual; PEPP Program User Guide;
AIMWTS User Guide; HQ AETC Physical Standards AFMS Knowledge Exchange website
(https://kx.afms.mil/kxweb/dotmil/kj.do?functionalArea=AETCPhysStandards); www.osha.gov (Occupational Safety & Health Administration);
www.cdc.gov/niosh (The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health); phc.amedd.army.mil/Pages/default.aspx (U.S. Army Public
Health Command); www-nehc.med.navy.mil (Navy and Marine Corps Public Health Center); U.S. Air Force Preventive Health Assessment Guide,
June 2010; Sutter, Council for the Accreditation of Occupational Hearing Conservation: Hearing Conservation Manual, 4th Edition, 2010;
Casarett and Doull's, Toxicology, 7th Edition, 2007; Proctor & Hughes, Chemical Hazards of the Workplace, 5th Edition, 2004; K.H.E Kroener and
E. Grudjean, Fitting the Task to the Human: A Textbook of Occupational Ergonomics, 5th Edition, 1997; Thad Godish, Sick Buildings: Definition,
Diagnosis, and Mitigation, 1995; Threshold Limit Values (TLVs) and Biological Exposure Indices (BEIs), Published by the American Conference of
Governmental Hygienists
6.a. Medical Intelligence Functions and Responsibilities
6.a.(1). Conduct deployment health risk assessments                  C                                         1a          2b      b        3c
6.a.(2). Prepare and conduct deployment health threat briefings      C                                         2b          3c      b        3c
6.a.(3). Prepare and conduct pre/post deployment health              C                                         2b          3c      b        3c
screening
6.b. Preventive Health Assessment
6.b.(1). Update ASIMS Web                                            C                                         2b          3c      b        3c
6.b.(2). Coordinate with Unit Health Monitors                                                                  2b          3c      b        3c
6.b.(3). Schedule PHA                                                                                          2b          3c      b        3c
6.b.(4). Conduct medical record reviews                              C                                         2b          3c      b        3c
6.b.(5). Military (mobility) unique requirements                                                               2b          3c      b        3c
6.b.(6). Conduct patient interviews                                  C                                         2b          3c      b        3c
6.b.(7). Record medical history                                      C                                         2b          3c      b        3c
6.b.(8). Provide primary preventive counseling                       C                                         2b          3c      b        3c
6.b.(9). WEB HA Review and Referrals                                 C                                         2b          3c      b        3c
6.b.(10). Height (standing)                                        W/C                                         2b          3c      b        3c
6.b.(11). Manual Blood Pressure                                                                                2b          3c      b        3c
6.b.(12). Weight                                                   W/C                                         2b          3c      b        3c
6.b.(13). Distant Visual Acuity (Snellen Eye Chart)                W/C                                         2b          3c      b        3c




                                                                25
Task, Knowledge and Technical References                                                    Certification for OJT                                   Proficiency code used to indicate
                                                                                                                                                    training/information provided (For
                                                                                                                                                    notes, refer to the proficiency code
                                                                                                                                                    key on page 24)

                                                                                              A          B          C          D          E           A              B             C




                                                                        Wartime/Core Task
                                                                                                                                                    3-Skill     5-Skill Level    7-Skill
                                                                                                                                                    Level                        Level




                                                                                                                                                                                  (See Note)
                                                                                                       Complete
                                                                                            Training

                                                                                                       Training




                                                                                                                                        Certifier
                                                                                                                  Trainee

                                                                                                                             Trainer




                                                                                                                                                      Course




                                                                                                                                                                                    Course
                                                                                                                  Initials

                                                                                                                             Initials


                                                                                                                                         Initials
                                                                                             Start




                                                                                                                                                                           CDC
                                                                                                                                                                  OJT
6.b.(14). Update electronic DD Form 2766/2766C, Adult                                                                                                 2b         3c        b        3c
Preventive and Chronic Care Flowsheet
6.b.(15). Daily reports                                                                                                                               1A         2b        b
6.c. Occupational Health
6.c.(1). Functions and Responsibilities
6.c.(1).(a). Occupational safety and health programs                    C                                                                             A                    B        C
6.c.(1).(b). USAF occupational safety and health programs                                                                                             A                    B        C
6.c.(2). Basics of Industrial Operations
6.c.(2).(a). Toxicology                                                                                                                               A                    B        C
6.c.(2).(b). Potential Occupational Hazards
6.c.(2).(b).(1). Chemical                                                                                                                             A                    B        C
6.c.(2).(b).(2). Physical                                                                                                                             A                    B        C
6.c.(2).(b).(3). Biological                                                                                                                           A                    B        C
6.c.(2).(c). Determine Occupational Health Education
Requirements
6.c.(2).(c).(1). Perform risk-based occupational health shop visits     C                                                                             a          2b        b        3c
6.c.(2).(c).(2). OSHA education and training                            C                                                                             A                    B        C
6.c.(2).(d). Occupational safety and health education
6.c.(2).(d).(1). Personal hygiene                                                                                                                     A                    A        A
6.c.(2).(d).(2). Occupational hazards (Such as: lead, benzene, etc.)                                                                                  A                    B        C
6.c.(2).(d).(3). Hazard communication and material safety data                                                                                        A                    B
sheets (MSDS)
6.c.(2).(d).(4). Personal protective equipment                          C                                                                             A                    B
6.c.(2).(d).(5). Ergonomics                                                                                                                           A                    B
6.c.(2).(d).(6). MTF occupational and employee health program                                                                                         A                    B        C
6.c.(2).(d).(7). Fetal protection and reproductive health               C                                                                             A                    B        C
6.c.(2).(d).(8). Asbestos awareness training                                                                                                          A                    A
6.c.(3). Occupational Illness and Injury
6.c.(3).(a). Distinguish between illness and injury                                                                                                    b         2b        b        3c
6.c.(3).(b). Investigate occupational illnesses                         C                                                                              b         2b        b        3c
6.c.(3).(c). Report occupational illnesses                                                                                                             b         2b        b        3c
6.d. Occupational Exam
6.d.(1). Review occupational exposure data                                                                                                            1a         2b        b        3c
6.d.(2). Types of examinations                                                                                                                        A                    B        C
6.d.(3). Identify occupational exam and regulatory requirements                                                                                       1a         2b        b        3c
6.d.(4). Identify target organs                                                                                                                       1a         2b        b        3c
6.d.(5). Perform quality control on occupational health exams           C                                                                              a         2b        a        3c
6.d.(6). Conduct occupational health trend analysis                     C                                                                             A          2b        b        3c
6.e. Indoor air quality complaints                                                                                                                    A          A         A
6.f. Hearing Conservation
6.f.(1). Hearing Conservation Program                                                                                                               Note 1     Note 1            Note 1
6.f.(1).(a). Physical properties of sound                                                                                                             B                    B       B
6.f.(1).(b). Structure and Function of the ear                                                                                                        B                    B       B
6.f.(1).(c). Role and Responsibilities                                                                                                                B                    B       B
6.f.(1).(d). Hearing Conservation Program management                                                                                                  B                    B       B
6.f.(1).(e). Select fit and educate on protective devices                                                                                            2b         2b         B       2b
6.f.(2). DOEHRS-HC                                                                                                                                  Note 1     Note 1            Note 1
6.f.(2).(a). Conduct occupational audio testing                         C                                                                            3c                    b       3c
6.f.(2).(b). Audiometer calibration check                               C                                                                            3c                    b       3c
6.f.(2).(c). Identification of STS                                      C                                                                            2b          2b        b       3c
6.f.(2).(d). Process audio forms/referrals                              C                                                                            2b                    b       3c
6.f.(2).(e). Fitness and Risk Evaluations                                                                                                             A                    B
6.f.(2).(f). Documentation of noise exposed personnel                   C                                                                            2b                    b        3c




                                                                       26
Task, Knowledge and Technical References                                                  Certification for OJT                                   Proficiency code used to indicate
                                                                                                                                                  training/information provided (For
                                                                                                                                                  notes, refer to the proficiency code
                                                                                                                                                  key on page 24)

                                                                                            A          B          C          D          E           A             B              C




                                                                      Wartime/Core Task
                                                                                                                                                  3-Skill    5-Skill Level     7-Skill
                                                                                                                                                  Level                        Level




                                                                                                                                                                                (See Note)
                                                                                                     Complete
                                                                                          Training

                                                                                                     Training




                                                                                                                                      Certifier
                                                                                                                Trainee

                                                                                                                           Trainer




                                                                                                                                                    Course




                                                                                                                                                                                  Course
                                                                                                                Initials

                                                                                                                           Initials


                                                                                                                                       Initials
                                                                                           Start




                                                                                                                                                                         CDC
                                                                                                                                                                OJT
6.g. Medical Treatment Facility/Base Employee Health Program
6.g.(1). Monitor follow up of those exposed to bloodborne                                                           a         2b        b        3c
pathogens
6.g.(2). Monitor follow up of those exposed to airborne pathogens       C                                           a         2b        a        3c
6.g.(3). Monitor immune status and make recommendations                 C                                           a         2b        b        3c
6.g.(4). Infection control                                                                                          A                   B
6.h. Reproductive Health Program
6.h.(1). Program fundamentals                                                                                       A                   B        C
6.h.(2). Interview/educate pregnant workers on potential fetal                                                      b         2b        b        3c
hazards
6.h.(3). Interview supervisors                                                                                      b         2b        b        3c
6.h.(4). Recommend restrictions based on available data                 C                                           a         2b        b        3c
7. COMMUNITY HEALTH TR: AFI 10-246, Food and Water Protection Program; AFI 34-248, Child Development Centers; AFI 34-276, Family
Child Care Programs; AFI 44-108, Infection Prevention and Control Program; AFI 48-105, Surveillance, Prevention, and Control of Diseases and
Conditions of Public Health or Military Significance; AFI 48-116, Food Safety Program; AFI 48-117, Public Facility Sanitation; AFI 48-135, Human
Immunodeficiency Virus Program; AFJI 48-110, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis; AFJI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services; DoD 4145.19-R-l,
Storage and Material Handling; VETCOM Circular 40-1, Worldwide Directory of Sanitarily Approved Food Establishments for Armed Forces
Procurement; DLA Troop Support Handbook 4155.2, Inspection of Composite Operational Rations; DeCA Directives 40-3 through 40-6
(www.commissaries.com/inside_deca/publications/directives/directives_index.cfm); Joint Receipt Food Inspection Manual; Joint Surveillance Food
Inspection Manual; Interstate Certified Shellfish Shippers List; Interstate Milk Shippers List; US Department of Commerce Approved List of
Fish Establishments and Products; Dairy Plants Surveyed and Approved for USDA Grading Service; Directory of Grading Offices and Plants
Operating Under USDA Poultry and Egg Grading Programs; Potter and Hotchkiss, Food Science, 5th Edition, 1999; Hubbert, Food Safety and
Quality Assurance-Foods of Animal Origin, 2nd Edition, 1996; Cliver, Foodborne Diseases, 2nd Edition, 2002; Jay, Loessner, and Golden, Modern
Food Microbiology, 7th Edition, 2005; Microbial Examination of Foods, American Public Health Association, 4th Edition, 2001; McSwane,
Essentials of Food Safety and Sanitation, 4th Edition, 2004; HACCP Reference Book, National Restaurant Association, 1993; Procedures to
Investigate Foodborne Illness, 6th Edition, International Association of Food Protection, 2011; Procedures to Investigate Waterborne Illness, 2nd
Edition, International Association of Food Protection, 2002; Heymann, Control of Communicable Diseases Manual, 19th Edition, 2008; Current
CDC STD Treatment Guidelines; DeCA Contract Quality Assurance Provisions; 2005 FDA Food Code (with Air Force changes); DoD Veterinary
Food and Diagnostic Laboratory Sample Submission Guide; Natick Guide to the Salvage of Foods Exposed to Refrigeration Failure (Air Force
version, 1997); Current Food Defense Handbook. Current version; CDC Self Study Course SS-1978, Principles of Epidemiology in Public Health
Practice, 3rd Edition
7.a. Food Safety
7.a.(1). Functions and responsibilities                                                                             A                   B
7.b. Food Chemistry and Microbiology
7.b.(1). Temperature                                                                                                B                   B
7.b.(2). Irradiation                                                                                                A                   A
7.b.(3). Water activity                                                                                             B                   B
7.b.(4). PH, oxidation-reduction potential and organic acids                                                        B                   B
7.b.(5). Preservation techniques, food packaging, and anti-                                                         A                   B
microbial properties
7.b.(6). Food pathogens                                                                                             B                   B
7.c. Causes of Food Deterioration/Spoilage
7.c.(1). Meat products                                                  C                                           A                   B
7.c.(2). Waterfood products                                             C                                           A                   B
7.c.(3). Egg products                                                   C                                           A                   B
7.c.(4). Dairy products                                                 C                                           A                   B
7.c.(5). Fresh fruits and vegetables                                    C                                           A                   B
7.c.(6). Semi-perishables                                               C                                           A                   B




                                                                  27
Task, Knowledge and Technical References                                                       Certification for OJT                                Proficiency code used to indicate
                                                                                                                                                    training/information provided (For
                                                                                                                                                    notes, refer to the proficiency code
                                                                                                                                                    key on page 24)

                                                                                                A        B          C          D          E           A               B             C




                                                                           Wartime/Core Task
                                                                                                                                                    3-Skill      5-Skill Level    7-Skill
                                                                                                                                                    Level                         Level




                                                                                                                                                                                   (See Note)
                                                                                                       Complete




                                                                                                                                        Certifier
                                                                                                                  Trainee

                                                                                                                             Trainer




                                                                                                                                                        Course




                                                                                                                                                                                     Course
                                                                                                                  Initials

                                                                                                                             Initials


                                                                                                                                         Initials
                                                                                               Start
                                                                                               Trng

                                                                                                         Trng




                                                                                                                                                                            CDC
                                                                                                                                                                   OJT
7.d. Principles and Techniques of Storing
7.d.(1). Semi-perishables                                              C                                                                              A                     B
7.d.(2). Perishables                                                   C                                                                              A                     B
7.e. Approved Sources of Food
7.e.(1). Identify foods that require source approval                   C                                                                              2b          3c        b
7.e.(2). Use the Appropriate Approved Source
7.e.(2).(a). Meat products                                             C                                                                              2b                    b         c
7.e.(2).(b). Poultry products                                          C                                                                              2b                    b         c
7.e.(2).(c). Waterfood products                                        C                                                                              2b                    b         c
7.e.(2).(d). Dairy products                                            C                                                                              2b                    b         c
7.e.(2).(e). Bakery products                                           C                                                                              2b                    b         c
7.e.(2).(f). Other items listed in Circular 40-1 (not identified       C                                                                              2b                    b         c
above)
7.e.(2).(g). Locally approved source listing                           C                                                                               b                    B         c
7.f. Use food inspection manuals and directives (Joint Receipt         C                                                                               b                    b         c
Inspection Manual, Joint Surveillance Inspection Manual)
7.g. Monitor Temperatures                                              C                                                                              2b                    b         c
7.h. Evaluate Safety and Security of Foods on Receipt
7.h.(1). Perform receipt inspection of food                                                                                                            b          2b        b        3c
7.h.(2). Prepare food safety/vulnerability provisions for local and    C                                                                               a          2b        b        3c
contingency contracts
7.i. Evaluate Safety of Foods During Storage
7.i.(1). Perform surveillance inspections                              C                                                                               -          2b        b        3c
7.i.(2). Investigate Food Quality Reports (DeCA Form 40-45)                                                                                            b          2b        b        3c
7.i.(3). Perform investigations on food recalls (i.e. FDA recalls,     C                                                                               b          2b        b        3c
ALFOODACT)
7.j. Evaluate security of foods during storage                                                                                                         b           b
7.k. Operational Rations
7.k.(1). Purpose and terminology                                                                                                                      B                     B        B
7.k.(2). Perform operational rations inspection                        W                                                                              b           2b        b        3c
7.l. Recommend disposition of damaged/distressed/expired foods         C                                                                              b           2b        b        3c
7.m. Analysis Procedures
7.m.(1). Fundamentals of microbiological testing                       W/C                                                                            B                     B
7.m.(2). Collect, prepare and forward food samples for shipment        W/C                                                                            b           2b        b
7.m.(3). Conduct field microbiological analysis of suspect food         C                                                                             2b          2b        b        3c
(i.e., High Microbial Load Kit)
7.m.(4). Perform sensory analysis of food samples                                                                                                     2b          2b        b        3c
7.m.(5). Perform pH analysis of food samples                                                                                                          A           2b        b        3c
7.m.(6). Make recommendations based on analysis                                                                                                        a          2b        b        3c
7.n. Fundamentals of the Food Code                                     W                                                                              A           B         B        C
7.o. Perform sanitation and food defense evaluations of food           C                                                                              2b          2b        b        3c
processing, storage and serving facilities using the FDA Food
Code
7.p. Foodhandler Knowledge and Training
7.p.(1). Employee and supervisor training plans                                                                                                       A                     B
7.p.(2). Conduct foodhandler supervisor training                                                                                                      a           2b        b
7.q. Perform evaluations of off-base food processing, storage and      C                                                                              a           2b        b       2b
serving facilities
7.r. Perform trend analysis for facility sanitation                                                                                                    a          2b        b        3c
7.s. Prepare Written Reports
7.s.(1). Document recommendations regarding public health              C                                                                              2b          2b        b        3c
evaluations (i.e. AF Form 977 or local checklist)
7.s.(2). Use evaluation findings to rate facilities                    C                                                                              2b                    b        3c
7.t. Foodborne/waterborne disease outbreak investigations                                                                                             A                     B        C



                                                                      28
Task, Knowledge and Technical References                                                  Certification for OJT                                   Proficiency code used to indicate
                                                                                                                                                  training/information provided (For
                                                                                                                                                  notes, refer to the proficiency code
                                                                                                                                                  key on page 24)

                                                                                            A          B          C          D          E           A             B              C




                                                                      Wartime/Core Task
                                                                                                                                                  3-Skill    5-Skill Level     7-Skill
                                                                                                                                                  Level                        Level




                                                                                                                                                                                (See Note)
                                                                                                     Complete
                                                                                          Training

                                                                                                     Training




                                                                                                                                      Certifier
                                                                                                                Trainee

                                                                                                                           Trainer




                                                                                                                                                    Course




                                                                                                                                                                                  Course
                                                                                                                Initials

                                                                                                                           Initials


                                                                                                                                       Initials
                                                                                           Start




                                                                                                                                                                         CDC
                                                                                                                                                                 OJT
7.u. Principles of Food Defense
7.u.(1). Food vulnerability assessment (FVA) protocol                                                                                               A          B         A        C
7.u.(2). Perform FVA                                              W/C                                                                               -          2b        -        3c
7.u.(3). Gather threat information (i.e. Intel, OSI, local law    W/C                                                                               A           -        -         -
enforcement)
7.v. Principles of Epidemiology
7.v.(1). Functions and responsibilities                                                                                                             A                    B
7.v.(2). Agent, host, and environmental factors                   W                                                                                 B                    B
7.v.(3) Intro to Biostatistics
7.v.(3).(a). Key terms                                                                                                                              A                    A
7.v.(3).(b). Principles of surveillance                                                                                                             A                    A
7.v.(3).(c). Compile and maintain data                                                                                                              1a         2b                 3c
7.v.(3).(d). Identify and evaluate trends                                                                                                           1a         2b                 3c
7.v.(4). Epidemiological investigations (10 steps)                W/C                                                                               A                    B        C
7.v.(5). Risk assessments (i.e. TB, influenza, immunizations)                                                                                       A                    B        C
7.w. Principles of Communicable Disease Control
7.w.(1). Functions and responsibilities                                                                                                             A                    A
7.w.(2). Communicable diseases
7.w.(2).(a). Sexually transmitted diseases                        W/C                                                                               B                    B
7.w.(2).(b). Rabies                                               W/C                                                                               B                    B
7.w.(2).(c).Viral Hepatitis                                       W/C                                                                               B                    B
7.w.(2).(d). HIV                                                  W/C                                                                               B                    B
7.w.(2).(e). Tuberculosis                                         W/C                                                                               B                    B
7.w.(2).(f). Influenza                                            W/C                                                                               B                    B
7.w.(2).(g). Emerging/reemerging diseases of operational          W/C                                                                               A                    B
importance
7.x. Modes of Transmission
7.x.(1). Direct                                                   C                                                                                 B                    B
7.x.(2). Indirect                                                 C                                                                                 B                    B
7.x.(3). Airborne                                                 C                                                                                 B                    B
7.y. Principles of Immunology                                                                                                                       B                    B
7.z. Prophylaxis treatment                                                                                                                          B                    B
7.aa. Conduct Communicable Disease Intervention
7.aa.(1). Interview patients                                      W/C                                                                               2b                   b
7.aa.(2). Educate patients on disease prevention and control      W/C                                                                               2b                   b
7.aa.(3). Initiate and report events                              W/C                                                                               2b
7. bb. Public Facilities
7.bb.(1). Fundamentals of public facility sanitation                                                                                                A                    B
7.cc. Perform evaluations of public facilities
7.cc.(1). Barber and beauty shops*                                C                                                                                 A          2b        b
7.cc.(2). Child development centers*                              C                                                                                 A          2b        b
7.cc.(3). Family child care*                                      C                                                                                 A          2b        b
7.cc.(4). Contract quarters                                                                                                                         A          2b        b
7.cc.(5). Living quarters                                                                                                                           A          2b
7.cc.(6). Services facilities                                                                                                                       A          2b




                                                                 29
Task, Knowledge and Technical References                                               Certification for OJT                                   Proficiency code used to
                                                                                                                                               indicate training/information
                                                                                                                                               provided (For notes, refer to the
                                                                                                                                               proficiency code key on page
                                                                                                                                               24)
                                                                                         A          B          C          D          E           A            B            C




                                                                   Wartime/Core Task
                                                                                                                                               3-Skill      5-Skill      7-Skill
                                                                                                                                               Level        Level        Level




                                                                                                                                                                          (See Note)
                                                                                                  Complete
                                                                                       Training

                                                                                                  Training




                                                                                                                                   Certifier
                                                                                                             Trainee

                                                                                                                        Trainer




                                                                                                                                                   Course




                                                                                                                                                                            Course
                                                                                                             Initials

                                                                                                                        Initials


                                                                                                                                    Initials
                                                                                        Start




                                                                                                                                                                  CDC
                                                                                                                                                            OJT
8. MEDICAL ENTOMOLOGY TR: AFI 32-1053, Integrated Pest Management Program; AFI 32-1074, Aerial Application of Pesticides; AFI 48-
102, Medical Entomology Program; AFJI 48-104, Quarantine Regulations of the Armed Forces; Armed Forces Pest Management Board
(AFPMB), Technical Guide (TG) 24, Contingency Pest Management Guide; AFPMB- TG 36, Personal Protective Measures Against Insects and
Other Arthropods of Military Significance; Degesch America Inc. Principle Storage Pest booklet
8.a. Functions and responsibilities                                                                         A            B       B
                                                                                                                               Note 2
                                                                                                                               (OEC)
8.b. Vector identification                                           W                                      A            b       2b
                                                                                                                               Note 2
                                                                                                                               (OEC)
8.c. Medical Entomology in Military Operations
8.c.(1). Biology of selected arthropods and rodents                                                         A            B       C
                                                                                                                               Note 2
                                                                                                                               (OEC)
8.c.(2). Conduct Pest, Vector, and Disease Surveillance
8.c.(2).(a). Determine surveillance needs                            W                                      a     2b     b       3c
                                                                                                                               Note 2
                                                                                                                               (OEC)
8.c.(2).(b). Set up collection sites and traps                      W/C                                    2b            b       3c
                                                                                                                               Note 2
                                                                                                                               (OEC)
8.c.(2).(c). Sort and count specimens                                W                                     2b            b       2b
                                                                                                                               Note 2
                                                                                                                               (OEC)
8.c.(2).(d). Pack and ship specimens                                W/C                                    2b            b       2b
                                                                                                                               Note 2
                                                                                                                               (OEC)
8.c.(2).(e). Review lab results                                                                             a            b       2b
                                                                                                                               Note 2
                                                                                                                               (OEC)
8.c.(3). Make recommendations for prevention and control of         W/C                                     a     2b     b       3c
vectors and pests                                                                                                              Note 2
                                                                                                                               (OEC)
8.c.(4). Make recommendations for personal protection measures      W/C                                     a     2b     b       3c
                                                                                                                               Note 2
                                                                                                                               (OEC)
8.c.(5). Evaluate effectiveness of pest management program                                                  a            b        b
                                                                                                                               Note 2
                                                                                                                               (OEC)
8.d. DoD Pre-Clearance Program
8.d.(1). Purpose and terminology                                                                            A            A       A
                                                                                                                               Note 2
                                                                                                                               (OEC)
8.d.(2). Functions and responsibilities                                                                     A            A       A
                                                                                                                               Note 2
                                                                                                                               (OEC)




                                                              30
 Task, Knowledge and Technical References                                                  Certification for OJT                                   Proficiency code used to
                                                                                                                                                   indicate training/information
                                                                                                                                                   provided (For notes, refer to
                                                                                                                                                   the proficiency code key on
                                                                                                                                                   page 24)
                                                                                             A          B          C          D          E           A           B            C




                                                                      Wartime/Core Task?
                                                                                                                                                   3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill
                                                                                                                                                   Level       Level        Level




                                                                                                                                                                             (See Note)
                                                                                                      Complete
                                                                                           Training

                                                                                                      Training




                                                                                                                                       Certifier
                                                                                                                 Trainee

                                                                                                                            Trainer




                                                                                                                                                      Course




                                                                                                                                                                               Course
                                                                                                                 Initials

                                                                                                                            Initials


                                                                                                                                        Initials
                                                                                            Start




                                                                                                                                                                      CDC
                                                                                                                                                               OJT
9. DEPLOYED/DISASTER RELIEF TR: Medical Operations: AFDD 4-02, Health Services; AFH 10-222, Vol. 1, Guide to Bare Base
Development; AFH 10-222, Vol. 2, Guide to Bare Base Assets; AFH 10-222, Vol. 4, Environmental Guide for Contingency Operations; AFPAM
10-219, Vol. 1, Contingency & Disaster Planning; AFPAM 10-219, Vol. 2, Civil Engineering Disaster and Attack Preparations; AFPAM 10-219,
Vol. 3, Civil Engineering Disaster and Attack Recovery Procedures; AFPAM 10-219, Vol. 5, Bare Base Conceptual Planning; AFI 10-250,
Individual Medical Readiness; AFI 10-402, Vol. 1, Mobilization Planning; AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution; AFI 10-404, Base
Support and Expeditionary Site Planning; AFMAN 10-2503, Operations in a Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield
Explosive (CBRNE) Environment; AFI 16-606, Foreign Clearance Program; AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (SERE)
Program; AFJI 23-504, Radioactive Commodities in the DoD Supply System; AFI 25-101, War Reserve Material Program Guidance and
Procedures; AFI Interservice 31-30, Enemy Prisoners of War, Retained Personnel, Civilian Internees and Other Detainees; AFMAN 32-4006,
Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical (NBC) Mask Fit and Liquid Hazard Simulant Training; AFI 33-102, Communications and Information
Specialized Publications; AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program; AFPD 34-5, Mortuary Affairs; AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Program; AFI
36-2644, Self-Aid and Buddy Care Training; AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Program Management; AFI 41-301, Worldwide Aeromedical
Evacuation System; AFJMAN 44-149, Treatment of Chemical Agent Casualties and Conventional Military Chemical Injuries; AFI 48-101,
Aerospace Medicine Enterprise; s; AFJI 48-10, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis; 14P3-1-141, Chemical Protective Ensemble; 14P4-15-1,
MCU-2/P Chemical Biological Mask; 14P4-1-151, C-2 Canister and Filter Element Procedures; FM 21-10, Field Sanitation and Hygiene; FM
21-10-1, Unit Field Sanitation and Hygiene; FM 21-76, Survival; Navy Environmental Health Center (NEHC) Standard Operation Procedure
for Environmental Health Site Assessments; AFMAN 32-4017, CE Manual for NBC Defense; Joint Publication 3-41, Chemical, Biological,
Radiological, Nuclear and High-Yield Explosive Consequence Management
9.a. Conduct training (i.e., Medical Intelligence, field           W/C                                        2b       2b    b       3c
hygiene/sanitation, risk communication)
9.b. Recommend Site Selection Requirements for Placement,
Construction, and Sustainment of:
9.b.(1). Living areas                                              W/C                                         a       2b    b       3c
9.b.(2). Food facilities                                           W/C                                         a       2b    b       3c
9.b.(3). Medical treatment facility                                W/C                                         a       2b    b       3c
9.b.(4). Latrines, showers, and hand washing facilities            W/C                                         a       2b    b       3c
9.b.(5). Waste and refuse disposal facilities                      W/C                                         a       2b    b       3c
9.c. Identify and Monitor
9.c.(1). Potable water sources                                     W/C                                         a       2b    b       3c
9.c.(2). Safe food sources                                         W/C                                         a       2b    b       3c
9.d. After action report                                            W                                                  B     A       C
9.e. CBRNE agents
9.e.(1). Characteristics                                            W                                         A              B       B
9.e.(2). Roles and Responsibilities                                 W                                         A              B       B
9.f. Team functions and responsibilities for Operations Other       W                                         B              B       B
Than War (OOTW)
9.g. Team functions and responsibilities for war                    W                                         B              B       B




                                                               31
Part II, Section B Course Objective List

1. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows:

1.1. “W” indicates task or subject knowledge, which is measured using a written test.

1.2. “PC” indicates required task performance, which is measured with a performance progress check.

1.3. “P” indicates required task performance, which is measured with a performance test.

1.4. “PW/C” indicates separate measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a
written test and a performance progress check.

2. Standard. The standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for performance measurement
are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress checklist. Instructor assistance is
provided as needed during the progress check, and students may be required to repeat all or part of the
behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.

3. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level, which means the
student can do most parts of the task but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially
proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.

Part II, Section C – Support Material

1. Public Health Task Breakdown Library: This resource is available at the PH CFM Knowledge
Exchange site at:
https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx6/PublicHealthCFM/Pages/home.aspx?functionalArea=PublicHealthCFM.

2. Readiness Skills Verification Program training can be accessed at the following site:
https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx9/RSVP/Pages/home.aspx?functionalArea=RSVP

Part II, Section D – Training Course Index Access the ETCA at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ for a full
description of each course offering and prerequisites, if any.

1. Air Force In-Residence Courses (Courses located at USAFSAM)

1.1. Initial Skills Course: Public Health Apprentice (B3ABY4E031 0A1C): Provides knowledge and
basic skills to perform entry-level duties as a public health apprentice.

1.2. Advanced Skills Courses

1.2.1. Contingency Preventive Medicine Course (B30ZY4XXX 0B1C): The Contingency Preventive
Medicine course is primarily designed for Public Health personnel whose mission includes: field
preventive medicine tasks during wartime contingencies, terrorist incidents, operations other than war
(OOTW), or natural disaster situations. Course curriculum includes Public Health responsibilities prior to
and during contingency operations

1.2.2. Operational Entomology (B3XZYOECXX 0A1A): Builds individual capabilities to perform
surveillance and control for disease vectors that significantly impact military missions during war or
OOTW.



                                                     32
1.2.3. Public Health Management Workshop (B3OZYPHMWX 0A1A) is designed to teach junior officers
and senior enlisted of the PH flight management principles to include; proper management and execution
of standardized processes in the areas of Force Health Management, Community Health, Occupational
Health, Health Services Inspection, and Readiness Skills Programs.

1.2.4. Force Health Management Workshop (Course TBD) is designed to teach new section NCOIC's
Force Health Management principles to include; Deployment Health, Travel Medicine, PHA's, and IMR
rates.

1.2.5. Occupational Health Work Shop (Course TBD) is designed to teach new section NCOIC's
Occupational Health Management principles to include: shop visits, Occupational Health Medical Exams
(OHMEs), trend analysis, illness/injuries, fetal protection, medical employee health and hearing
conservation programs.

1.2.6. Community Health Work Shop (Course TBD) is designed to teach new section NCOIC's
Community Health Management principles to include: communicable diseases and reporting,
vectorborne and zoonotic diseases, surveillance, epidemiology, food safety and sanitation and foodborne
investigations.

2. Education, Logistics, and Communications (A4/6) Courses and Exportable/Distance Learning
Courses

2.1. CDC 4E051: Public Health Journeyman Career Development Course

2.2. Contingency Preventive Medicine Distance Learning Module (B6OZY4XXXX 0C1A): This is the
distance learning prerequisite to in-residence Contingency Preventive Medicine course attendance.

Part II, Section E MAJCOM-Unique Requirements

1. The Air Reserve Component (ARC), comprised of Air National Guard and Air Force Reserves, have a
medical standards and profiles management exception to policy. Medical standards, profile/duty-limiting
conditions/waiver management, and audiometric testing (non-deployable mission requirements) will be
retained by the 4N0X1 or 4A0X1 as decided by the MAJCOM ARC. The 4E0X1 positions within the
ARC are maintained by UTC requirement. The STS indicates core tasks applicable to the total force.
Those core tasks designated with an asterisk (*) are not applicable to the ARC.

2. ARC members called to active duty will receive training for asterisk (*) designated tasks.

2.1. Prior to performing audiometric testing, ARC members must receive initial Hearing Conservation
Certification (HCC) training. USAFSAM will allow ARC 4E0X1s, 4N0X1s or 4A0X1s (or civilian
equivalent) to attend HCC courses (initial or recertification).

Part II, Section F Training Development & Documentation (Medical Specific)

1. Work Center Training Plan. The purpose of this section is to provide guidelines and examples of
proper documentation for the many electronic forms used in training of all enlisted medical personnel.
Training documentation helps to assess readiness capability, individual strengths and weaknesses. It also
aids compliance with all Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care, The Joint Commission,
and Health Services Inspections regulatory requirements. The enlisted training documentation has
migrated from the hard copy to electronic AFTR. AFTR is accessible from the ADLS via the AF Portal.
Refer to your unit training manager for the most current policies and guidance on training documentation.


                                                    33
1.1. Master Training Plan (MTP)
1.1.1. A MTP is a reference guide developed for each section that includes all facets of training for
individuals assigned. It is used as a reference source for the type of training and training documentation
that occurs with each assigned member. The MTP is used to standardize training and provide trainers,
trainees, supervisors, and NCOICs an overview of the training process for the duty section. Training
managers will incorporate the MTP into AFTR.
1.1.2. The MTP is an overview of training for the duty section, and should include all information
involved in the training process for the duty section. Training will vary from section to section and
person to person; however, certain documents will be a standard requirement for all MTPs. They are
listed below:
1.1.2.1. Master task list (MTL). The MTL identifies all day-to-day mission (duty position) requirements,
core tasks, local and contingency tasks, and additional duties performed by work center personnel.
1.1.2.2. Current CFETP or AFJQS (if available).
1.1.2.3. Locally developed AF Form 797, which is now accessible in AFTR.
1.1.2.4. Milestones for tasks and CDC completion (identify the projected time frame the trainee will
complete their core tasks and each set of CDCs as required).
1.1.2.5. Unit-Specific Orientation Checklist
1.1.2.6. Job descriptions/performance standards
1.1.2.7. QTPs required to perform peacetime/wartime duties. Recommendation: Each MTP should have
an official memorandum from the work-center supervisor addressing key issues particular to the work
center, and implementation of the MTP.
1.2. AFTR
1.2.1. AFTR serves as the single, automated repository for all medical enlisted specialty training.
Consult the most current AFTR training message for detailed instructions regarding automated training
documentation requirements.
1.2.2. Documentation. Use the automated AFTR to document all technician qualifications. NOTE: An
AFJQS may be used in lieu of Part II of the CFETP only upon approval of the AFCFM. The AFCFM
may supplement these minimum documentation procedures as needed or deemed necessary for their
career field.
1.2.3. USAFSAM will initiate an AFTR records upon enrollment of all students into the Public Health
Apprentice Course. Students and staff will review and sign entries when required. Additionally,
USAFSAM will upload training progress documentation and, upon graduation, forward the AFTR record
to the gaining base.
1.2.4. Transcribing a new or revised CFETP. The 4E0X1 CFM will provide transcription instructions to
the AFTR program manager and field users. This process will be seamless to the field user as all existing
trainee records will be auto transcribed.
1.2.5. Decertification and Recertification. When an airman is found to be unqualified on a task
previously certified for his or her position, the supervisor deletes the previous AFTR documented
certification. Appropriate remarks are entered on the AF Form 623A, On-The-Job Training Record
Continuation Sheet, identifying the reason for decertification. Upon subsequent recertification,
document AFTR for any other training qualification.



                                                    34
