DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                       CFETP 1C7X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                          Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                          1 June 2013




                                   AFSC 1C7X1
                             AIRFIELD MANAGEMENT




                      CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                        AND TRAINING PLAN




    ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
    www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

    RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                                             1
SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication was changed to include: format updated to match current AFI 36-2201, Air
Force Training requirements; updates were made to skill progression information; training
decisions were updated based on January 2012 Specialty Training Requirements Team
(STRT) meeting; and skill level training requirements were updated. The arrangement of
STS items was updated to match schoolhouse course lists; STS proficiency codes were
updated in various skill levels; and support materials were updated. This publication has
been substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety.




                                            2
                        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                  AIRFIELD MANAGEMENT
                                        AFSC 1C7X1

                                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS

PART I

Preface....................................................................................................................................1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained ............................................................................................2

Section A - General Information ...........................................................................................8
     Purpose
     Uses
     Coordination and Approval

Section B - AFSC Progression and Information ...................................................................9
     Specialty Descriptions
     Skill/Career Progression
           Apprentice             (3) Skill Level
           Journeyman             (5) Skill Level
           Craftsman              (7) Skill Level
           Superintendent         (9) Skill Level
           Chief Enlisted Manager (0) Skill Level
     Training Decisions
     Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)
     Career Field Path

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements ....................................................................18
     Purpose
     Specialty Qualification
           Apprentice Level Training
           Journeyman Level Training
           Craftsman Level Training
           Airfield Manager Qualification Training

Section D - Resource Constraints ..........................................................................................23

Section E - Transitional Training Guide ...............................................................................23




                                                                      3
PART II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard ..............................................................................24

Section B - Course Objective List ........................................................................................26

Section C - Support Materials ..............................................................................................26

Section D - Training Course Index .......................................................................................26

Section E - MAJCOM Unique Training Requirements .......................................................27

ATTACHMENT

1C7X1 STS………………………………………………………………………………… 28




___________________________________________________________________________
OPR: 334 TRS/TRR
Certified By: CMSgt Michael D. Kossover, AFCFM (AF/A3O-BA)
Supersedes: CFETP1C7X1, 1 August 2008; CFETP1C7X1C1, 24 Aug 2011,
Pages: 44

                                                               4
                        AIRFIELD MANAGEMENT SPECIALTY

                                        AFSC 1C7X1

                CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

Part I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education
and training document that identifies life-cycle training and education requirements, training
support resources, and minimum core task requirements for the airfield management
specialty. The CFETP will provide airfield management personnel a clear career path to
succeed in all aspects of career field training. NOTE: Civilians occupying associated
positions will use Part II to support duty position qualification training.

2. This CFETP consists of two parts; supervisors must plan, manage, and control training
using both parts of this plan.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section
A explains how everyone will use the plan; Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path; Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, experience,
training, and other); Section D indicates resource constraints (funds, manpower, equipment,
facilities, etc); and Section E identifies transition training requirements.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard
(STS) and includes duties, tasks, and training references to support training, AETC
conducted training, wartime course and core task requirements; Section B contains the
Course Objective List and training standards supervisors will use to determine if Airmen
satisfied training requirements; Section C identifies available support materials; Section D
identifies a training course index supervisors can use to determine resources available to
support training, both mandatory and optional courses; and Section E identifies MAJCOM
unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required for
the associated qualification needs. At the unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II
to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in this CFETP will ensure individuals in Airfield Management
receive effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan
enables us to train today's work force to meet future wartime requirements.




                                               5
                          ABBREVIATION/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Distributed Learning (ADL) - An evolving, outcome-focused approach to
education, training, and performance aiding that blends standards-based distributed learning
models emphasizing reusable content objects, content and learning management systems,
performance support systems/devices, web applications services, and connectivity. ADL is
an evolution of distributed learning (distance learning) that emphasizes collaboration on
standards-based versions of reusable objects, networks, and learning management systems,
yet may include some legacy methods and media. ADL is structured learning that takes
place without requiring the physical presence of an instructor. Although the AF uses the
term advanced distributed learning, some federal agencies and DoD components may use the
term distance learning. These terms refer to the same basic concept.

Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS) - ADLS is the system that delivers ADL
content and tracks and reports student progress.

Advanced Training (AT) - Formal course that provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to
enhance expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced
level of the AFS.

Air Force Automated Education Management System (AFAEMS) - The official system
of record for Air Force Voluntary Education data. Each Education Center uses AFAEMS to
manage military members’ complete education record.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) - Representative appointed by the respective
HQ USAF Deputy Chief of Staff or Under Secretariat, to ensure assigned AF specialties are
trained and utilized to support AF mission requirements. AFCFM is the OPR; however,
works in concert with MAJCOM Functional Managers (FMs) as required.

Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD) - The official directory for all
military enlisted classification descriptions, codes, and identifiers. The specialty descriptions
and codes will be used to identify each Air Force job (valid requirements) and describes the
minimum mandatory qualifications of personnel to fill these jobs. The updated AFECD is
available at AF Personnel Center’s web site located at http://ask.afpc.randolph.af.mil/ under
the Military Classification menu.

Air Force Specialty (AFS) - A group of positions (with the same title and code) that require
common qualifications.

Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) - A five digit alphanumeric code with potential prefixes
and suffixes added to identify each career field within the Air Force.

Air Force Training Record (AFTR) - Provides the capability to manage the training
lifecycle for Total Force personnel. AFTR may be accessed within ADLS by clicking on
"Training Records" in the bottom right of the ADLS main screen.

Air Reserve Component (ARC) - This term is used as an overarching term when referring
to both the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Component together.
                                             6
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) - A CFETP is a comprehensive core
training document that identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements, training
support resources, and minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to
give personnel a clear path and instill a sense of industry in career field training.

Certification - A formal indication of an individual‘s ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official - A person whom the commander assigns to determine an individual‘s
ability to perform a task to required standards.

Computer Based Training (CBT) - The use of computers to aid in the delivery and
management of instruction.

Continuation Training - Additional advanced training exceeding the minimum upgrade
training requirements with emphasis on present or future duty assignments.

Core Task - Tasks the AFCFM identifies as minimum qualification requirements for
everyone within an AFSC, regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a
particular skill level, or in general across the AFSC. Guidance for using core tasks can be
found in the applicable CFETP narrative.

Course Objective List (COL) - A publication derived from initial and advanced skills CTS,
identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards provided to
achieve a 3- or 7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the CoL to assist in
conducting graduate evaluations.

Distance Learning (DL) - Structured learning that does not require the physical presence of
the instructor.

Distributed Learning - Structured learning mediated with technology that does not require
the physical presence of the instructor. Distributed learning models can be used in
combination with other forms of instruction or it can be used to create wholly virtual
classrooms.

Duty Position Tasks - Tasks assigned to an individual to be qualified for the position
currently held. These include as a minimum all core tasks that correspond to the duty
position as directed by the AFCFM or MFM, and tasks assigned by the supervisor.

Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) - Contains specific MAJCOM
procedures, fund cite instructions, reporting instructions, and listings for those formal courses
conducted or managed by the MAJCOMs or field operating agencies (FOAs). The ETCA
contains courses conducted or administered by the AF and reserve forces and serves as a
reference for the AF, DoD, other military services, government agencies and security
assistance programs. https://etca.randolph.af.mil

Enlisted Initial Skills Training - A formal school course that results in an AFSC 3-skill

                                               7
level award for enlisted or mandatory training for upgrade to qualify for officers.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST) - A combination of formal training (technical school)
and informal (on-the-job) training to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a
specialty.

Exportable Course - Instructional packages that personnel design for use in the field. The
course may include printed, computer-based, or other audiovisual materials.

Exportable Training - Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive
video, or other necessary means to supplement training.

Functional Area Manager (FAM) - The individual accountable for the management and
oversight of all personnel and equipment within a specific functional area to support the
operational planning and execution. Responsibilities include, but are not limited to:
developing and reviewing policy; developing, managing and maintaining UTCs; developing
criteria for and monitoring readiness reporting; force posturing; and overall analysis. At each
level of responsibility (HAF, MAJCOM, Air Component, FOA, DRU and Unit), the FAM
should be the most highly knowledgeable and experienced person within the functional area
and have the widest range of visibility over the functional area readiness and capability
issues.

Go - The stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge and experience to
perform the task without supervision.

Graduate Assessment Survey (GAS) - A survey sent from the technical training wing
(evaluations branch) to immediate supervisor of recent 3-skill level course graduates.
Supervisors use this survey to provide feedback on the effectiveness of the technical training
course in meeting established training requirements. How the supervisor answers and
comments on these questions could have a direct bearing on how well the school improves its
programs often resulting in training improvement initiatives.

Initial Skills Training - A formal school course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level award
for enlisted or mandatory training for upgrade to qualified officers.

Initial Evaluation - An evaluation to review an individual‘s training qualifications.
Supervisors must conduct an initial training evaluation to determine if the individual requires
additional training to meet duty position requirements.

Instructional System Development (ISD) - A deliberate and orderly, but flexible, process
for planning, developing, implementing and managing instructional systems. It ensures
personnel are taught in a cost efficient way the knowledge, skills and attitudes essential for
successful job performance.

Job Site Training (JST) - Formal courses developed for export to a field location (in place
of resident training) for trainees to complete without the on-site support of the formal school
instructor.

Knowledge Training - Training used to provide a base of knowledge for task performance.
                                           8
It may also be used in lieu of task performance when the training capability does not exist.
Learning gained through knowledge rather than hands-on experience.

Master Task List (MTL) - A comprehensive list (100%) of all tasks performed within a
work center and consisting of the current CFETP or AFJQS and locally developed AF Forms
797 (as a minimum). Should include tasks required for deployment and/or Unit Type Code
(UTC) requirements.

Master Training Plan (MTP) - Employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all work
center job requirements by using a Master Task List and provides milestones for task, CDC
completion, and prioritizes deployment/UTC, home station training tasks, and upgrade and
qualification tasks.

Major Command (MAJCOM) Functional Manager (MFM) - Senior leaders, designated
by the appropriate functional authority who provide day-to-day management responsibility
over specific functional communities at the MAJCOM, FOA, DRU or ARC level. While
they should maintain an institutional focus in regards to resource development and
distribution, MFMs are responsible for ensuring their specialties are equipped, developed and
sustained to meet the functional community’s mission as well as encourage force
development opportunities in order to meet future needs of the total AF mission. The MFM
works with AFCFM to maintain and implement the CFETP.

No Go - Trainee has not gained enough skill, knowledge and experience to perform task
without supervision.

Occupational Badge - When worn, the badge reflects the degree of experience and training
in the career field. The following guidance will be followed for enlisted personnel: Wear the
basic badge after completing technical school; wear the senior badge after award of the 7-
skill level; and wear the master badge as a Master Sergeant or above with 5 years in the
specialty from award of the 7-skill level.

Occupational Analysis (OA) - Collecting and analyzing factual data on the tasks and/or
knowledge performed by Air Force career fields. This data is used to provide personnel and
training decision-makers with factual and objective job information which enables them to
justify and/or change personnel utilization policies and programs, refine and maintain
occupational structures, and establish, validate and adjust testing and training programs.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR) - A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT) - Hands-on, “over-the-shoulder” conducted to certify personnel
in both upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (position certification training).

Position Certification Guide (PCG) - A guide developed and used to train Airfield
Management personnel on specific knowledge and task items required for position
certification; also used for upgrade training.

Position Qualification Training - Training designed to qualify an Airman in a specific
position that occurs after upgrade training.
                                             9
Proficiency Training - Additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced
training courses or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and
knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT) - Hands-on performance training designed to qualify an
Airman in a specific position. This training occurs both during and after upgrade training to
maintain up-to-date qualifications.

Qualification Training Package (QTP) - An instructional package designed for use at the
unit to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment.
It may be printed, computer-based or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints - Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower,
and equipment that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Special Experience Identifier (SEI) - A three-character designator that identifies specific
experience or expertise within a particular career field. Established when experience or
training is critical to a job. Additionally, SEIs can serve as a tool for commanders to ensure
personnel are placed/utilized correctly within an organization. The two most utilized by
Airfield Management are SEI 368 - Airfield Manager and SEI 090 - Contingency Response
Forces.

Specialty Training - The total training process used to qualify Airmen in their assigned
specialty.

Specialty Training Standard (STS) - An AF publication that describes an AFS in terms of
tasks and knowledge an Airman in that specialty may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. Also identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill level within an
enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show
which of the overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools and
correspondence courses.

Specialty Training Requirements Team (STRT) - Held 4 months prior to a Utilization and
Training Workshop (U&TW), the primary purpose is for career field functional leaders to
determine and present training requirements to the AETC Training Pipeline Manager (TPM)
and Training Manager (TM).

Standard - An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, the appropriate
authority, custom, or common consent sets up and defines to serve as a reference, model, or
rule in measuring quantities or qualities, developing practices or procedures, or evaluating
results. A fixed quantity or quality.

Student Training Report - This training report card contains detailed information on
student progress in both specialty training and military training. It is a valuable source of
information for gaining supervisors. The form will be maintained in the member’s training
record until upgrade to the 5-skill level is obtained.

Student Training Requirement (STR) - Other training users (excluding active AF users,
                                        10
NPS, PS and retrainees) that attend enlisted initial skills training which include, but are not
limited to: Guard, Reserve, Army, Navy, Marines, internationals and civilians.

Subject Matter Expert (SME) - An individual qualified in a particular specialty and is
consulted for his/her subject matter expertise or knowledge of the specialty.

Supplemental Training - Training toward a portion of an AFS without change by AFSC.
Formal training on new equipment, methods and technology that are not suited for on-the-job
training.

Task Certifier - See Certification Official.

Third Party Certification - An evaluation of completed training conducted by the task
certifier when directed by the AFCFM.

Total Force - All collective AF components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of
the United States Air Force.

Trainer - A trained and qualified person who teaches personnel to perform specific tasks
through OJT methods. Also, equipment that the trainer uses to teach personnel specified
tasks.

Trained Personnel Requirement (TPR) - The total Air Force production requirements for a
given initial skills course in order to maintain the proper skill level requirements in a career
field. It is expressed as non-prior service and retrainees. It does not include Air National
Guard, Reserves, or other services.

Training Planning Team (TPT) - Comprised of the same personnel as a Utilization and
Training Workshop (U&TW), however TPTs are more intimately involved in training
development and the range of issues is greater than is normal in the U&TW forum.

Training Capability - The ability of a unit or base to provide training. Authorities consider
the availability of equipment, qualified trainers, and study reference materials in determining
a unit’s training capability.

Training Completion Date - Date trainer or task certifier completes task evaluations and
determines trainee is qualified to perform the task.

Training Requirements Analysis - A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS, which
is included in the training decision process.

Training Start Date - Date training begins.

Upgrade Training (UGT) - Mandatory training that leads to attainment of higher level of
proficiency.

Upgrade Training Guide - A guide developed and used to train Airfield Management
personnel on specific knowledge and task items required for skill level up-grade-training.

                                               11
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) - A forum chaired by the AFCFM and
includes MFMs, SMEs, and AETC training personnel to determine career ladder training
requirements.

Wartime Tasks - Those tasks that must be taught when courses are accelerated in a wartime
environment. In response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3 skill level
course in a streamlined training environment. These tasks are only for those career fields that
still need them applied to their schoolhouse tasks.

Section A – General Information

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for the AFCFM, MFMs,
commanders, training managers, supervisors and trainers to plan, develop, manage and
conduct an effective career field training program. This plan outlines the training that
individuals in this AFS should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their
career. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced and proficiency
training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry
into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level.
Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses and task qualification requirements for
award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, 9-skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task
performance training designed to qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training
program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide
the performance skills and knowledge required to do the job. Proficiency training is
additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job
training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum
required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes, which include:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct and evaluate a career field’s
training program. It is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual's career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training and the
training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints, which impact full implementation of the desired
career field training process.

2. Uses. This plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in airfield
management.

2.1. AETC and HQ AFFSA training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-
resident, field and exportable training based on requirements established by the users and
documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop
acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

                                               12
2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, qualification and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, continuation
training, or exportable courses can satisfy identified requirements. MAJCOM-developed
training to support this AFSC must be identified for inclusion in the plan. The AFCFM must
review and approve any MAJCOM JQS.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this
plan. The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority and will initiate an
annual review of this plan to ensure currency and accuracy. MAJCOM representatives,
AETC and HQ AFFSA training personnel will identify and coordinate on career field
training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate
training.

Section B - Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Descriptions.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Manages airfield operations; coordinates with aircrews, air traffic
control and various other base agencies to ensure safe aircraft operations within the airfield
environment and through the national and international airspace systems. Related DoD
Occupational Subgroup: 155600.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.2.1. Apprentice/Journeyman (3/5) Skill Levels.

4.2.1.1. Attains Airfield Management Operations Coordinator (AMOC) and Airfield
Management Operations Supervisor/Shift Lead (AMOS/AMSL) position qualifications.

4.2.1.2. Performs various airfield checks and airfield inspections; responds to the airfield
during emergencies or any other situation that affects flight safety. Determines and
disseminates Runway Surface Condition (RSC) and Runway Condition Reading (RCR)
status to appropriate agencies.

4.2.1.3. Performs Airfield Management Operations (AMOPS) functions. Brief aircrews on
current airfield procedures, status and hazards. Reviews flight plans and other flight
associated documents for accuracy and completeness. Processes flight data with Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA), Department of Defense (DoD), Air Force, or International
Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) facilities via telecommunication systems. Coordinates
inbound and outbound flight notices with appropriate air traffic control agencies. Maintains
data on aircraft movement, and initiates overdue aircraft actions as required. Manages Prior
Permission Required (PPR) requests; coordinates aircraft parking plans with base agencies
regarding transient aircrew needs.

4.2.1.4. Operates radio communications devices. Uses crash alarm notification circuits in
response to in-flight emergencies, ground accidents or incidents, and contingency or exercise
requirements. Disseminates severe weather condition information to airfield agencies.
                                             13
4.2.1.5. Maintains flight planning displays and equipment, to include airfield diagrams.
Maintains and updates navigational aid status. Prepares, maintains, coordinates and issues
flight safety and local Notices to Airmen (NOTAMs). Oversees miscellaneous base flight
information publications (FLIPs) accounts.

4.2.1.6. Performs expeditionary airfield management function in support of USAF Agile
Combat Support Concept of Operations for worldwide deployment of DoD aircraft.

4.2.2. Craftsman (7) Skill Level.

4.2.2.1. Attains NCOIC, Airfield Management Operations and Training (NAMO/T) position
qualifications. Upon selection to TSgt, pursues award of Special Experience Identifier (SEI)
368, Airfield Manager.

4.2.2.2. Supervises, plans, schedules, organizes and coordinates airfield management
activities. Establishes work schedules and assigns appropriate duties as required. Manages
and supervises airfield management training program. Establishes job performance standards
and procedures for personnel they supervise.

4.2.2.3. Provides for the use and control of facilities, equipment, supplies and personnel
allotted to airfield management. Requisitions and accounts for equipment, supplies and other
assigned resources.

4.2.2.4. Inspects and evaluates airfield management activities. Evaluates reports,
administrative and statistical data files that pertain to airfield management. Reviews airfield
management procedures, and recommends changes to increase efficiency and service.

4.2.2.5. Reviews, interprets and enforces policies, instructions and directives pertaining to
airfield management functions. Prepares operating directives and memorandums for airfield
management activities. Establishes and manages base airfield driving program to include
training, certification and remedial action. Establishes procedures for controlling privately
owned vehicles on the airfield.

4.2.2.6. Performs daily airfield inspections to ensure a safe operational environment.
Evaluates airfield activities to ensure compliance with established policies and directives.
Identifies, reports, corrects or mitigates inspection discrepancies. Coordinates and supervises
airfield construction, repair activities, facilities maintenance and snow removal operations.
Coordinates with appropriate agencies, such as air traffic control, civil engineers, security
forces and command post, to ensure airfield activities are supported as appropriate.

4.2.2.7. Performs expeditionary airfield management function in support of USAF Agile
Combat Support Concept of Operations for worldwide deployment of DoD aircraft.

4.2.3. Superintendent (9) Skill Level.

4.2.3.1. Plans, organizes, directs, controls and evaluates airfield management activities.
Improves work methods and procedures to achieve the most economical use of resources.
Directs and conducts liaison with primary and mission support activities to reduce common
                                               14
problems, improve procedures, increase efficiency and provide better airfield management
activities. Ensures airfield management compliance with established policies and directives.
Evaluates effectiveness of the airfield management training program.

4.2.3.2. Evaluates airfield activities to ensure compliance with established policies and
directives. Performs airfield inspections to ensure a safe and operational environment.
Ensures proper USAF, DoD, ICAO, NATO, DoT, FAA and/or host nation criteria is applied
to the airfield. Identifies and requests maintenance/repair for the airfield deficiencies.
Establishes requirement for painting, stripping, rubber removal, maintenance and upgrade of
airfield facilities/systems. Directs and coordinates with appropriate agencies to accomplish
airfield maintenance. Determines priorities and directs snow and ice removal.

4.2.3.3. Schedules, supervises, and coordinates airfield construction and repair projects and
acts as liaison between flying community and civil engineers to analyze impact of work on
operational flying. Reviews all construction drawings and designs on or near the airfield.
Works with contractors, civil engineers, safety, security forces, air traffic control and other
agencies to provide a safe flying environment. Analyzes the effect of all construction on or
near the airfield and coordinates requirements. Ensures local airfield data is accurate and
consistent in flight information publications and other airfield databases. Reviews waivers to
airfield design and/or operational criteria and recommends approval/disapproval.

4.2.3.4. Advises appropriate officials (Airfield Operations Board, Installation Defense
Council, Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) Committee, Foreign Object Damage (FOD)
Committee, etc.) of procedures, policy and resources that will impact the effectiveness of
airfield support activities. Provides guidance at facility planning board meetings concerning
airfield lighting, security, aircraft parking plans, and future airfield construction. Develops
airfield parking plans and taxi routes. Advises senior leadership on all airfield matters that
may affect flying operations.

4.2.3.5. Identifies airfield areas requiring repairs, and monitors progress and emphasizes
need for programming funding for airfield construction projects to wing leadership. Reviews
project designs and provides corrections as necessary. Reviews contract specifications to
ensure airfield criteria compliance is met. Provides construction phasing requirements and
safety plans are met. Attends pre-construction meetings and briefs wing leaders on areas of
concern. Monitors construction and inspects construction areas upon project completion to
ensure areas are safe for operational use.

4.2.3.6. Performs expeditionary airfield management function in support of USAF Agile
Combat Support Concept of Operations for worldwide deployment of DoD aircraft.

4.2.4. Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) 1C700.

4.2.4.1. Major Command (MAJCOM) Functional Managers (MFM). Enlisted MFMs
manage enlisted career fields for a MAJCOM and serve as the MAJCOM liaisons for their
respective Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Monitor the health and manning of
their career field within their command and elevate concerns to the AFCFM. Coordinate
with AFPC, through MAJCOM/A1, to distribute personnel throughout the MAJCOM to
ensure proper command prioritization of allocated/assigned resources. Manage command
training for their career field and coordinate command training and personnel issues across
                                                15
their MAJCOM staff and with AFCFMs. Disseminate Air Force and career field policies and
program requirements affecting their career field throughout the MAJCOM. Provide
functional and Subject Matter Expertise (SME) to Component-Numbered Air Forces (C-
NAF) and Combatant Commands (COCOM). Provide functional and SME to AETC
Training Managers to develop new or modify/improve existing training programs.

4.2.4.2. Functional Area Managers (FAM). Enlisted FAMs are normally co-located with
the MFM. Responsible for the management and oversight of all personnel and equipment
within a specific functional area to support wartime and peacetime contingency planning and
execution. Develop and review policy; develop, manage, and maintain Time Phased Force
and Deployment Data (TPFDD) and Unit Type Codes (UTC); develop criteria for and
monitor readiness reporting; force posturing analysis, and execution activities. Ensures
command UTCs are postured per the current Airfield Operations (AO) Functional Area
Prioritization and Sequencing Guidance published by the HAF FAM. FAMs must be trained
and appointed per AFI 10-401.

4.2.4.3. Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Enlisted AFCFMs typically serve at
Headquarters Air Force and are responsible for organizing and managing the enlisted career
field. Responsibilities include establishing career field entry requirements, managing trained
personnel requirements and manning, as well as developing and managing career-long
training plans' requirements and programs. They also construct viable career paths, evaluate
training effectiveness, monitor health and manning of the career field, and provide input on
personnel policies and programs. Additionally, they develop force management policies and
programs, develop contingency planning policy, validate deployment requirements, and
verify workforce availability. They are also functional experts. They ensure their career
fields are responsive to both current and future needs of the Air Force. They communicate
directly with other HQ Air Force offices on issues impacting their career field and with
respective MAJCOM enlisted career field representatives and Air Education and Training
Command Training Managers to disseminate Air Force and career field policies and program
requirements. AFCFMs operate at the strategic level of leadership.

5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice
to the superintendent skill level plays an important role in the Air Force's ability to
accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan,
manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided (Table 5.1) in
this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable training at appropriate
points in their career.

                                   Table 5.1 - Skill/Career Progression
                                                                       Rank       Rank - TIS Average
Basic Military Training School                                        AB/Amn        Amn - 6 months
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)                         AB/Amn/A1C     A1C - 16 months
AM Operations Coordinator Qualification                                A1C           A1C - 2 years
• Complete AMOC PCG
Upgrade to Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                                 A1C/SrA        SrA - 3 years
• Minimum 12 months UGT (9 months for retrainees with training
    status code F)
• Complete all core tasks listed in STS
AM Operations Supervisor Qualification                                    SrA        SrA - 3 years
• Complete AMSL/AMOS PCG

                                                 16
• Approved by the AFM
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                              SrA/SSgt       SSgt - 4 years
• Must be SrA with 48 months TIS or be a SSgt select
• Resident graduation is a prerequisite to sew on SSgt (AD Only)
Upgrade to Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                                           SSgt        SSgt - 5 years
• Minimum rank of SSgt
• Minimum 12 months UGT (6 months for retrainees with training
    status code G)
• Complete 7-Skill Level ADL/Craftsman course.
• Complete all core tasks listed in STS
NCOIC, AM Operations and Training Qualification                             SSgt/TSgt      TSgt - 9 years
• Complete NAMO/T PCGs.
• Approved by the AFM
Airfield Manager (AFM) Qualification - Award SEI 368                           TSgt       TSgt - 10 years
• Minimum Grade TSgt
• 36 months of experience in AM; 12 months working in an AM
    facility as a 7-Skill Level
• Completion of AFM PCG
• Graduate of Advanced Airfield Manager Course
• Approved by the AFM
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)                                         TSgt       TSgt - 11 years
• Must be TSgt or TSgt select
• Resident graduation is a prerequisite to sew on MSgt (AD Only)
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                                                MSgt       MSgt - 15 years
• Must be MSgt, SMSgt select, or SMSgt
• Resident graduation is required to sew-on SMSgt
Upgrade to Superintendent (9-Skill Level)                                     SMSgt       SMSgt - 18 years
• Must be a SMSgt
• Awarded SEI 368
Trainer
• Must be recommended by their supervisor
• Qualified and certified to perform the task to be trained
• Completed the Air Force Training Course (AFTC)
Certifier
• Must be at least a SSgt with a 5-skill level/civilian equivalent
• Capable of evaluating the task being certified
• Completed the AFTC
• Must be someone other than the trainer if the item requires third party certification




                                                      17
6. Training Decisions. This CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the 1C7X1 career field. The
spectrum includes the strategy of when, where and how to meet these training requirements.
The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate
a fragmented approach to training. The training decisions were made during the STRT held
9-13 January 2012 and utilizing the ISD process as implemented by 334 TRS during training
planning and course development.

6.1. Initial Skills Training. The initials skills course, E3ABR1C731, has been revised by
334 TRS at Keesler AFB, MS per updates made to Part II of this CFETP.

6.2. 5-Skill Level Upgrade Training. The training section at HQ AFFSA developed 5-skill
level Upgrade Training Guide (UTG) which was implemented in March 2011 to replace
outdated CDCs. Feedback from the field was there is too much duplication with PCGs,
which were also targeted for improvement. Therefore, HQ AFFSA combined the UTG and
AMOC PCG to manage both AMOC qualification and 5- skill level UGT and the UTG will
be discontinued. Trainees will complete the new AMOC PCG to be awarded the 5-skill
level. The new PCGs will match the updated STS and with 334 TRS assistance, be written to
match updated proficiency codes.

6.3. 7-Skill Level Upgrade Training. Various 7-skill level STS proficiency codes were
updated to ensure a building block approach as trainees transition from 5-level and then to 9-
level training. The 334 TRS is revising the ADL course per updates made to Part II of this
CFETP. 344 TRS is also working to move end of course testing to the "milSuite" website to
negate the need to test at the base testing center. Once moved, the tests will be proctored by
the individual's supervisor.

6.4. Advanced Airfield Managers Course. Minor updates were made to the E3AZR1C791,
Course Training Standard (CTS). The adjustments will be included in the similarly improved
AFM PCG. Additional updates will be made to the AFM PCG to better prepare trainees for
the AAFM course.

6.5. Retraining Personnel. Retrainees will attend the 3-skill level resident training course
before entering 5-skill level UGT. Upon award of 5-skill level, retrainees holding the rank of
SSgt or above must perform airfield management duties for a minimum of 9 months prior to
enrolling in the 7-skill level ADL course. The AFCFM may waive the skill upgrade
requirements, with justification, on a case-by-case basis, to the previously held skill level.
Process such waiver requests in accordance with the guidance listed in paragraph 6.5.1.

6.5.1. AFCFMs are the authority for waiving any mandatory training requirement(s).
Process the waiver request to the AFCFM in the following manner:

6.5.1.1. Supervisors decide whether pursuing a waiver is appropriate by considering the
complexity of the new AFSC and the trainee's background. If a waiver is deemed
appropriate, supervisors develop and forward a case file, which includes evidence to warrant
a waiver, through the unit commander to the servicing Military Personnel Flight (MPF)
personnel employment element.


                                              18
6.5.1.2. The MPF will provide their recommendations and forward the case file to the
MAJCOM/A1, who will coordinate the package with the MAJCOM training manager and
1C7X1 MFM for coordination. Cases will then be sent to the AFCFM for a decision. In the
event there is no AFSC functional manager at the MAJCOM to evaluate the case, the
MAJCOM training manager will send the case to AFPC for review by the appropriate AFPC
functional advisor. After AFPC review, the case will be sent to the AFCFM.

6.6. Proficiency Training. Annual CBTs, except Airfield Driving, will be incorporated into
the updated PCGs and be discontinued as annual items. Future use of CBTs will be reserved
for immediate training needs and only be maintained until incorporated into applicable
PCGs. Future annual proficiency training will be centralized and published monthly by
AFFSA. Units will still have the ability to add local monthly proficiency training items on
an as required basis and at the direction of the AFM, but local monthly training in addition to
the AFFSA published requirement will not be mandatory.

6.7. Continuation Training. Continuation training opportunities are described in Table 6.7.
The majority of these courses are unit funded. Each unit (and MAJCOM) should request
funding support for continuation training courses in each annual fiscal year budget.
Additional continuation training courses may be found on the AAAE or FAA Academy
websites.

                                 Table 6.7 - Continuation Training Opportunities
 Course Description and Source                                                                       Rank
 Basic Airport Safety & Operations Specialist School. Designed to enhance the                      SrA/SSgt
 professionalism and basic safety responsibilities of airport operations personnel and to         Possessing
 increase awareness of the FAA’s Part 139 Airport Certification Program. This course is          5-Skill Level
 specifically tailored to civil airport personnel responsible for the day-to-day operations of
 public-use airfields throughout the United States. Both Part 139 and non-regulatory
 airside safety and operations issues will be thoroughly reviewed by an expert faculty. This
 faculty will include FAA headquarters and regional personnel, officials from the National
 Transportation Safety Board, airport executives, airline pilots, military/DoD
 representatives from joint-use facilities and others knowledgeable about airport operations
 and safety matters. Course provided by American Association of Airport Executives
 (AAAE). Course length: 4 days.
 Advanced Airport Safety & Operations Specialist School (ASOS). The advanced                       SrA/SSgt
 ASOS school is designed for individuals who have either attended an earlier ASOS school          Possessing
 or have at least two years of supervisory experience in civil airport operations. The           5-Skill Level
 advanced school uses fewer prepared presentations and more problem-solving workshops,
 role-playing scenarios and breakout groups so that all attendees can actively participate in
 the proceedings. The case studies and general discussions will cover a range of topics,
 including: environmental issues; winter operations (deicing/snow removal); emergency
 planning; construction safety; vehicle operations; security issues; hazmat/fuel spills;
 wildlife management/bird control. Course provided by AAAE. Course length: 4 days.
 AAAE Certified Member (CM). This is an advanced course that covers 15 major                      SSgt/MSgt
 subject areas: History, The Regulation of Air Transportation, Airports, and The Federal         7-Skill level
 Aviation Administration, The Management Functions, Management Theories, Roles,
 Motivation, and Communication, Airport Capacity and Delay, Air Traffic Control,
 Airspace, and Navigational Aids, Environmental Regulations, Airport Noise and Land Use
 Compatibility, Financial Management and Accounting, Airport Fees, Rates & Charges,
 Capital Development and Funding for Airports, Airport System Planning and Airport
 Master Planning, Airport Layout Plans, Terminal Planning, Design, and Operation,
 Airport Operations And Federal Aviation Regulation Part 139—Certification, and Airport
 Security and Response to Emergencies. Course provided by AAAE. Course length: 5
 days or correspondence.

                                                       19
 AAAE Airport Certified Employee (ACE). This is an advanced course that covers four                 SSgt/MSgt
 major subject areas: Operations, Lighting Maintenance, Security and Communications.               7-Skill level
 Course is provided by AAAE. Course length: 5 days or correspondence.
 FAA Airport Certification for Non-FAA Employees (FAA06047). This course                           TSgt/MSgt
 provides a working knowledge of airport certification procedures (including marking,             7-Skill Level
 lighting, guidance signs, ARFF, fuel handling safety, etc.), and airport inspection              Awarded SEI
 procedures to be able to complete an airport inspection in accordance with FAA Part 139              368
 or ICAO Annex 14 regulations. It reviews the requirements of Part 139 and ICAO Annex
 14 and ICAO Doc 9774 (ICAO certification requirements). Some of the classroom
 subjects covered are the issuance of airport certificates, the review of airport certification
 manuals and related plans, airport inspection procedures to assure compliance with Part
 139 and/or ICAO Annex 14, the identification of violations of Part 139 and/or Annex 14
 regulations, and the preparation of administrative enforcement actions. In addition to
 airport inspection techniques, Part 139 and ICAO Annex 14 standards will are covered.
 Course provided by FAA (AMA-800B). Course Length: 8 days.
 FAA Airport Certification Course (FAA06041). This course is for personnel who will                TSgt/MSgt
 be responsible for the certification of airports and enforcement of FAR 139. Classroom           7-Skill Level
 subjects to be covered are airport inspection procedures to assure compliance with FAR           Awarded SEI
 139 Subpart D, identification of violations to FAR 139, preparation of administrative                368
 enforcement actions, issuance of certificates, and review of airport certification manuals
 and related plans. The class includes labs, workshops, and field trips to provide hands-on
 training. Course provided by FAA. Course length: 3 weeks.
 Aircraft Mishap Investigation Course (WCIP05A). This course provides aircraft                    MSgt or above
 mishap investigation techniques and procedures. Course provided by HQ Air Force                  7-Skill Level
 Safety Center, Kirtland AFB, NM. Course length: 3 weeks.
 Flight Safety Non Commissioned Officer (L3AZR1S071). This course provides                        TSgt or above
 training on principles of mishap prevention; flight safety program responsibilities;             7-Skill Level
 requirements of the Hazardous Air Traffic Report (HATR) program, Bird Aircraft Strike
 Program and Hazard Reporting Program; objectives of inspections, assessments, mishap
 investigation, and reporting; mishap categories and classes; investigation responsibilities
 and preparing mishap reports. Course provided by HQ Air Force Safety Center, Kirtland
 AFB, NM. Course length: 3 weeks.
 Risk Management (RM)(WCIP05E). Course provides "how-to" instruction in applying                    SSgt/MSgt
 primary and select RM tools and techniques. In addition, the integration of RM into               7-Skill level
 organizational activities is covered. The course is intended for personnel serving as
 organizational RM focal points, RM trainers, lead planners and others requiring a more in-
 depth understanding of RM principles, tools and application. Course provided by HQ Air
 Force Safety Center, Kirtland AFB, NM. Course length: 3 days.
 Contingency Wartime Planners Course (CWPC). This course provides MFM and                          MSgt/CMSgt
 FAMs in-depth knowledge in contingency planning, crisis action planning, and operations          7/9-Skill levels
 plans execution. Course provided by Air University at Maxwell AFB, AL. Course
 length: 10 class days (two weeks).
 AM Contingency Operations Workshop (COW). The COW prepares AM personnel to                         SrA/MSgt
 perform duties in a deployment environment during contingency operations. Subjects               5/7-Skill levels
 include; familiarization and use of the AM equipment UTC (7FVLU); use of night vision
 devices (NVD); Forward Area and Refueling Point operations (FARP), post attack
 actions, etc. Training concludes with a field exercise and exit exam. Workshop is
 provided by the Air National Guard at Camp Shelby, MS. Course length: 5 days.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). CCAF enrollment occurs after
completion of basic military training and provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in
Applied Sciences (A.A.S.) Degree. In addition, CCAF offers the following:

7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification
training, consisting of the instructor methods course and supervised teaching practicum.
CCAF instructors who possess an associate degree or higher may be nominated by their

                                                        20
commander/commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.

7.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a
competency based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency
levels: Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman/Supervisor, or Master Craftsman/Manager. All
are transcribed on the CCAF transcript.

7.3. Degree Requirements. All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program.
Prior to completing an associate degree, the following requirements must be met:

7.3.1. Award of an airfield management 5-skill level.

7.3.2. Meet the current year CCAF General Catalog program requirements. See current
program requirements at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/catalog/2011cat/ter_1avy.htm. Obtain
additional information on CCAF degrees and requirements through the base education office,
or the CCAF representative at Maxwell AFB, AL, DSN 493-2043.

7.4. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals
desiring to become an AETC Instructor must possess as a minimum as associate degree or
should be actively pursuing an associate degree. Special Duty Assignment (SDA) requires
an AETC Instructor candidate to have a CCAF degree or be within one year of completion
(42 semester hours). A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the
Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.

8. Airfield Management Career Field Paths.

8.1. Table 8.1 depicts typical duty positions in the AM career field by grade level. This table
is intended as a guide only to provide Airmen a “snapshot” of possible duty positions in
planning their careers and duty assignments; this chart is not all-inclusive.

                          Table 8.1. Airfield Management Career Path
   Rank       Skill       Time in                                  Duty Positions
              Level      AM Years
 AB/Amn         3           <1        Initial skills trainee; Airfield Management Operations
                                      Coordinator (AMOC) Trainee

   A1C         3/5          1-3         AMOC, Airfield Management Operations Shift Lead (AMSL)

   SrA          5           3-4         AMOC; Airfield Management Operations Supervisor (AMOS);
                                        Resident Course Instructor (RCI)

   SSgt        5/7          4-9         AMOS; RCI; NCOIC, Airfield Management Training (NAMT);
                                        NCOIC, Airfield Management Operations (NAMO);
                                        Contingency Response Forces (CRF)

   TSgt         7           9-15        AMOS; NAMT; NAMO; Contracting Officer's Representative
                                        (COR); DoD NOTAM Div; RCI; CRF; Deputy AFM (DAFM)

   MSgt         7          15-18        COR; DAFM; AFM; MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM);
                                        Functional Area Manager (FAM); DoD NOTAM Division; RCI,
                                        Numbered AF (NAF) Functional; CRF

                                                21
  SMSgt         9           18-22      AFM; MFM; FAM; NAF Functional

  CMSgt      CEM (0)        22-30      AFM; MFM; FAM; AFCFM


Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill levels in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and knowledge
requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill
level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award
and retention of each skill level. Each skill level must be completed sequentially. The
specific task and knowledge training requirements are identified in Part II of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualification.

10.1. Apprentice Level Training.

10.1.1. Specialty Qualification. Entry into training occurs upon completion of basic
military training or when retraining from another AFSC is approved.

10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Mandatory knowledge of: International Civil Aviation Organization
(ICAO); North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO); United States Federal and military
airfield regulations; aeronautical charts, maps, and publications; flight data and NOTAM
systems; familiarity of navigational aids; basic aircraft design characteristics; and principles
of organization, purpose, operation, and management of airfield operational areas.

10.1.1.2. Education. For entry, completion of high school with a course in typing is
desirable.

10.1.1.3. Training. Completion of the Airfield Management Apprentice Course,
E3ABR1C731, is mandatory.

10.1.1.4. Experience. N/A

10.1.1.5. Other. The following items are mandatory for entry, award, and retention of this
AFSC:

10.1.1.5.1. Aptitude and physical requirements are listed in the AFECD, Attachment 4.

10.1.1.5.2. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
Standards.

10.1.1.5.3. Ability to speak distinctly in person and over air-to-ground radios.

10.1.1.5.4. Must attain qualification to operate a government vehicle according to AFI 24-
301, Vehicle Operations.



                                               22
10.1.1.5.5. Must be a US National (not open to non-US Citizens) that can routinely access
Secret material or similar environment. National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and
Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management are
required. NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level without a completed NACLC is authorized
provided an interim Secret security clearance has been granted according to AFI 31-501.

10.1.1.5.6. Must maintain an Air Force Network License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2.,
Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals

10.1.1.6. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of course E3ABR1C731 satisfies
the knowledge and performance requirements specified in the specialty qualification section
for award of the 3-skill level.

10.1.1.7. Implementation. Successful completion of the AM Apprentice Course results in
award of the 3-skill level.

10.2. Journeyman Level Training.

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification. Enter 5-skill level UGT upon arrival at first duty station
and after completion of an initial evaluation.

10.2.1.1. Knowledge. Mandatory knowledge of: United States Federal, DoD, ICAO and
NATO airfield regulations; aeronautical charts, maps, and publications; flight data and
NOTAM systems; familiarity of navigational aids; basic aircraft design characteristics; and
principles of organization, purpose, operation, and management of airfield operational issues.

10.2.1.2. Education. N/A

10.2.1.3. Training. Complete the AMOC PCG; all core tasks listed in the STS; and a
minimum of 12 months in UGT (9 months for retrainees).

10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1C731. Also, experience in
Airfield Management Operations functions such as: airfield checks and inspections, NOTAM
processing, emergency response actions, and maintaining flight information data and
supportive displays.

10.2.1.5. Other. The following items are mandatory for entry, award, and retention of this
AFSC:

10.2.1.5.1. Aptitude and physical requirements are listed in the AFECD, Attachment 4.

10.2.1.5.2. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
Standards.

10.2.1.5.3. Ability to speak distinctly in person and over air-to-ground radios.

10.2.1.5.4. Must attain qualification to operate a government vehicle according to AFI 24-
301.

                                              23
10.2.1.5.5. Must be a US National (not open to non-US Citizens) that can routinely access
Secret material or similar environment. National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and
Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501 are required. NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level
without a completed NACLC is authorized provided an interim Secret security clearance has
been granted according to AFI 31-501.

10.2.1.5.6. Must maintain an Air Force Network License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2.

10.2.1.6. Training Sources and Resources. USAF AM PCGs are published and provided
by HQ AFFSA. Various CBTs used to support OJT are provided by AFFSA or are located
on ADLS website.

10.2.1.7. Implementation. Completion of the AMOC PCG, all core and applicable tasks
listed in the CFETP, and 12 months in UGT (9 months for retrainees with training status
code F) is required for award of the 5-skill level.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training.

10.3.1. Specialty Qualification. Enter 7-level UGT after notification of promotion to Staff
Sergeant (SSgt) but no earlier than the first day of the promotion cycle.

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. Mandatory knowledge of: US Federal, DoD, ICAO and NATO
airfield regulations; aeronautical charts, maps, and publications; flight data and NOTAM
systems; familiarity of navigational aids; basic aircraft design characteristics; and principles
of organization, purpose, operation, and management of airfield operational issues.

10.3.1.2. Education. For active duty, resident graduation of the Airman Leadership School
(ALS) is a prerequisite to assume the grade of SSgt and NCO Academy (NCOA) to assume
the grade of MSgt. For ARC, completing the distance learning ALS and NCOA satisfies this
requirement.

10.3.1.3. Training. Complete the Craftsman ADL Course; all applicable tasks listed in the
STS; and a minimum of 12 months in UGT (6 months for retrainees with training status code
G).

10.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1C751. Also, experience
performing and Airfield Management functions; such as, airfield checks and inspections,
overseeing airfield construction or repairs, processing airfield waivers, or conducting airfield
surveys.

10.3.1.5. Other. The following items are mandatory for entry, award, and retention of this
AFSC:

10.3.1.5.1. Aptitude and physical requirements are listed in the AFECD, Attachment 4.

10.3.1.5.2. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
Standards.

10.3.1.5.3. Ability to speak distinctly in person and over air-to-ground radios.
                                               24
10.3.1.5.4. Must attain qualification to operate a government vehicle according to AFI 24-
301.

10.3.1.5.5. Must be a US National (not open to non-US Citizens) that can routinely access
Secret material or similar environment. National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and
Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501 are required. NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level
without a completed NACLC is authorized provided an interim Secret security clearance has
been granted according to AFI 31-501.

10.3.1.5.6. Must maintain an Air Force Network License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2.

10.3.1.6. Training Sources and Resources. The Craftsman ADL Course is completed
through the ADLS website.

10.3.1.7. Implementation. Completion of the Craftsman ADL Course, all applicable tasks
listed in the STS, and a minimum of 12 months in UGT (6 months for retrainees with training
status code G) is required for award of the 7-skill level.

10.4. Airfield Manager Qualification Training (SEI 368)

10.4.1. Specialty Qualification. Enter SEI 368 qualification training upon promotion to
TSgt and complete within 1 year.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Mandatory knowledge of facility operations and management,
airfield support plans, airfield utilization, mishaps, Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems
(ATCALS), airspace and airfield criteria, airfield infrastructure, pavement evaluations, and
contingency operations.

10.4.1.2. Education. N/A

10.4.1.3. Training. Complete the AFM PCG and the Advanced Airfield Managers Course.

10.4.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1C771 and minimum grade
of TSgt and 36 months of AM experience; to include 12 months working in an AM facility as
a 7-skill level. Also, experience managing airfield management activities, overseeing airfield
construction or repairs, processing airfield waivers, and reviewing airfield management
policies and directives.

10.4.1.5. Other. The following items are mandatory for entry, award, and retention of this
AFSC:

10.4.1.5.1. Aptitude and physical requirements are listed in the AFECD, Attachment 4.

10.4.1.5.2. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
Standards.

10.4.1.5.3. Ability to speak distinctly in person and over air-to-ground radios.

                                              25
10.4.1.5.4. Must attain qualification to operate a government vehicle according to AFI 24-
301.

10.4.1.5.5. Must be a US National (not open to non-US Citizens) that can routinely access
Secret material or similar environment. National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and
Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501 are required. NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level
without a completed NACLC is authorized provided an interim Secret security clearance has
been granted according to AFI 31-501.

10.4.1.5.6. Must maintain an Air Force Network License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2.

10.4.1.6. Training Sources and Resources. The PCG is published and provided by
AFFSA. Course E3AZR1C791 is completed by in-residence attendance at Keesler AFB,
MS.

10.4.1.7. Implementation. To be awarded SEI 368, individuals must complete all
qualification training requirements, meet minimum experience requirements, and be
recommended by the Airfield Manager.

10.5. Superintendent Level Training.

10.5.1. Specialty Qualification.

10.5.1.1. Knowledge. Mandatory knowledge of: US Federal, DoD, ICAO and NATO
airfield regulations; aeronautical charts, maps, and publications; flight data and NOTAM
systems; familiarity of navigational aids; basic aircraft design characteristics; and principles
of organization, purpose, operation, and management of airfield operational issues.

10.5.1.2. Education. For active duty, resident graduation of the Senior NCO Academy
(SNCOA) is not required to assume the grade of SMSgt, but is required to assume the rank of
Chief Master Sergeant (CMSgt). This course is normally completed before sewing-on
SMSgt. ARC personnel can satisfy this requirement through distance learning.

10.5.1.3. Training. If not already awarded SEI368, complete the AFM PCG and the
Advanced Airfield Managers Course.

10.5.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1C771. Also, experience
managing functions such as airfield management activities, preparing or reviewing policies
and directives for airfield management or ensuring coordination with agencies to improve
airfield management functions.

10.5.1.5. Other. The following items are mandatory for entry, award, and retention of this
AFSC:

10.5.1.5.1. Aptitude and physical requirements are listed in the AFECD, Attachment 4.

10.5.1.5.2. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
Standards.

                                               26
10.5.1.5.3. Ability to speak distinctly in person and over air-to-ground radios.

10.5.1.5.4. Must attain qualification to operate a government vehicle according to AFI 24-
301.

10.5.1.5.5. Must be a US National (not open to non-US Citizens) that can routinely access
Secret material or similar environment. National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and
Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501 are required. NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level
without a completed NACLC is authorized provided an interim Secret security clearance has
been granted according to AFI 31-501.

10.5.1.5.6. Must maintain an Air Force Network License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2.

10.5.1.6. Training Sources and Resources. The PCG is published and provided by
AFFSA. Course E3AZR1C791 is completed by in-residence attendance at Keesler AFB,
MS.

10.5.1.7. Implementation. To be awarded the 9-skill level, individuals must have SEI 368
awarded and sew-on SMSgt.

Section D. Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal and
desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and
manpower. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

11.1. Apprentice Level Training. None.

11.2. Journeyman Level Training. None.

11.3. Craftsman Level Training. None.

11.4. Airfield Manager Qualification Training. None.

Section E. Transitional Training Guide - None.




                                              27
Part II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard

1. Implementation. The STS (Attachment 1) will be used for technical training provided by
AETC for classes entering on and after 05 Jan 2013 for 3-skill level training and with the
class entering on and after 02 Apr 2013 for 7-skill level training.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, the STS:

2.1. Column 1 lists the most common tasks, knowledge and Technical References (TR)
necessary for Airman to perform their duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level. All task and
knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime. Wartime tasks
are tasks identified by the MAJCOM functional managers that must continue to be taught
when HQ AETC implements the wartime course chart.

2.2. Column 2 identifies core tasks for 5 and 7 skill levels. The core tasks identify the
minimum essential tasks required to perform the duty expected of each person in each skill
level of the specialty.

2.3. Column 3 provides certification for OJT and is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Items identified by © require third party certification. The
trainer will determine when the trainee is ready to be certified on a task. If no third party
certification is required, training is certified complete by the trainer, by initialing the trainer
block. If the task requires third party certification, the training is certified complete after the
trainer initials the training block and the task certifier conducts a task evaluation and initials
the certifier block. Use automated training management systems to document, if available.
Task certification must show a certification or completion date.

2.4. Column 4 shows formal training requirements and the proficiency to be demonstrated
on the job by the graduate as a result of formal training on the task and knowledge.

2.5. The qualitative requirements at the beginning of Attachment 1 contain the proficiency
code key used to indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training.

2.6. The STS is used to document task completion when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-
Job Training Record, and according to AFI 36-2201. Documentation shall be IAW AFI 36-
2201 or any subsequent messages.

2.6.1. At the unit level, tasks are trained and qualified to the "Go" level. "Go" means the
individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local demands for accuracy,
timeliness, and correct use of procedures ("Go" level equates to 3c in the STS proficiency
code key). Graduates of the 3-level resident course are trained to the level indicated by the
codes in column 4, as they relate to the proficiency code key at the front of the STS, and not
to the “Go” level.

2.6.2. Duty position requirements are identified by circling the subparagraph number next to
the task statement on the master training record. Any additional duty position tasks required
by a unit must be added in the 797 tab of AFTR. As a minimum, complete the following
                                              28
columns in Part 2 of the CFETP; Training Completed, Trainee Initials, Trainer Initials and
Certifier Initials (if third party certification is required).

2.6.3. The AFCFM requires third-party certification and evaluation on selected STS and AF
Form 797 items; which means the certifier must be someone other than the trainer. At ARC
locations that do not have enough positions to comply, the applicable ARC MFM is
delegated the authority to waive this requirement. ARC MFM waivers will be location
specific and not "blanket".

2.7. Transcribing documentation to a new CFETP is an administrative function, not a re-
evaluation of training. Therefore, supervisor and trainer are considered synonymous for the
purpose of documentation. Transcribe within 120 days (240 days for ARC) of CFETP
revision date or from date revision is posted to automated training records systems. Upon
publication of a new CFETP, use the following procedures to transcribe:

2.7.1. Use the new CFETP to identify past and current training requirements and to
transcribe qualifications from the previous CFETP.

2.7.2. For tasks previously qualified/certified and required in the current duty position, enter
the current date in the completion column. Trainee initials in the trainee column and the
supervisor/trainer initials in the trainer column.

2.7.3. Annotate the AF Form 623a, (for example, “I certify the information contained in the
CFETP dated XX was transcribed to the CFETP dated XX, and the trainee was given the
superseded CFETP.” Signed and dated by supervisor and trainee).

2.7.4. For personnel in retraining status, maintain the CFETP from previous AFSC until
commensurate skill level is achieved, then give the obsolete field CFETP to the individual.

2.7.5. Automated training records update automatically when a new CFETP is published.
Supervisors and trainers must review to ensure applicable tasks transferred and identify any
new tasks that require training.

2.8. When a supervisor determines an Airman is unqualified on a task previously certified
for their duty position, the supervisor erases the previous certification, or deletes certification
when using automated system. Appropriate remarks pertaining to the reason for
decertification are entered on the AF Form 623a or automated version. Begin recertification
following initial certification procedures.

2.9. The STS is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests are developed at the AETC Airman
Advancement Division, by SNCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields.
The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team
members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon
study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in Chapter 1 of
AFI 36-2605, AF Military Personnel Testing System. WAPS is not applicable to the ANG.

3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality
of AETC training. A Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) has been installed for the
                                          29
supervisor convenience. For a quick response to concerns, call CSIL at DSN 597-4566, or
fax us at DSN 597-3790, or e-mail us at 81trg-tget@keesler.af.mil. Reference this STS and
identify the specific area of concern (paragraph, training standard element, etc.).


Section B – Course Objective List

4. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows: P indicates required task
performance, which is measured with a performance test. O indicates trainee must correctly
articulate the desired level of knowledge on the subject/task.

5. Standard. The standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for performance
measurement are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress
checklist. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check and students
may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.

6. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the 2b proficiency level, which
means the student can do most parts of the task but does need assistance on the hardest parts
of the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step procedures for
doing the task.

7. Course Objectives. The course objectives are listed in the sequence taught by block of
instruction. A detailed listing of course objectives may be obtained by written request to 334
TRS/TRR, Keesler AFB MS, 39534-2335.

Section C – Support Materials

8. The following list of support materials is not all-inclusive; however, it covers those most
frequently used.

              Type                               Title                      Developer
      PCG                      AMOC                                       AFFSA
      PCG                      AMOS/AMSL                                  AFFSA
      PCG                      NAMO/T                                     AFFSA
      PCG                      AFM                                        AFFSA

Section D – Training Course Index

9. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty
and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training
programs. Current listings of formal courses available are located at the Education and
Training Course Announcements (ETCA) web page, https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.

9.1. Air Force In-Residence Courses

        Course Number                          Title                         Location
      E3ABR1C731 00RB          Airfield Management Apprentice             Keesler AFB
      E3AZR1C791 00RB          Advanced Airfield Manager Course           Keesler AFB

                                               30
9.2. AF Institute for Advanced Distributive Learning

       Course Number                       Title                      Location
     E6ACW1C771 00RB        Airfield Management Craftsman          Keesler AFB

9.3. Exportable Courses

      Course Number                         Title                     Location
     CBT                    Airfield Criteria                      AFFSA
     CBT                    Airfield Inspection and Maintenance    AFFSA
     CBT                    Wildlife Hazard Management             AFFSA
     CBT                    Airfield Driving                       ADLS
     CBT                    Contingency Operations                 AFFSA

Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements

10. There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.




BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE

OFFICIAL




                                           JAMES J. JONES, Maj Gen, USAF
                                           Director of Operations




Attachments:
1. 1C7X1 STS




                                          31
                                                 ATTACHMENT 1 - 1C7X1 STS

                           THIS BLOCK IS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY
                                           NAME OF TRAINEE
PRINTED NAME (Last, First, Middle Initial)          INITIALS (Written)    SSAN (last four)

                       PRINTED NAME OF TRAINER, CERTIFYING OFFICIAL AND WRITTEN INITIALS
N/I                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                                 N/I

N/I                                                                                 N/I

N/I                                                                                 N/I

N/I                                                                                 N/I

N/I                                                                                 N/I



                                               QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                                       Proficiency Code Key
                                     Scale
                                                  Definition: The individual
                                     Value
                                       1          Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely Limited)
          TASK                         2          Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      PERFORMANCE                      3          Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
                                                  Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (Highly
          LEVELS                        4
                                                  Proficient)
                                        a         Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
           *TASK                        b         Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
                                                  Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
       KNOWLEDGE                        c
                                                  (Operating Principles)
          LEVELS                       d          Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                       A          Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
        **SUBJECT                      B          Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
       KNOWLEDGE                       C          Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
          LEVELS                       D          Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)

                                                                           Explanations

* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task. (Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a subject common to
several tasks.

- This mark is used to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course. OJT must be provided at the unit/base level.

X This mark is used in the core task column to show that training is required but not given at locations that do not have required equipment.

© This mark denotes an item that requires third party certification.

NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.




                                                                             32
                                                                                                                      4. Proficiency
                                                                                                                      Codes Used To
                                                               3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                    Indicate
                                                 2. Core                                                             Training/Informa
  1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References
                                                  Tasks                                                                tion Provided
                                                           Trng         Trng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    3-Level   7-Level
                                                           Start       Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course



1. Career Progression
   TR: AFI 13-204v1 and 3, CFETP
1.1. Progression in Career Field Ladder
                                                   5                                                                    A          -
     1C7X1
1.2. Duties and positions of AFSCs
                                                   5                                                                    A          -
     1C7-3/5/7/9/0
2. Administrative Management
   TR: AFI 13-204v1 and 3, CMS 13EX00,
   AFI 33-322, AFI 33-360, AFI 33-364
   AFMAN 33-363
2.1. Manpower Utilization                          7                                                                     -        B
2.2. Develop Work Schedule                         7                                                                     -        c
2.3. Utilize Daily Record of Facility
                                                   5                                                                    2b         -
     Operations - AF Form 3616
2.4. Letters of Agreement
     TR: AFI 13-204v3, FAAO 7210.3,                7                                                                     -         -
     AFI 25-201
2.5. Memorandum of Understanding                   5                                                                     -         -
2.6. Memorandum of Agreement                       5                                                                     -         -
2.7. Support Agreement                             5                                                                     -         -
2.8. Office File Plan                              7                                                                     -         -
2.9. File Disposition                              5                                                                     -         -
3. Contingency/Expeditionary
   Operations
   TR: AFDD1, AFI 10-401, AFDD2,
   ETL 04-2, UFC 3- 535-01, AFTTP 3-4.4,
  AFTTP 3-2.68(IP), STANAG 7174
3.1. Air Expeditionary Task Force (AETF)           5                                                                    -          -
3.2. Force Moduling                                5                                                                    A          -
3.3. Base Operation Support                        7                                                                    -          -
3.4. Senior Airport Authority (SAA)                7                                                                    -          -
3.5. Minimum Operating Strip (MOS)                 7                                                                    -          -
3.6. Night Vision Devices (NVD) Ops
                                                   X                                                                     -         -
     TR: TC 21-305-20, AFJMAN 24-306_IP
3.7. Airfield Battle Damage Assessment             7                                                                     -         -
3.8. AM UTC Mission Capability (MISCAP)            7                                                                     -         -
3.9. Airfield Surveys: Types and Purposes
     TR: AMCI 10-202v4, AFI 13-217,
     ETL 09-6, AFI 10-404, AFI 11-235,
     FM 3-04.104, T.O. 00-25-172
3.9.1. Base Support Plan                           7                                                                     -        B
3.9.2. Expeditionary Site Survey                   7                                                                     -        B
3.9.3. Airfield Assessment (CRG)                   7                                                                     -        B
3.9.4. AMC Form 174                                7                                                                     -        B
3.9.5. LZ/DZ/HLZ                                   7                                                                     -        B
3.9.6. ATCALS/DATCALS                              7                                                                     -        B
3.9.7. TERPS                                       7                                                                     -        B
3.9.8. Explosive Siting                            7                                                                     -        B
3.9.9. Flight Check                                7                                                                     -        B
3.9.10. FARP/Hot Refueling                         7                                                                     -        B
4. Support Agencies
   TR: AFI 91-101, AFI 91-202, AFI 38-101,
   AFI 32-1001, AIM, AFI 21-101,
   AFI 31-101, AFECD, AFMAN 91-201,
   AFTTP 3-4.4, AFI 32-10112, AFI 10-207
4.1. Safety
                                                              33
                                                                                                                      4. Proficiency
                                                                                                                      Codes Used To
                                                               3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                    Indicate
                                                 2. Core                                                             Training/Informa
  1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References
                                                  Tasks                                                                tion Provided
                                                           Trng         Trng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    3-Level   7-Level
                                                           Start       Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course



4.1.1. Flight                                      5                                                                    A          -
4.1.2. Ground                                      5                                                                    A          -
4.1.3. Weapons                                     5                                                                    A          -
4.2. Civil Engineering
4.2.1. Engineering Flight                          5                                                                    A          -
4.2.1.1. GeoBase                                   5                                                                    A          -
4.2.2. Operations Flight
4.2.2.1. Operations Support                        5                                                                    A          -
4.2.2.2. Maintenance Engineering                   5                                                                    A          -
4.2.2.3. Electrical                                5                                                                    A          -
4.2.2.4. Pavements/Equipment                       5                                                                    A          -
4.2.2.5. Utilities                                 5                                                                    A          -
4.2.2.6. Structural                                5                                                                    A          -
4.2.2.7. Mechanical                                5                                                                    A          -
4.2.3. Environmental Flight                        5                                                                    A          -
4.2.4. EOD Flight                                  5                                                                    A          -
4.2.5. Fire Protection Flight                      5                                                                    A          -
4.3. Air Traffic Control                           5                                                                    A          -
4.4. Command Post                                  5                                                                    A          -
4.5. Maintenance Operations Center                 5                                                                    A          -
4.6. Transient Alert                               5                                                                    A          -
4.7. Weather                                       5                                                                    A          -
4.8. Security Forces                               5                                                                    A          -
4.9. Airfield Systems                              5                                                                    A          -
5. Communications Systems
   TR: AFI 13-204v3, AFI 33-106,
   FAA 7110.65
5.1. Operate                                       5                                                                   2b          -
5.2. Use Terminology                               5                                                                   2b          -
5.3. Use Phraseology                               5                                                                   2b          -
6. NOTAMS
   TR: AFI 11-208 (IP)
6.1. System                                        5                                                                    A          -
6.2. Criteria                                      5                                                                    A          -
6.3. Graphical                                     5                                                                    A          -
7. Airfield Management Programs
7.1. Airfield Inspection
                                                   5                                                                    A          -
    TR: AFI 13-204v2 and 3
7.2. Airfield Installation Compatibility
    Use Zones Program
                                                   5                                                                    A          -
    TR: AFH 32-7084, AFI 32-7063,
    DODI 4165.57
7.3. Snow and Ice Control Program
    TR: AFI 13-204v3, AFI 32-1002,
     FAA AC 150/5220-20, FAA AC
     150/5200-30, FAA AC 150/5340-26,
     FAAO 6820.10, T.O. 33-1-23
7.3.1. Equipment/Material                          5                                                                    A          -
7.3.2. Removal Techniques                          5                                                                    A          -
7.3.3. Snow and Ice Control Plan                   5                                                                    A          -
7.3.4. Snow Removal Priorities                     5                                                                    A          -
7.3.5. NAVAID Clearances                           5                                                                    A          -
7.3.6. Snow Berm Heights                           5                                                                    A          -




                                                              34
                                                                                                                      4. Proficiency
                                                                                                                      Codes Used To
                                                               3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                    Indicate
                                                 2. Core                                                             Training/Informa
  1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References
                                                  Tasks                                                                tion Provided
                                                           Trng         Trng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    3-Level   7-Level
                                                           Start       Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course



7.4. Bird/Wildlife Aircraft Strike Hazard
     Reduction Program
     TR: AFI 13-204v3, AFPAM 91- 212,
     AFI 91-202; FAA AC 150/5200-33
7.4.1. Active Control                              5                                                                    A         -
7.4.2. Passive Control                             5                                                                    A         -
7.4.3. BASH Plan                                   5                                                                    A         -
7.4.4. Bird Hazard Working Group                   7                                                                    A         -
7.4.5. Bird Watch Conditions (BWC)                 5                                                                    A         -
7.4.6. Bird Strike                                 5                                                                    A         -
7.4.7. Integrated Natural Resource Plan            7                                                                    -         B
7.4.8. Munitions/Weapons Storage                   5                                                                    A         -
7.5. Airfield Driving Program
     TR: AFI 13-213, TC 21-305-20
     AFI 91-203, AFI 21-101
7.5.1. Unit Responsibilities                       5                                                                    A          -
7.5.2. Airfield Management
                                                   5                                                                    A         B
        Responsibilities
7.5.3. Program Development                         7                                                                     -        B
7.5.4. Privately Owned Vehicle and
                                                   5                                                                    A          -
        Government Leased Vehicle Passes
7.5.5. Licensing                                   5                                                                    A          -
7.5.6. Enforcement                                 5                                                                    A          -
7.5.7. Violations
                                                   5                                                                    A         B
       TR: AFI 91-202, AFM 91-223
7.5.8. Airfield Driving Training Program
                                                   X                                                                     -         -
       (ADTP) Database
7.6. Security
     TR: AFI 31-101, AFI 10-701
7.6.1. Specific OPSEC Vulnerabilities of
                                                   5                                                                    A          -
        AFSC 1C7X1
7.6.2. Integrated Defense Plan (IDP)               5                                                                    A          -
7.7. Airfield Driving
     TR: AFI 13-213, TC 21-305-20,
     AFI 91-203, FAA AC 5210-20
7.7.1. Airfield Driving Procedures                 5                                                                    b          -
7.7.2. Controlled Movement Area Procedures         5                                                                    b          -
7.8. Airfield Operations Certification
     Inspection (AOCI)                             5                                                                    A          -
     TR: AFI 13-204v2
8. Airfield Design Criteria
   TR: UFC 3-260-01, AFMAN 32-1084,
   T.O. 00-25-172, ETL 12-11, ETL 09-6,
   AFI 13-217, ETL 09-1, ETL 1110-3-506,
   AC 150/5300-13
8.1. Fixed Wing Runways
8.1.1. Runway Classifications                      5                                                                    A          -
8.1.2. Runway Systems                              5                                                                    A          -
8.1.3. Runway Orientation                          5                                                                    A          -
8.1.4. Orientation/Design Considerations           5                                                                    A          -
8.1.5. Runway Designation                          5                                                                    A          -
8.1.6. Navigational Aids
       TR: AIM, AFI 11-230, FAA AC
       150/5220-16, FAAO 6560.20,
       FAAO 6820.10
8.1.6.1. Non-precision                             5                                                                    A         B

                                                              35
                                                                                                                      4. Proficiency
                                                                                                                      Codes Used To
                                                               3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                    Indicate
                                                 2. Core                                                             Training/Informa
  1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References
                                                  Tasks                                                                tion Provided
                                                           Trng         Trng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    3-Level   7-Level
                                                           Start       Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course



8.1.6.2. Precision                                 5                                                                    A         B
8.1.6.3. Approach Category                         5                                                                    A         B
8.1.6.4. Critical Areas                            5                                                                    A         B
8.1.6.5. Precision Obstacle Free Zone (POFZ)       5                                                                    A         B
8.1.7. Class B Runway Dimensional
                                                   5                                                                    A         B
       Criteria
8.1.8. Class B Runway Shoulders                    5                                                                    A         B
8.1.9. Class B Runway Overruns                     5                                                                    A         B
8.1.10. Class B Runway Grading
                                                   7                                                                     -        B
         requirements
8.1.11. Class B Runway Clear Zones                 5                                                                    A         B
8.1.12. Class B Clear Zone Mandatory
                                                   5                                                                    A         B
         Zone of Frangibility
8.1.13. Accident Potential Zones                   5                                                                    A         B
8.1.14. Imaginary Surfaces
8.1.14.1. Air Force Class B Runway                 5                                                                    A         B
8.1.14.2. Army Class B Runway                      7                                                                    -         B
8.1.15. Objects affecting navigable airspace       5                                                                    A         B
8.1.16. Aircraft Characteristics
8.1.16.1. Aircraft Dimensions                      5                                                                    A         B
8.1.16.2. Turning Capabilities                     5                                                                    A         B
8.1.16.3. Maximum Gross Take-off Weight            5                                                                    A         B
8.1.16.4. Exhaust Temperatures                     5                                                                    A         B
8.1.16.5. Exhaust Velocities                       5                                                                    A         B
8.2. Rotary Wing Facilities
8.2.1. Helipads                                    5                                                                    A         B
8.2.2. Helipad Dimensional Criteria                5                                                                    A         B
8.2.3. Helipad Shoulders                           5                                                                    A         B
8.2.4. Helipad Grading Requirements                5                                                                    -         B
8.2.5. Helipad Clear Zones                         5                                                                    A         B
8.2.6. Helipad Accident Potential Zones            5                                                                    A         B
8.2.7. Helipad Imaginary Surfaces                  5                                                                    A         B
8.3. Unmanned Aerial System (UAS)                  7                                                                    A         -
8.4. Landing Zones (LZ)
8.4.1. Site Planning for LZs                       5                                                                    A         B
8.4.2. Siting Considerations                       5                                                                    -         B
8.4.3. LZ Dimensional Criteria                     5                                                                    A         B
8.4.4. LZ Grading Requirements                     5                                                                    -         B
8.4.5. Clear Zones                                 5                                                                    A         B
8.4.6. LZ Imaginary Surfaces                       5                                                                    A         B
8.5. Taxiways
8.5.1. Fixed Wing Taxiway                          5                                                                    A         B
8.5.2. Rotary Wing Taxiway                         5                                                                    A         B
8.5.3. LZ Taxiway                                  5                                                                    A         B
8.6. Aprons and Other Pavements
8.6.1. Fixed-Wing Aircraft Parking Apron
8.6.1.1. Taxilanes                                 5                                                                    A         B
8.6.1.2. Aircraft Turning Capabilities             5                                                                    A         B
8.6.1.3. Departure Sequencing                      5                                                                    A         B
8.6.1.4. Minimum Standoff Distances                5                                                                    A         B
8.6.1.5. Other Pavements
8.6.1.5.1. Warm-up Pad                             5                                                                    A         B
8.6.1.5.2. Power Check Pad                         5                                                                    A         B
8.6.1.5.3. Arm/Disarm Pad                          5                                                                    A         B
8.6.1.5.4. Compass Calibration Pad                 5                                                                    A         B

                                                              36
                                                                                                                      4. Proficiency
                                                                                                                      Codes Used To
                                                               3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                    Indicate
                                                 2. Core                                                             Training/Informa
  1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References
                                                  Tasks                                                                tion Provided
                                                           Trng         Trng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    3-Level   7-Level
                                                           Start       Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course



8.6.1.5.5. Hazardous Cargo Pad                     5                                                                    A         B
8.6.1.5.6. Alert Pad                               5                                                                    A         B
8.6.1.5.7. Aircraft Wash Rack                      5                                                                    A         B
8.6.1.5.8. Hangar Access Apron                     5                                                                    A         B
8.6.2. Rotary-Wing Aircraft Parking
       Apron
8.6.2.1. Army Parking Apron Layout                 7                                                                     -        B
8.6.2.2. Air Force Parking Apron Layout            7                                                                     -        B
8.6.2.3. Rotary-Wing Parking Apron
                                                   7                                                                     -        B
         Considerations
8.6.3. Aircraft Parking Plans                      7                                                                    A         -
8.6.4. Develop Parking Plans                       7                                                                    -         b
9. Airfield Safety
   TR: AFI 13-204v3, AFI 91-202,
   AFI 91-204
9.1. Hazardous Cargo Classifications
                                                   5                                                                    A         B
     TR: AFJI 11-204
9.2. Hazardous Conditions on Airfield
     TR: AFI 91-203,
    T.O. 00-25-172, T.O. 42B-1-1-18,
    ETL 07-3, AFMAN 91-201,
    UFC 3-260-01
9.2.1. Fuel Spills                                 5                                                                    A          -
9.2.2. Hydrazine Leaks                             5                                                                    A          -
9.2.3. Jet Blast/Engine Runs                       5                                                                    A          -
9.2.4. Jettison Areas                              5                                                                    A          -
9.2.5. ARM/DE-ARM Ops                              5                                                                    A          -
9.2.6. Explosives Safety                           5                                                                    A          -
9.2.7. Jet Blast Effects                           5                                                                    A          -
9.2.8. Reduced Visibility                          5                                                                    A          -
9.2.9. Fuel Servicing Safety Zone                  5                                                                    A          -
9.2.10. Engine Intake Danger Areas                 5                                                                    A          -
9.2.11. Rotor/Blade Safety Zones                   5                                                                    A          -
10. Airfield Resource Protection
    TR: AFI 31-101, AFI 13-207
10.1. Protection Level Resources                   5                                                                    A          -
10.2. Physical Security                            5                                                                    A          -
11. Pavements
    TR: AFI 32-1041, ETL 02-19,
    ETL 08-1, ETL 04-9,UFC 3-260-02, UFC 3-
  260-03, UFC 3-270-01, UFC 3-270-04, UFC 3-
  270-05, UFC 3-270-06, STANAG 7131
11.1. Pavement Types                               5                                                                    A         B
11.2. Pavement Condition Index (PCI)               7                                                                    a         c
11.3. Interpret Airfield Pavement
                                                   7                                                                    a         c
      Structural Evaluation
11.4. Interpret Aircraft Classification
      Number (ACN)/Pavement                        5                                                                    a         c
      Classification Number (PCN)
11.5. Interpret Runway Friction
                                                   7                                                                    a         c
      Characteristic Evaluation
11.6. Expedient Pavement Repairs
                                                   7                                                                     -        B
      methods/materials




                                                              37
                                                                                                                      4. Proficiency
                                                                                                                      Codes Used To
                                                               3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                    Indicate
                                                 2. Core                                                             Training/Informa
  1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References
                                                  Tasks                                                                tion Provided
                                                           Trng         Trng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    3-Level   7-Level
                                                           Start       Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course



12. Airfield Markings
    TR: AFI 32-1042, ETL 04-2, FAA AC
   150/5340-1, FAA AC 150/5345-39,
    ICAO Annex 14v1 and 2,
   STANAG 3158, STANAG 3711,
    AIM, AFI 11-230, AFI 13-217, ETL 09-6
12.1. Runway Markings                              5                                                                    A         B
12.2. Taxiway Markings                             5                                                                    A         B
12.3. Apron Markings                               5                                                                    A         B
12.4. Helipad Markings                             5                                                                    A         B
12.5. Visual Hold Line                             5                                                                    A         B
12.6. Instrument Hold Lines                        5                                                                    A         B
12.7. Threshold Markings
12.7.1. Permanent Displaced Threshold              5                                                                    A         B
12.7.2. Temporary Displaced Threshold              5                                                                    A         B
12.8. Temporary Markings                           5                                                                    A         B
12.9. Closed Surface Markings                      5                                                                    A         B
12.10. Minimum Operating Strips (MOS)              7                                                                    A         B
12.11. Landing Zones                               7                                                                    A         B
13. Airfield Lighting TR: AFI 32-1044,
  AFI 13-204v3, AFI 32-1024, AFI 32-1042,
  AFI 32-1043, AFI 11-230 FLIPs, UFC 3-
  535-01, FAA AC 150/5340-30,
 FAA AC 150/5345-43/44/46, ETL 11- 23, ETL
  04-2, ETL 11-27, UFC 3-260-01, FAAO
  6850.5, ICAO Annex 14, STANAG 3316,
  STANAG 3346, STANAG 7079, AFI 13-217
13.1. Visual Facilities Requirements               5                                                                    A         B
13.2. Frangible Fixtures                           5                                                                    A         B
13.3. Approach                                     5                                                                    A         B
13.4. Approach Light Planes                        5                                                                    A         B
13.5. Instrument Critical Area/Traffic
                                                   5                                                                    A         B
      Control Light Systems On Airfield
13.6. Runway                                       5                                                                    A         B
13.7. Taxiway                                      5                                                                    A         B
13.8. Rotating Beacon                              5                                                                    A         B
13.9. Wind Cones                                   5                                                                    A         B
13.10. Runway Guard Lights (RGL)                   5                                                                    A         B
13.11. PAPI                                        5                                                                    A         B
13.12. Obstruction Lights                          5                                                                    A         B
13.13. Helipad                                     5                                                                    A         B
13.14. NATO
13.14.1. Approach Lighting                         5                                                                    A         B
13.14.2. Runway Lighting                           5                                                                    A         B
13.14.3. Taxiway Lighting                          5                                                                    A         B
13.15. ICAO
13.15.1. Approach Lighting                         5                                                                    A         B
13.15.2. Runway Lighting                           5                                                                    A         B
13.15.3. Taxiway Lighting                          5                                                                    A         B
13.16. Contingency
13.16.1. Approach Lighting                         5                                                                    A         B
13.16.2. Runway Lighting                           5                                                                    A         B
13.16.3. Landing Zone Lighting                     5                                                                    A         B
13.16.4. Expeditionary Airfield
                                                   5                                                                    A         B
         Lighting System (EALS)

                                                              38
                                                                                                                          4. Proficiency
                                                                                                                          Codes Used To
                                                               3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                        Indicate
                                                 2. Core                                                                 Training/Informa
  1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References
                                                  Tasks                                                                    tion Provided
                                                           Trng         Trng       Trainee    Trainer        Certifier    3-Level   7-Level
                                                           Start       Complete    Initials   Initials        Initials    Course    Course



13.16.5. Solar Lights                              7                                                                        A          -
14. Airfield Signs
    TR: UFC 3-535-01, ICAO Annex 14,
   FAA AC 150/5345-44
14.1. Mandatory                                    5                                                                        A         B
14.2. Information/Guidance                         5                                                                        A         B
14.3. Runway Distance Markers (RDM)                5                                                                        A         B
14.4. Arresting Gear Markers (AGM)                 5                                                                        A         B
14.5. Traffic Control                              5                                                                        A         B
15. Aircraft Arresting Systems
    TR: AFI 32-1043, FAA AC 150/5220-22,
   STANAG 3697
15.1. Types (MAAS, BAKS)                           5                                                                         -        B
15.2. Components                                   5                                                                         -        B
15.3. Certifications                               5                                                                         -        B
16. Airfield Waivers
    TR: AFI 13-204v3, UFC 3-260- 01,
    AFI 32-7063, AFH 32-7084, AFI 11-218
    AFI 32-1042, UFC 3-535-01
16.1. Airspace Criteria Waivers
16.1.1. Exemptions                                 5                                                                        A         C
16.1.2. Permanent Waivers                          5                                                                        A         C
16.1.3. Temporary Waivers                          5                                                                        A         C
16.2. Building Restriction Line                    5                                                                        A         B
16.3. Pavement Weight Bearing Waivers              5                                                                        A         C
16.4. Marking Waivers                              5                                                                        A         B
16.5. Lighting Waivers                             5                                                                        A         B
16.6. Waiverable Support Facilities                5                                                                        A         C
16.7. Permissible Deviations                       5                                                                        A         C
16.8. Frangibility Requirements                    5                                                                        A         C
16.9. AICUZ Deviation                              5                                                                        A         C
16.10. Wingtip Clearance                           5                                                                        A         C
17. Airfield Inspection
    TR: AFI 13-204v3, UFC 3-260-01,
    UFC 3-535-01, UFC 3-270-05/06,
    AFI 32-7063, AFH 32-7084,
    AFI 32-1044, AFPAM 92-212,
    ICAO Annex 14,
    NATO BI-MNCD 85-5, STANAG 7131,
    FAA AC 150/5370-2, FAAO 8260,
    FAAO 6850.5, FAR Part 139
17.1. Inspecting AICUZ Criteria
17.1.1. Lateral Clearance Zone                     5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.1.2. Clear Zone                                 5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.1.3. Accident Potential Zone I                  5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.1.4. Accident Potential Zone II                 5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.2. Inspecting Imaginary Surfaces
17.2.1. Primary Surface                            5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.2.2. Approach/Departure                         5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.2.3. Transitional                               5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.2.4. Inner Horizontal                           5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.2.5. Conical                                    5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.2.6. Outer Horizontal                           5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.2.7. Runway Mandatory Zone of Frangibility      5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.2.8. Taxiway Lateral Clearance                  5                                                     ©                  b         c


                                                              39
                                                                                                                          4. Proficiency
                                                                                                                          Codes Used To
                                                               3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                        Indicate
                                                 2. Core                                                                 Training/Informa
  1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References
                                                  Tasks                                                                    tion Provided
                                                           Trng         Trng       Trainee    Trainer        Certifier    3-Level   7-Level
                                                           Start       Complete    Initials   Initials        Initials    Course    Course



17.2.9. Apron Lateral Clearance                    5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.2.10. Perimeter/Access Roads                    5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.2.11. Construction Areas                        5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.3. Inspecting Pavement
      TR: UFC 3-270-08, ETL 04-10
17.3.1. Pavement Distresses                        5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.3.2. FOD                                        5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.3.3. Rubber Deposits                            5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.3.4. Faded/Obscure Markings                     5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.3.5. Paint Build-up Markings                    5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.3.6. Chipping Markings                          5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.4. Inspecting Airfield Lighting Systems
17.4.1. Approach Lighting                          5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.4.2. Approach Light Plane                       5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.4.3. Runway Lighting                            5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.4.4. Taxiway Lighting                           5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.4.5. Signage                                    5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.4.6. Wind Cones                                 5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.4.7. Rotating Beacon                            5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.4.8. PAPI                                       5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.4.9. Obstruction Lights                         5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.4.10. Helipad Lighting                          5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.4.11. Runway Guard Lights (RGL)                 5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.5. Inspecting Aircraft Arresting Systems
      TR: AFI 32-1043
17.5.1. Cable Tension                              5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.5.2. Pendant Support                            5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.5.3. Rope Tie Downs                             5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.5.4. Barrier Impact Pad                         5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.5.5. Tape sweep/critical areas                  5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.5.6. Deck sheave height/slope                   5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.6. Inspecting Construction Areas
17.6.1. Parking                                    5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.6.2. Rules Compliance                           5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.6.3. Site Lighting/Marking                      5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.6.4. Storage                                    5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.6.5. Vehicles Lighted/Marked                    5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.6.6. FOD Control                                5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.7. Inspecting Habitat Management
      TR: AFI 91-202, AFP 91-212
17.7.1. Grass Height                               5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.7.2. Ponding                                    5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.7.3. Bird/Animal Survey                         5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.7.4. BASH Condition                             5                                                     ©                  b         c
17.8. Inspect Airfield
17.8.1. Conduct Airfield Inspection                5                                                     ©                  b         c
18. Airfield Checks
    TR: AFI 13-204v3
18.1. Conduct Airfield Check
18.1.1. Foreign Object Damage (FOD)                5                                                     ©                  b         c
18.1.2. Wildlife/Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard
                                                   5                                                     ©                  b         c
        (BASH)
18.1.3. Lighting                                   5                                                     ©                  b         c
18.1.4. Airfield Construction Areas                5                                                     ©                  b         c


                                                              40
                                                                                                                          4. Proficiency
                                                                                                                          Codes Used To
                                                               3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                        Indicate
                                                 2. Core                                                                 Training/Informa
  1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References
                                                  Tasks                                                                    tion Provided
                                                           Trng         Trng       Trainee    Trainer        Certifier    3-Level   7-Level
                                                           Start       Complete    Initials   Initials        Initials    Course    Course



18.1.5. In-flight Emergency (IFE) and
                                                   5                                                     ©                  a          -
        Ground Emergency (GE)
18.1.6. Wide Body Aircraft                         5                                                     ©                  a          -
18.1.7. Severe Weather                             5                                                     ©                  a          -
18.1.8. Runway Surface Condition (RSC)
        TR: AFTO 33-1-23, ICAO Doc 4444,           5                                                     ©                  b          -
        ICAO Circular 329
18.1.9. Runway Condition Reading
        (RCR)/Equipment types and
        procedures                                 5                                                     ©                  A          -
        TR: AFTO 33-1-23,
        AFI 13-204v3, FIH
18.1.9.1. Conduct RCR                              X                                                     ©                  a          -
19. Process NOTAM
   TR: AFI 11-208_IP, ICAO Annex 15
   Ch5, FAAO 8126 Ch4, FAAO 7910,
19.1. Process NOTAMs
19.1.1. New                                        5                                                                       2b          -
19.1.2. Replacement                                5                                                                       2b          -
19.1.3. Cancel                                     5                                                                       2b          -
19.2. Coordinate                                   5                                                                       2b          -
20. Coordinate Airfield Repair Activities/
    Facilities Maintenance
    TR: AFI 13-204v3, UFC 3-270-07,
    AFI 32-1001, AFI 32-1021, AFI 32-1032
20.1. Document                                     5                                                                        a         c
20.2. Report Discrepancies                         5                                                                        a         c
20.3. Track                                        5                                                                        a         c
20.4. Lighting Outages                             5                                                                        -         -
20.5. NAVAID Outages                               5                                                                        -         -
20.6. Airfield Marking Deficiencies                5                                                                        -         -
21. Joint Inspections
    TR: AFI 13-204v2 and 3
21.1. Joint Airfield Inspections                   7                                                                         -        B
21.2. Annual Airfield Certification/Safety
                                                   7                                                                         -        B
      Inspection
21.3. Waiver Review                                7                                                                         -        B
22. Airfield Safety Management
    TR: AFI 13-204v3, AFI 91-202,
    AFI 91-204
22.1. Risk Management (RM)
                                                   5                                                                        A         C
      TR: AFI 90-901, UFC 3-260-01
22.2. Risk Assessment Codes (RAC)
                                                   7                                                                        A         C
      TR: UFC 3-260-01
22.3. USAF Hazard Report (HR)                      5                                                                        A         C
22.4. Hazardous Air Traffic Report
                                                   5                                                                        A         C
      (HATR)
22.5. High Accident Potential
                                                   7                                                                        A         C
      (HAP)
22.6. Hazard Abatement Plan                        7                                                                        A         C
23. Airfield Mishap Management
    TR: AFM 91-223, AFP 91-211,
    AFI 91-204, AFI 91-202, AFI 91-206_IP
23.1. Aircraft Mishap Management                   7                                                                        A         C
23.2. Mishap Categories (A,B,C,D,E)                7                                                                        A         C
23.3. Safety Investigation Boards (SIB)            7                                                                        A         C

                                                              41
                                                                                                                      4. Proficiency
                                                                                                                      Codes Used To
                                                               3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                    Indicate
                                                 2. Core                                                             Training/Informa
  1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References
                                                  Tasks                                                                tion Provided
                                                           Trng         Trng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    3-Level   7-Level
                                                           Start       Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course



23.4. Accident Investigation Board (AIB)           7                                                                    A         C
24. Airfield Sustainment
    TR: AFPAM 32-1125v1, AFI 32-1001,
    AFI 32-1021, AFI 32-1032,
    AFI 65-601v 1-3
24.1. AF IMT 332 Process                           5                                                                    A          -
24.2. Work Order Review Board                      5                                                                    -          -
24.3. Integrated Priority List                     5                                                                    -          -
24.4. Facility Working Group                       5                                                                    -          -
24.5. Facility Board                               5                                                                    -          -
25. Airfield Construction
    TR: AFI 13-204v3, UFC 3-260-01,
    AFI 32-1021, AFI 65-601, AFI 32-1032,
     FAA AC 150/5370-2
25.1. Programming/Funding                          7                                                                    -         B
25.2. Design Reviews                               7                                                                    -         B
25.3. Contract Specifications                      7                                                                    -         B
25.4. Construction Phasing Plan                    7                                                                    -         B
25.5. Construction Safety Plan                     7                                                                    A         B
25.6. Pre-Construction Meetings                    7                                                                    -         B
25.7. Construction Monitoring                      7                                                                    A         B
25.8. Construction Acceptance                      7                                                                    -         B
25.9. Base Comprehensive Plan-Airfield             7                                                                    -         B
26. Coordinate Airfield Operations Support
    TR: AFI 13-204v3, AFI 10-1801,
    AFI 13-202
26.1. Transient Services                           5                                                                   2b          -
26.2. Airfield Sweeping                            5                                                                   2b          -
26.3. Power Production                             5                                                                   2b          -
26.4. Airfield Lighting                            5                                                                   2b          -
26.5. Distinguished Visitors                       5                                                                   2b          -
26.6. Aero Medical Evacuation                      5                                                                   2b          -
26.7. Hazardous Cargo
                                                   5                                                                   2b          -
      TR: AFJI 11-204
26.8. Customs/Agriculture/Immigration              5                                                                    a          -
26.9. Overdue Aircraft                             5                                                                   2b          -
26.10. No Flight Plan Arrivals                     5                                                                   2b          -
26.11. Foreign Aircraft (ALAN)                     5                                                                    a          -
26.12. Presidential Support                        5                                                                    a          -
26.13. Wildlife/BASH                               5                                                                   2b          -
26.14. Disseminate Weather Advisories,
       Watches, Warnings
                                                   5                                                                   2b          -
       TR: Base Weather Support Plan,
       AFMAN 15-111
26.15. Arresting System Certification
        TR: AFI 32-1043, AFMAN 32-1084,            7                                                                    a          -
        AFTO 35E- 8-2-10-1, STANAG 3697
27. Civil Aircraft Use of USAF
    Installations
    TR: AFI 10-1001, AFI 10-1002, AFI
   10-1003, AFI 10-1801, AFI 13-204v3,
    AFM 34-232
27.1. Landing Permits                              5                                                                    A         B
27.2. Unauthorized Landings                        5                                                                    A         B
27.3. Civil Fly-Ins                                7                                                                    -         B
27.4. Assess fee                                   7                                                                    -         b

                                                              42
                                                                                                                      4. Proficiency
                                                                                                                      Codes Used To
                                                               3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                    Indicate
                                                 2. Core                                                             Training/Informa
  1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References
                                                  Tasks                                                                tion Provided
                                                           Trng         Trng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    3-Level   7-Level
                                                           Start       Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course



27.5. Military Aero Club                           5                                                                     -         -
28. Open House
    TR: AFI 10-1004, AFI 11-209
28.1. Operational Criteria                         7                                                                     -        B
28.2. Waivers                                      7                                                                     -        B
29. Impose Airfield Restrictions
    TR: AFI 13-204v3
29.1. Prior Permission Required (PPR)              5                                                                   2b          -
29.2. Official Business Only (OBO)                 5                                                                   2b          -
29.3. Closure                                      5                                                                   2b          -
29.4. Quiet Hours                                  5                                                                   2b          -
29.5. Suspend Ops                                  5                                                                   2b          -
29.6. Resume Ops                                   5                                                                   2b          -
30. Emergency Management
    TR: AFJI 11-204, AFI 13-204v3,
    AFI 10-2501
30.1. Primary Crash Alarm System
                                                   5                                                                    A          -
    (PCAS)/Secondary Crash Networks (SCN)
30.2. Utilize PCAS/SCN                             5                                                                   2b          -
30.3. Alternate Crash Phone Systems                5                                                                    -          -
30.4. Plot Grid Maps: Cordon/Entry
      Control Points (ECP)/Traffic
                                                   5                                                                   2b          -
      Control Points (TCP)/Point of
      Impact (POI)
30.5. Interpret Contingency Plans                  5                                                                    a         b
30.6. Develop Quick Reaction Checklists
                                                   7                                                                     -        c
      (QRC)
30.7. Use QRC's                                    5                                                                   2b          -
30.8. Emergency Command and Control                7                                                                   A           -
30.9. Evacuation/Alternate Facility                5                                                                    -          -
31. National Airspace System
31.1. Air Traffic Control Structure
                                                   5                                                                    A          -
      TR: FAAO 7110.65, AIM
31.2. General Flight Rules
      TR: AFI 11-202v3, FAR Part 71,               5                                                                    A          -
      FAR Part 91
32. Flight Planning Room
32.1. Requirements
                                                   5                                                                    A          -
     TR: AFI 13-204v3
32.2. Inspect                                      5                                                                    b          -
33. Flight Information Publications
   (FLIPs), Aeronautical Charts, And
    Related Aerospace Products
    TR: AFI 11-201, AFI 13-204v3, GP
33.1. Requirements                                 7                                                                    -         B
33.2. Requisition                                  7                                                                    -         B
33.3. Process Changes                              5                                                                    -         -
33.4. General/Area Planning                        5                                                                    A         -
33.5. Foreign Clearance Guide (FCG)                5                                                                    A         -
33.6. Aeronautical Information Manual
                                                   5                                                                    A          -
        (AIM)
33.7. Terminal Approach/Departure
                                                   5                                                                    A          -
       Procedures
33.8. DAFIF                                        5                                                                   A           -
33.9. Interpret Enroute Supplement                 5                                                                   2b          -
33.10. Interpret Enroute Charts                    5                                                                   2b          -

                                                              43
                                                                                                                      4. Proficiency
                                                                                                                      Codes Used To
                                                               3. OJT Task Certification Documentation                    Indicate
                                                 2. Core                                                             Training/Informa
  1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References
                                                  Tasks                                                                tion Provided
                                                           Trng         Trng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    3-Level   7-Level
                                                           Start       Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course



33.11. Interpret Location Identifiers              5                                                                   2b          -
33.12. Interpret Aeronautical Charts               5                                                                   2b          -
33.13. Contractions                                5                                                                   A           -
33.14. Flight Information Handbook                 5                                                                   A           -
34. Aircraft Inventory
    TR: AFJI 16-401_IP, AFPAM 10-1403,
    AFMAN 32-1084
34.1. MDS Designations
34.1.1. DOD Aircraft                               5                                                                    A          -
34.1.2. Civil Aircraft                             5                                                                    A          -
34.1.3. Foreign Aircraft                           5                                                                    A          -
35. Flight Plans
    TR: AFJM 11-213, AFI 11-202v3,
    AFI 11-255v3, AFI 13-1AOCv3, FLIP,
   FCG, AIM, GP, AP, FAAO 7110.10,
    ICAO Doc 4444, ICAO Annex 10,
    DoDD 4500.54E
35.1. Flight Plan Forms                            5                                                                   A           -
35.2. TACC IFM Package                             5                                                                   A           -
35.3. Air Tasking Order                            5                                                                   A           -
35.4. Review Flight Plans                          5                                                                   2b          -
35.5. Process Flight Data
35.5.1. Flight Plans                               5                                                                   2b          -
35.5.2. Departure Message                          5                                                                   2b          -
35.5.3. Arrival Message                            5                                                                   2b          -
35.5.4. Amendment Message                          5                                                                   2b          -
35.5.5. Remove Strip                               5                                                                   2b          -
35.5.6. Change Message                             5                                                                   2b          -




                                                              44
